DRN-3765861
The complaint
Mr H says Wealth Concierge Limited (WCL) trading as 246 Financial Planning advised him 
to invest in a loan note with Dolphin Trust (now the German Property Group) using proceeds 
from a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum he obtained through an earlier transfer of his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. He says the investment wasnt suitable.
Mr H is represented by Right Side Financial Services Ltd (RSFS).
What happened
Mr H says his contact was with a Mr Z, an adviser at BD Veritas Protect Ltd (which was a 
trading name of WCL between June 2017 and March 2020).
WCL says Mr Z was a self-employed consultant making recommendations on life and critical 
illness protection primarily to business owners. It said hed completed its internal 
competency tests and his work was overseen by one of its Directors.
WCL says Mr H wouldve initially been in contact with Mr Z because he was interested in 
services to his business. It materialised that he had a pension which he wanted advice on. It 
says as it didnt have permissions from the Financial Conduct Authority to provide pension or 
investment advice, it introduced him to other firms who were qualified to help him.
WCL says it tried to assist Mr H by referring him to Selecta Pension Bureau Services (SPBS) 
around April 2017 and around August 2017 to O&M Pension Solutions (O&M). Ultimately 
neither would assist Mr H because each required the introducing firm to hold pension and 
investment permissions.
Mr H says that after this:
Mr Z continued dealing with me and introduced me to Brunel & Lewis [Insurance Advisors, 
Agents & Sub-Agents Ltd] who eventually took everything on and passed it on to [another 
firm]..When [my OPS benefits were] finally transferred to Forthplus I took out the 25% Draw-
down and invested £45,000 of that money with Mr Z who was working for BD Veritas. He set 
it up for me to invest this money in the Dolphin Trust.
Mr Hs OPS benefits worth around £252,000 were transferred to his new Forthplus Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) on 24 January 2018. He withdrew about £63,000 (his 
TFC) on the same day. By the end of the month he had invested £45,000 of his TFC into a 
loan note with Dolphin Trust. His residual funds were invested via his SIPP in a range of 
funds.
Whilst the advice to transfer Mr Hs OPS was provided by a third party business or 
businesses, he says WCL referred him to Brunel & Lewis (B&L) which in turn used the 
services of a firm called Omega Financial Services Ltd to provide pension advice. He also 
maintains WCL was involved in the investment of his TFC into Dolphin Trust.
WCL says it only referred Mr H to SPBS and O&M, not any other firm. Nor was it 
remunerated for any such referral. It says it only became aware of the involvement of B&L 
after it received the complaint from RSFS.
Mr H and his representative refute this claim. Theyve provided evidence in the form of 
communications between Mr H and Mr Z which they assert shows WCL was involved in his 
investment in a loan note with Dolphin Trust.
The Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said there wasnt any 
evidence WCL had entered into an agreement with Mr H for the provision of advice, nor was 
there any documentation setting out such, nor that it received any fees for carrying out work 
for him. 
RSFS disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It said:
given the limited but clear evidence that Mr Z was involved with the investments whilst a 
Director of BD Veritas nee 246 Financial, Wealth Concierge and another fund management 
company [P]Whilst the current Directors assert that they were not involved it is evident that 
they should have been aware of their colleagues other investment business [P]
Mr H has provided copies of emails and texts from Mr Z which again supports a view that he 
was involved with the Dolphin transaction. Unfortunately the German liquidators will not 
provide any information to individual claimants only institutional creditors
 The co-Directors of BD Veritas, 246 Financial and wealth concierge could not reasonably 
be deemed unaware of their co Directors activities with [P] and must therefore be complicit.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Hs complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by WCL for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like WCL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
After WCL had referred Mr H to SPBS around April 2017 and to O&M in August 2017, 
theres no further documentation to show it made referrals to other businesses. I note he 
says Mr Z introduced him to B&L, which in turn involved yet another business.
Even if Mr Z was acting for WCL at this time - and theres no compelling evidence showing 
this was the case - it seems to me culpability for what then happened wouldve been too far 
removed from WCL in any event. I say this because it seems clear that either B&L or 
another firm it used, provided Mr H with the advice to transfer his OPS pension. 
In doing so it was these firms that shouldve been aware of the obligations they operated 
under. For example, at the time of the advice COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewhether to transfera firm should start by assuming that a transferwill not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best interests.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about 
SIPPs. For example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, 
then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
The advising firm shouldve been aware, if Mr H had informed it of such, of his intention to 
invest in Dolphin Trust.
These regulations, and many others, had to be adhered to by the firm(s) giving Mr H the 
advice. I understand Mr H has an ongoing claim against B&L.
Further, Mr Hs ceding OPS and Forthplus as the SIPP provider wouldve been required to 
carry out due diligence on the transaction. They wouldve sought to be assured that hed 
received appropriate regulated advice about the transfer. The firm responsible for that advice 
will appear on the appropriate documentation.
Mr H also maintains WCL was involved in the investment of his TFC into Dolphin Trust. But 
the documentary evidence on file, including the email messages between Mr H and WCL do 
not indicate that it provided a personal recommendation to invest into Dolphin Trust.
As the Investigator noted, there isnt a client agreement, point of sale documentation or a 
recommendations report exchanged between Mr H and WCL in respect of the matters he 
complains about. I think its more likely than not this is because its only involvement with him 
was to make two ultimately unsuccessful referrals to other firms. And it did this because it 
didnt have the authority to deal in pension and investment matters.WCL says it wasnt remunerated for any of the referrals made. And Mr H hasnt been able to 
show he paid a fee to WCL for the matters hes complained about.
Mr H has supplied several documents, including emails which he says show he was still in 
touch with Mr Z between 2018 and around March 2020. These focus largely on his concerns 
about B&L and the performance of his SIPP. The communications are sporadic and show Mr 
H reaching out for support and information.
Mr H has shown he remained in contact with Mr Z after the transaction he complains about 
had taken place. He has also shown that Mr Z was using his BD Veritas business details. 
This Service asked WCL when its association with Mr Z and BD Veritas ended. It told us:
WCL ceased the association with [Mr Z] trading as BD Veritas Protect at the end of August 
2017. This was done verbally. I am unsure as to what evidence could be provided except 
that as noted below we did not write any further business with [Mr Z] in his own name or that 
of BD Veritas Protect.
I note that the FCA register states an effective end date of the trading name BD Veritas 
Protect as 26th March 2020. Unfortunately this was an administrative oversight in respect of 
updating the register. WCL did not receive any further life insurance business introductions 
from BD Veritas Protect / [Mr Z] after the end of August 2017. No further new business was 
written.
The relationship was ended as it was not commercially viable for WCL. The association was 
ended mutually.
This Service asked WCL to explain the ongoing contact between BD Veritas and Mr H after 
August 2017, when it said its relationship had ended. WCL said:
Contact between Mr Z and Mr H] after August 2017 is of no business of WCL. WCL's 
relationship with those parties had ceased. FOS provided copies of emails between [them] 
following the complaint being referredThe emails have no reference to WCL in them 
neither in the body or indeed the email signature.
WCLs position isnt cast-iron. The FCA register does show BD Veritas as one of its active 
trading names until March 2020. It says this was an administrative oversight and that no 
further business was written by Mr Z or that firm under its authority. The difficultly is that 
there are communications from Mr Z to Mr H using those business details.
On balance, Ive decided that this matter isnt material to the outcome here. I say this 
because the responses Ive seen from Mr Z to Mr H after August 2017 arent telling. For 
example he directs Mr H to discuss matters with the relevant independent adviser. And he 
provides some assurance in respect of a statement hed received from his SIPP provider. 
Further, as Ive mentioned previously, theres no evidence of Mr H having an agreement with 
Mr Z for the provision of advice, no evidence of him making any recommendations to him 
and no evidence of Mr H paying for such.
RSFS notes that Mr Z was the Director of [P]. It says WCL shouldve been aware of this 
because it raised potential conflicts of interest. It says he had a central role in the Dolphin 
Trust investment. 
In responding WCL said:
Having looked at the Companies House website, I am now aware that [Mr Z] is a director of 
[P]. This company was incorporated on 22nd August 2018, almost a year after parting 
company with WCL. WCL had no knowledge of any such companies that [Mr Z] may or may not have formed following the cessation of his association with WCL. WCL were not aware 
of any conflicts of interest or governance issues.
While Mr H has shown Mr Z was the Director of a business which appears to be providing 
services relating to investment, it was incorporated in August 2018. This was several months 
after Mr H had made his Dolphin Trust investment. And he hasnt produced evidence 
showing WCLs involvement in that recommendation.
Based on the information Ive seen it wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold this complaint 
against Wealth Concierge Limited.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman