DRN-2954884
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Broadgate Financial Management 
LLP (Broadgate) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In late 2016, Mr H contacted Broadgate for advice on his pension. They completed some of 
the initial paperwork for Mr H, but as they didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on a 
pension transfer they referred him to another firm (Firm B) for advice. Mr H was advised by 
Firm B to transfer his DB benefits to a SIPP. After the transfer, Broadgate became the 
ongoing adviser on Mr Hs pension plan.
Mr H complained both to Broadgate and Firm B in 2019 about the advice he received. He 
said he wasnt given all the relevant information to make a suitably informed decision and 
that neither firm explained all the risks and disadvantages of a transfer. Broadgate said they 
didnt provide Mr H with any advice.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint 
but didnt uphold it. He didnt think Broadgates actions caused Mr Hs losses.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is Firm B. They were the firm who had the 
relevant permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr H could not have transferred his DB pension without 
Firm Bs advice.
I considered both complaints against Broadgate and Firm B. I considered whether Broadgate 
should be held responsible for Mr Hs losses here in some form, however I dont think they 
should. I upheld the complaint against Firm B in full.
Mr H says Broadgate told him he could use tax free cash from his new pension to pay for 
better quality fixtures and fittings for a home improvement and they made it sound like a nice 
idea. He says they made it sound all positive. I appreciate Broadgate might have been 
speaking positively about transferring out. They became the ongoing advisers on Mr Hs 
pension straight away and were charging ongoing advice fees. So they may have been 
hoping Mr H would transfer. Ive also considered the possibility that Broadgate inadvertently 
strayed into advice, even though I havent seen any evidence to say that this is what 
happened. However, even if they did, in my view none of their interactions with Mr H and 
possible failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered.
Mr Hs representatives say Broadgate and Firm B should both be liable for his losses. They 
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They 
say Broadgate failed to act in Mr Hs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly 
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
Broadgate did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so 
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr H not to transfer. I think there was nothing 
generally wrong with referring Mr H on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension.
Mr Hs representatives say Broadgate referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr H with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr H to transfer Firm B should, as the experts in this field, have
clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any
discussions with Broadgate would have likely made Mr H go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was Firm Bs positive recommendation that caused Mr H to 
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer. 
I dont think Mr Hs potential losses here are caused by Broadgates actions and so I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman