DRN-3919738
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr M bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in January 2019. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr M alleges that 
the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel system 
would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be self-funding in the way Mr M 
says he was led to believe. So the investigator did not think a misrepresentation had taken 
place.
Mr M disagreed. He reiterated (through his representatives) that he was told verbally the 
benefits provided by the system would cover his monthly finance payments. He added that 
based on his financial circumstances at the time, he would not have agreed to worsen his 
financial position. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr M was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents. 
The first part of the order form shows the supplier set out that the annual benefit Mr M could 
expect to receive from the system was £449.18. The above figure is not hidden away in 
small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. And Mr M has signed directly next to this section 
 so, I think he wouldve, at the very least, seen this when he signed the document.
In the second part of the order form, the cost of the system is set out. As set out below, it 
sets out the total cost as £8,430, that Mr M was to pay in deposit of £1,000 and that he 
would use finance to cover the remaining balance of £7,430. 
Directly beneath this, it sets out that Mr M is expected to make 120 payments of around 
£96.05. It does look like the monthly loan payments and the term of the loan was set out 
within the sales documents. Mr M signed immediately below the section on the page setting 
out the costs of the loan. So again I think its likely he would have seen this. 
On the same day, Mr M went on to sign his credit agreement agreeing to take out a 10-year 
loan to cover the remaining balance. The credit agreement again sets out the total cost of 
system which was, £8,430, that the amount being borrowed was £7,430, the term of loan 
120 months (i.e. 10 years), and the monthly payment amount which was £96.05. 
I think its apparent that to repay a loan for £7,430 over 10 years, Mr M would need at least 
£743 per year to cover the cost of the system  and this is without any finance charges. This 
is significantly more than the annual benefit set out by the supplier. His monthly payments 
were also £96.05, and I think its clear that 12 payments of £96.05 is significantly more than 
£449.18 (the annual estimated benefit). 
Based on the above, Im satisfied that it would have been clear to him that, the annual costs 
of the system (including the finance charges), would be significantly more than the annual 
benefit he would receive  so the system would not be self-funding. 
I think the documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions Mr M had with the supplier 
at the time of sale and these figures were not only set out on the documents he signed but 
would also have been discussed. The sales contract is the supplier own document, and this 
sets out the annual benefits, the full cost of the system and the estimated costs associated 
with the finance. Mr M has signed this document several times and on the same pages as 
the information Ive set out above is on. 
Mr M was making a significant purchase and agreed to take out finance for 10 years for a 
significant some. I dont think its likely that he agreed to this without discussing the basics of 
the system and its costs. As Ive said above, I think these figures were discussed with Mr M 
and if he had been told something different at the time of sale, on being asked to sign these 
documents, I would have expected him to question what hed been told and Ive seen no 
evidence that he did  suggesting they most likely did not contradict his understanding at the 
time. So I think it's more likely that it was made clear to him that the benefits the system was 
going to produce would not be sufficient to cover the full cost of the system. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mr Ms testimony, I find the documents from the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint. Im, therefore, satisfied 
that Omni did not act unreasonably or unfairly by declining this claim.
Finally, Omni has said that if Mr Ms financial situation has changed and he is struggling to 
meet the repayments under the loan, he can contact it to discuss what it can do to help. 
Where consumers are experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect financial businesses 
to treat their customers positively and sympathetically, so if Mr M requires assistance, he 
can contact Omni for support. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman