DRN-1502370
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1997 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr C and Mrs C say Nationwide Building 
Society mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C took out a PPI policy during a telephone conversation in connection with 
their joint mortgage. They paid a monthly amount for the policy which offered accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover for up to 2 years on a successful claim. The policy 
covered both of them. They complain they were lead to believe it was a condition of the 
mortgage to have PPI; they thought it was compulsory and that they wouldnt get the 
mortgage without it. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added they had 
enough savings and secure jobs to cover them; and that there is no evidence from 
Nationwide to say PPI wasnt mis-sold.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Nationwide should have made Mr C and Mrs C aware they had a choice in buying the policy. 
They say they thought PPI was compulsory to get the mortgage, but they didnt give any 
detail about what they were told that day during the telephone call or who had the 
conversation. 
Neither Nationwide nor Mr C and Mrs C have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 23 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Nationwide sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And Mr C and Mrs C havent told me 
anything that makes me think Nationwide didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I 
think its more likely Nationwide made it clear to them they had a choice about the PPI, and 
they chose to buy it. 
Nationwide said the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, the PPI information had 
to be clear, fair and not misleading for Mr C and Mrs C to make an informed decision. So it was up to them to decide if the policy was of benefit to them. I looked at their financial 
circumstances at the time to see if they would get any benefit from the policy.
I noted said they had enough savings to cover each for one years salary and employee 
benefits to cover all their expenses. But the policy could have paid the mortgage repayments 
alone for a maximum of 24 months for on a successful claim  leaving their savings and 
employee benefits to cover other expenses. So I think the PPI was of value to Mr C and Mrs 
C.  They had borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on their home. So I think having the security that the mortgage repayments would 
be made if either was unable to work would have been important to them.
I dont know what information they received about the PPI but neither of them were affected 
by the things the policy didnt cover, so I dont think any more detailed information would 
have put them off from buying the policy.
I dont know what information they were given about the cost and benefits of the policy but, 
having decided they chose to have PPI, I think they wanted this type of cover. So I dont 
think any more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put them off from 
buying the policy.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr C and Mrs C. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what I know of Nationwides sales processes. And I dont think  on balance 
 I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman