DRN-3382249
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has treated him unfairly in relation to 
his online banking.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr S holds an account with Santander and was using his online credentials and ID 
number (ID1) for many years until December 2020.
Santander said it had revoked ID1 after Mr S had incorrectly input his information in 
December 2020 on several occasions. It said the device used shared the same IP 
address as previous successful attempts. And it directed him to use a second slightly 
longer ID number (ID2) to use going forward.
Mr S complained, saying he hadnt made a mistake. And he complained about the 
wider service provided by Santander, and that he wanted to keep ID1.
Santander agreed it had mismanaged Mr S expectations by telling him he would 
have access to his online banking while a new password was posted to him  which 
was incorrect. So, it gave him £25 compensation and apologised. But it said the 
decision to revoke access to the account due to incorrect credentials was correct. 
And that he would be unable to use ID1 any longer and would need to use ID2.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. He was satisfied the most likely 
reason for ID1 being revoked was due to incorrect data input. And that Santanders 
decision to issue ID2 was a commercial one and not something hed interfere with. 
The Investigator considered Mr S point that he hadnt attempted to access the 
account as many times as Santander had said but felt the system records were more 
persuasive. And it was reasonable for Santander to not share internal system data. 
Finally, he concluded that its investigation into the concerns was reasonable. So, he 
didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr S disagreed and said there may have been a glitch with Santanders systems. He 
also raised concerns about Santanders processes to change its IDs without clear 
communication to customers and said £150 compensation would be a fairer sum. 
And said he had used the login credentials some 12 hours prior, so it shows he 
would not forget or mistype them within that time.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised many points within his complaint to this Service. The nature of this Service 
is to provide a quick and informal way for complaints to be resolved. So, while Ive taken into 
account everything Mr S has said, my decision will focus on what I consider to be the crux of 
his complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S disputes that he input his credentials incorrectly, or as many times as 
Santander suggested. He has attributed this to a mistake on Santanders part or 
possible data glitch. I accept this may be possible, but Ive been given no 
evidence to support it happened. So, Im satisfied the system data suggests the 
most likely reason for the revocation of the ID, on balance, is that it was input 
incorrectly on the day in question.
Mr S is unhappy with Santanders decision to change his ID, and with its 
communication around this more widely. As our Investigator has detailed, these 
are commercial decisions made by Santander for the security of its customers. 
So, while I understand he feels passionately about this, it is simply not his 
decision to make. And Im not persuaded Santander has made any mistakes by 
changing this, nor am I persuaded that it has failed Mr S by not alerting him of 
any change to its processes as hes suggested.
Mr S is unhappy with the communication and service provided by Santander. 
Santander has agreed it made mistakes in this regard and offered £25. I 
understand discovering the online banking wasnt available to him for a period of 
time  after hed been assured it would  would be disappointing. Ive also 
considered the other interactions Mr S has had with Santanders staff and seen 
nothing material that would lead me to direct it to pay further compensation.
In the circumstances, taking into account the account wouldnt have been 
accessible for a period of time anyway, Im satisfied the £25 compensation it has 
paid is a fair and reasonable sum, and Im not directing it to do anything further. 
Mr S has sought internal screenshots from Santander. Im satisfied it has acted 
reasonably by not sharing these. In any case, it has given Mr S clear reasoning 
and details as to why his ID was revoked. So even if I agreed it had made an 
error  which I dont  the extent of any impact appears limited.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman