DRN-3489406
The complaint
Miss J complained because Lloyds Bank Plc refused to refund her for a transaction which 
she says she didnt make.
What happened
On 3 September 2021, Miss J contacted Lloyds. She said shed just realised that there was 
a transaction for £265 on 1 February 2019 which she hadnt authorised. Lloyds refused to 
refund Miss J. It said that as the disputed payment had taken place more than 13 months 
earlier, it couldnt investigate. 
Miss J wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She says the bank is responsible for 
allowing the disputed payment to be made. She has also said that she had no internet 
access at her home so had been unable to monitor her account, and so didnt know about 
the disputed transaction until it was pointed out to her during an investigation by a third 
party. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. She explained that there are regulations 
about disputed transactions, and these say that the customer must notify the bank as soon 
as they become aware  and in any case not later than 13 months after the debit. The 
disputed transactions had taken place on 1 February 2019, and Miss J hadnt notified Lloyds 
until 3 September 2021, which was more than 13 months later. So Lloyds was entitled to 
refused to investigate. 
The investigator also pointed out that Miss J had told us she regularly checked her account 
online using an internet dongle her boyfriend lent her, so she couldnt see any reason why 
Miss J couldnt have reported the disputed transaction much sooner. 
Miss J wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said that she feels 
Lloyds made the payment that is in dispute and should answer her questions about how and 
why that happened.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed payments. For the payment I am considering 
here, these are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Ive quoted Regulation 74 below: 
74.(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 76, 91, 92, 93 or 94 
(liability for unauthorised transactions, non-execution or defective or late execution of 
transactions, or charges and interest), only if it notifies the payment service provider without 
undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming 
aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction. 
Miss J reported the disputed transaction, which took place on 1 February 2019, on 
3 September 2021. Thats significantly more than 13 months after it took place. So the 
regulations mean that Miss J wasnt entitled to any redress. 
Miss J said shed only been made aware of the transaction following an investigation by a 
third party. But that isnt listed in the regulations as a reason for extending the deadline. And 
in any case, Miss J has told us that although she had no internet access at her home, she 
checked her account online regularly  generally once a month  using an internet dongle 
lent to her by her boyfriend. The disputed payment was for £265, a significant amount in light 
of Miss Js income at the time, so I think it would have been noticeable.
So Im not persuaded that Miss J couldnt have known about this transactions within 13 
months of it happening. It was her responsibility to check her account and to raise any 
dispute within that period. 
With all this in mind, Im satisfied that Lloyds was not required to investigate this disputed 
payment or provide Miss J with any redress, and it follows that I dont consider Lloyds needs 
to answer any of Miss Js specific questions about the payment or how it happened. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Miss J, but I hope she will understand the 
reasons for my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman