DRN-3600053
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a section 32 style personal 
pension plan (PPP), and the subsequent problems that have arisen from that advice. He 
says that hes now been advised that the PPP is underfunded, and he wont receive all of the 
guaranteed benefits he says he was promised at the time of the advice  in particular the 
guaranteed cash sum and the 25% tax free lump sum.  
He also complains about what he described as the mismanagement of his plan, which he 
says is demonstrated by the lack of bonuses applied to his plan since 2001.
What happened
Mr J had belonged to an OPS. A letter, dated 20 September 1988, which set out the paid-
up benefits from the OPS showed that his deferred annual pension at age 65 was £8,152. 
The other benefits such as a tax free lump sum and death benefits after retirement were also 
set out in the letter.  
In 1989 Mr J met with Winterthur Life, now part of Aviva  which is how Ill now refer to the 
business involved in this complaint  and agreed to transfer his OPS benefits into a section 
32 style PPP. 
In 2002 the advice to transfer was reviewed by Aviva under the industry wide pension 
review. As a result compensation of £8,915 was paid into the section 32 plan because the 
advice to transfer was deemed to have been unsuitable. Mr J received an endorsement to 
his policy noting that his retirement sum assured had been increased to £34,381.
In 2014, following a request from Mr J to draw his PPP benefits, Aviva said the benefits 
couldnt be taken, as the transfer value didnt cover the Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) which was attached to the policy. It explained that if the GMP shortfall wasnt covered 
by the fund value by Mr Js selected retirement date  it would make up any shortfall to 
enable the GMP to be paid. However, Aviva confirmed that in that situation no additional 
benefits such tax free cash would be available. 
Aviva provided a similar response to Mr Js subsequent requests, until, following another 
similar letter in January 2020, Mr J complained about the potential loss of his entitlement to a 
25% tax free cash lump sum and the loss of payment of a guaranteed cash sum  which 
he said had been promised to him in the letter from September 1989. 
He also complained that he hadnt received any bonuses on his plan since 2001, despite 
growth of over 3.5% per year on the stock market during that time. He thought his plan and 
indeed the fund had been mismanaged.  
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, under the scheme rules, it had to pay a GMP 
from Mr Js plan on his 65th birthday. It said that as the current fund value didnt cover the 
GMP liability, it wasnt therefore possible for the plan to be transferred. It explained that the 
fund value required to cover the GMP was currently £122,477.12 whereas the guaranteed 
sum at retirement in April 2023 was only £48,089.81  which comprised a sum assured of 
£34,381 and bonuses of £13,708.81.
It also explained that the equivalent protected rights value of the plan was significantly 
higher than its transfer value  so it wasnt possible for Mr J to transfer to another provider 
instead. 
Following Avivas response Mr J raised a number of further questions about the bonuses 
and the with-profit fund. But as he remained unhappy about the outcome regarding his main 
complaint points, he brought his complaint to us. By November 2020 Aviva had answered 
his outstanding questions and informed him it had sent his file to us for his complaint to be 
investigated.
 
In his submissions to us Mr J made a number of what he said were supporting points:
At the time of the advice he had a young family and the family finances were tight. He 
hadnt joined his new OPS because of financial limitations. 
When he met with an adviser to discuss his mortgage repayment options his risk 
profile was defined as cautious. He thought this indicated the amount of risk he 
would have been prepared to take with investments as well. 
He wouldnt have agreed to give up his OPS benefits, especially given his cautious 
risk profile, without being persuaded that the PPP would provide improved overall 
benefits. This included the spouses death benefits and the minimum period of five 
years payments he or his wife would receive.    
He had no record of having agreed to Avivas compensation offer from 2001. There 
was no record of him signing to accept the payment. He expected Aviva to provide 
evidence of any such acceptance. But even if it is was accepted, he still didnt believe 
the award adequately addressed any potential loss.
Even allowing for the industry-wide pension review and offer of compensation from 
the review, he thought the regulator would still expect such (with-profit) policies to be 
suitably managed going forward. He didnt believe that had happened in his case 
with no fund profits being allocated to the plan in the previous 20 year period.
So, one of our investigators looked into the matter. He said Mr Js complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, making the following points in support of his assessment:
Aviva had reviewed the plan under the industry wide pensions review and had paid 
compensation accordingly for its unsuitable advice. Therefore it wouldnt be fair to 
reconsider the suitability of the advice Mr J received, as Aviva was only required by 
the regulator to carry out a loss assessment once. 
Although Aviva hadnt provided any confirmation of Mr Js acceptance, it was clear 
Mr J understood that he had been included in the review and had been offered 
compensation. And there was nothing to suggest that he contested the settlement. 
But in any case, that wouldnt be enough to ask Aviva to undertake the calculation 
again. 
With regards to the use of the term guaranteed cash sum, he accepted that such 
wording within certain documents could be misleading.  He thought the term actually 
referred to the basic sum assured  which with the addition of accrued bonuses 
made up the total fund value. He was of the view that follow up documents did 
include the correct term (retirement sum assured) and so concluded that the 
evidence of the previous potentially misleading statement wasnt sufficient in order to 
justify upholding the complaint.The tax free lump sum was only available on any fund value that was in excess of the 
amount required to meet GMP liability. In this case it was therefore unlikely that 
sufficient funds would be left over to provide a tax free cash sum.
He explained that the value of the plan and the bonus rates wasnt guaranteed by 
Aviva and we werent able to uphold a complaint on the basis of poor performance 
alone.   
Mr J didnt agree and made the following points in response:
He didnt dispute that his pension was reviewed in 2001 and that the conclusion was 
that it had been mis sold. But he had no recollection or record of accepting the offer. 
He said his lack of acceptance of the offer ought to demonstrate that he didnt agree 
with it and therefore it shouldnt have been implemented. 
The guaranteed cash sum reference from the letter in 1989 stated that it was 
another benefit similar to the widows pension and death benefit up to retirement. 
Therefore he thought it should have been paid in addition to the basic sum assured. 
He didnt think wed addressed the reasons behind the performance of the with-
profits fund. He thought that elements such as smoothing, and the published fund 
returns  which demonstrated equivalent returns of 4-6%, hadnt been considered. 
He holds another policy with Aviva which began at the same time and is invested in 
the same with-profit sub fund. That policy, unlike the section 32 plan, has seen 
bonuses applied every year from 2013. 
He thought the endorsement he received in March 2002 which set out the increase in 
the guaranteed cash sum was misleading and open to interpretation. He said Avivas 
explanation of that matter in its final response was contradictory to what the 
endorsement indicated.
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind and made the following points in 
response:
He was satisfied that the correct information was input into Avivas pension review 
loss calculation from 2002. And, as the regulator set out the guidelines of the review 
so that a calculation was seen as a one off exercise, he didnt think Aviva needed to 
carry out the calculation again  even if Mr J said there was no evidence that hed 
accepted Avivas offer of compensation.
The guaranteed cash sum needed to be of a certain value to provide the GMP. And 
it had previously been referred to (correctly) as the basic sum assured  which with 
the addition of bonuses, and the compensation payment that was paid following the 
pension review, made up the overall fund. 
He accepted that it didnt appear the fund had grown from 2002. But he said Aviva 
said that no bonuses had been added since 2002, and the fund values that were 
quoted were the values accrued to date but paid at the normal retirement date. So it 
wasnt the case that the fund value itself hadnt grown since 2002.
But Mr J wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator. I dont think Aviva has made any errors 
which require it to do anything  which I accept is an outcome that is likely to disappoint Mr J. Ive seen the strength of his feelings on this matter through his submissions, so Ill 
explain the reasons behind my decision. 
The original offer of compensation from the pension review
Mr J accepts that the advice around his original OPS transfer was reviewed in 2001 and 
deemed to have been unsuitable. But he says hes unaware that he signed Avivas letter 
requesting acceptance of the offer of compensation which he believes demonstrates that he 
didnt accept it. 
 
Avivas offer of compensation from 2002 required Mr J to sign and return an enclosed from 
within four weeks, or it reserved the right to amend or withdraw the offer. So I think its 
unlikely it would have paid the compensation and endorsed the policy without Mr Js 
signature. With the passage of time its not possible to know exactly what happened over 20 
years ago and theres no available evidence to confirm matters. But Mr J hasnt disputed that 
there was an offer  simply that he didnt accept it. So I think he should have complained 
about the compensation if he didnt accept it at that time and theres no evidence to show 
that he did contest the offer. 
But in any case, the aim of the Pensions Review was to look at the position that existed at 
the time and to pay compensation with the objective of putting matters right then. It was a 
one-off exercise, which recognised the impracticalities of waiting until someone retired 
before assessing loss. The aim of the calculation was to work out what would to be enough 
to increase the value of Mr Js PPP to provide the same level of benefits as his OPS would 
have provided. 
The regulator set out how the calculation needed to be run, and the assumptions that all 
businesses had to use to assess any potential loss. Unfortunately the assumptions used 
havent been borne out  and annuity rates have also fallen significantly. This has meant the 
benefits provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been 
anticipated. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to revisit things 20 years later as it followed 
the guidance that was set by the regulator at the time. As mentioned, this was a one-off 
exercise, and the objective was to draw a line under things at the point the review was 
carried out using assumptions which were considered reasonable at the time. This means 
that whether or not Mr J accepted the offer I wouldnt ask Aviva to undertake the calculation 
again.
 
The guaranteed cash sum
Mr J has provided evidence to show that in a letter from Aviva dated 8 September 1989, it 
stated that the guaranteed cash sum at normal retirement age 65 was £25,466. This figure 
was augmented following the compensation payment in 2002 and is the amount that Mr J 
says Aviva should pay him in line with the other benefits that were set out in the policy  
such as a widows pension and tax free cash, as well as the annuity that was due to him. 
I think Aviva did cause some confusion by using a different term to confirm the same thing  
which was essentially the sum of money it would require in order to provide the guaranteed 
annuity. I can understand Mr Js frustration at this unclear messaging, and I can see why he 
might assume he would receive a guaranteed cash sum payment as described. 
But I dont think he should expect such a payment and I say that for two reasons. Firstly 
Aviva has made reference, in a number of other documents, to the fact that it was a 
guaranteed sum assured. This isnt to underplay its previous unclear description or that it may have raised Mr Js expectations of what he might receive, but I think theres enough 
reference in other documents to make it clear what was intended.
The original policy schedule that Mr J received noted there was a retirement sum assured of 
£25,466 and a guaranteed annuity of £4,310.60. And the illustration that Mr J was issued 
with said, At retirement, the fund will be used primarily to purchase pension benefits. 
Retirement sum assured (guaranteed part of the fund) is £25466.the guaranteed element 
of your personal pension (GMP) is £4,310.60 p.a. So I think these were clear instructions 
that he would receive a minimum yearly pension at retirement from a specified sum assured, 
but there was no suggestion of any other guaranteed benefits  including a guaranteed 
cash sum.
Ive also seen how the endorsement Mr J referred to from 2002 referred to a new retirement 
sum assured of £34,381, and the 2002 bonus notice issued in May 2003 referred to a basic 
sum assured of £34,381.So, I think on balance that Mr J was made sufficiently aware that 
the figure he has referred to was the sum assured amount that would be used to provide 
his annual pension. The letter that Aviva sent him in September 1989 wasnt part of a 
contract, albeit that it gave some unclear messaging. So I dont agree with Mr J that the 
letter meant that Aviva had a commitment to pay him a cash sum of that value. 
 
But also the rules around pensions at the time meant that a payment of benefits from the 
PPP would, where possible, have been in the form of a tax free sum and a residual pension. 
And Mr Js reference to his expectations of a tax free cash sum would suggest he was aware 
of this. So I dont think it was reasonable for him to expect a sum, equivalent to the whole 
fund, to be paid to him. In its response letter to Mr J in 2020 Aviva confirmed the plans value 
was around £48,000  of which if it were possible to pay the maximum amount as a cash 
lump sum, which Ill cover later in this decision, only around £12,000 would be payable under 
the rules. So for Mr J to expect payment of the guaranteed cash sum of over £25,000  or 
even £34,381 as stated in the endorsement - would seem to be unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The term that Aviva used in in its 1989 letter may have been unclear when compared to 
other documents, but I think the spirit of what was intended made it clear this wasnt an extra 
(guaranteed benefit) lump sum that he should expect at normal retirement. So I cant support 
Mr Js claim for payment of a guaranteed cash sum equivalent to the retirement sum 
assured amount. 
The 25% tax free cash lump sum
Mr J also complains that he wont now receive any tax free cash from his plan as it would 
only be payable from any excess funds over whats required to cover the GMP. In this case 
there isnt any surplus fund. So Ive looked at the documents Aviva provided to see if Mr J 
was made any guarantees or promises about tax free cash that havent now been kept. 
The PPP illustration from 1989 sets out that, the transfer value from your existing scheme 
will be used to purchase benefits under the early leaver plan which is an individual pension 
plan. 
The transfer value will be invested in a with-profits policy to provide a fund at retirement. Part 
of the fund is guaranteed, and the remainder is dependent on future declared bonuses. At 
retirement, the fund will be used primarily to purchase pension benefits. Retirement sum 
assured (guaranteed part of the fund) is £25466. 
The illustration of retirement benefits didnt include tax free cash, but reference was made in 
the same section which said that subject to inland revenue limitations, part of the retirement 
fund may be taken as a tax free cash sum.  Mr J has suggested that the statement above indicated a tax free sum would be available 
and that, at no time, was it suggested to him in 1989 that such a tax free sum would not be 
available. But, having carefully considered the illustration Im not aware that any guarantee 
was made about the provision of a tax free lump sum and it was clearly stated that any such 
payment would be subject to inland revenue limitations. 
I can understand Mr Js frustrations that he wont now receive the tax free cash he clearly 
expected when he agreed to the transfer in 1989. Its an unfortunate situation that Aviva, in 
having to meet its commitment to providing a GMP  even though the fund value doesnt 
support the amount of GMP, can no longer provide ancillary benefits from the fund, such as 
tax free cash. I wouldnt expect Aviva to make a payment that it isnt obliged to now make, 
but I would expect it to have made Mr J aware of that possibility in its documentation, which, 
from the excerpts Ive set out above I think it did. 
And I also note that Aviva made Mr J aware of this fact when he applied to draw his benefits 
in 2014. Aviva explained that, If at your selected retirement date the value of your fund is 
insufficient to cover the cost, we will make up any shortfall so it is still paid, however, in these 
circumstances there would be no extra benefits available such as a tax free lump sum. So, 
although I recognise this wasnt set out as clearly in the original documentation, Aviva 
wouldnt have known that it couldnt provide the tax free cash until it tested the value of the 
fund against the commitment to cover the GMP when Mr J requested his benefits. 
But I dont think Aviva needed to do more to make Mr J aware of the situation regarding his 
tax free cash and so I dont think it should have to pay it. The policy schedule set out that it 
may not be payable under certain conditions  which Aviva told Mr J as soon as it became 
known after he requested his benefits.
Mr Js assertion of the mismanagement of the fund and lack of bonuses
Mr J says his fund didnt receive any bonuses after 2001 which he thought was wrong 
considering the level of accumulated bonuses he had received in the 12 years prior. He said 
the fund didnt seem to have benefitted from any smoothing and was at odds with another 
policy he held which was invested within the same sub fund  which has received bonuses 
since 2013. He also referred to the fund returns quoted by Aviva during this time and the 
performance of the stock market over the same period. He said this all pointed to 
mismanagement of the fund by Aviva.
I appreciate that Mr J is disappointed not to have received any bonuses. But unfortunately, a 
with-profits fund is not immune from economic factors and will be affected by investment 
conditions. Those factors have had an effect on bonus rates over the longer term. Aviva has 
been clear that the bonuses applied to this fund were discretionary and not guaranteed. So I 
dont think its fair to assume that, by paying bonuses in prior years, Aviva set an expectation 
that it is required to pay bonuses every year. In addition different bonus rates will often apply 
to different types of policies. 
Some will have built up different guarantees and some will have bonuses added to them and 
some not. So it doesnt automatically follow that Mr Js PPP will follow the same course as 
the other policy he holds invested in the same way. 
With-profits providers, such as Aviva. have quite a bit of discretion about how they run their 
with-profits fund and the bonuses rates they apply. But Mr Js experience is confirmation of 
the fact that Aviva needs to be accountable to the industry regulator as to it how it manages 
its with-profits funds. It does have to manage the fund in line with rules and guidance set out 
by the regulator.Aviva publishes its Principles and Practices of Financial Management document to set out 
how it manages its with-profits funds, which is a document that Mr J can, if he hasnt already, 
look at to satisfy himself about what Aviva is doing. But Im not aware the regulator has 
found any problems or raised any concerns about how Aviva has managed its with-profits 
fund. So although I do understand Mr Fs concerns, Ive not seen enough evidence to 
demonstrate any suggestion of any deliberate mismanagement. 
But, while Ive tried to explain that, based on what Ive seen, Aviva hasnt done anything 
wrong in the management of its with-profits fund, Mr J complains about the lack of bonuses 
and poor performance of the fund. And we wouldnt generally uphold complaints solely about 
the performance of an investment because the way in which a product provider manages 
investments and decides to pay a bonus is a matter for its own commercial judgment.
Although bonuses will be partly based on gains within the with-profits fund, it should be 
remembered that it employs smoothing to potentially allow bonuses to be added when 
markets are underperforming and can include guarantees that have to be met, so the 
performance of a with-profits fund doesn't necessarily reflect the current performance of the 
stock market. It's for the Aviva to decide what the bonus should be, so its not appropriate for 
me to be able to say that a bonus should be different from that which has (or hasnt) been 
added.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman