DRN-4374719
The complaint
Mr B complains that a business which is now part of ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer from his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension. ReAssure is responsible for this complaint. And Ill only refer to it in my decision.
Mr B is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr B said that he had conversations with ReAssure after it approached him about his 
pension. He said that at the time of the advice he was employed. And that he was 38 years 
old and married. 
Mr B said he wasnt told that hed lose any benefits by transferring out of his OPS. And that if 
he had been, he wouldnt have proceeded with the advice. He said hed been advised that 
he would achieve a better pension by transferring away from his OPS. So in late 1991, Mr B 
transferred the deferred benefits from his OPS to a personal pension with ReAssure. The 
transfer took place on 3 December 1991. The transfer amount was £10,252.20.
I understand that Mr B had two other personal pension plans with ReAssure at the time of 
the transfer. And that these had been set up to contract out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS). The plans both started in September 1987.
In October 1994 an industry-wide review was established by the then regulator, the 
Securities and Investment Board. This was known as the Pensions Review. It aimed to avoid 
future complaints from customers, as the regulator was aware of the potential mis-selling of 
pensions on a large scale. The Pensions Review targeted some pensions that were sold 
between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. 
In 1995, Mr Bs personal pension was selected for the first phase of the Pension Review. 
ReAssure sent him a questionnaire. This was completed and signed by Mr B on 20 October 
1995. ReAssure said it received the questionnaire on 25 October 1995. It recorded that Mr 
Bs transfer was carried out on a non-advised basis. And that hed made his own decision to 
transfer. 
Mr B complained to ReAssure through his CMC in November 2022. It said that the advice to 
transfer his OPS to a personal pension had been negligent and not in Mr Bs best interests. 
It said that if the OPS had remained in place and was still in force as of 29 September 2022, 
it wouldve been worth £89,189.12. It asked ReAssure to restore Mr B to the position he 
wouldve been in but for the negligent advice.
Mr Bs CMC also said that Mr Bs transfer shouldve been reviewed as part of the industry-
wide Pension Review, but it hadnt been. It felt that ReAssure would argue that a Pension 
Review did take place. It said that the Pension Review form which had been date stamped 
25 October 1995 did appear to have been completed, but that Mr B didnt remember doing 
so. It said that in any event, there was no evidence to suggest that a Pension Review had 
taken place. It said no outcome was ever reached or communicated to Mr B. So hed had no 
reason to consider he mightve received unsuitable advice to transfer.
Mr Bs CMC also said that there were industry-wide concerns when a personal pension was 
sold, or a transfer recommended, on a commission-led basis.
ReAssure issued its final response to the complaint on 22 December 2022. It said the 
evidence available showed that the personal pension had been sold on a non-advised basis. 
As such, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said itd been Mr Bs decision alone to proceed with 
the transfer.
ReAssure said that Mr B had confirmed in the 1995 Pension Review questionnaire that he 
hadnt received any advice. It also said that there was no evidence of a Fact Find having 
been completed, and this wouldve been a requirement at the time if advice had been 
provided. And that the documentation completed when the transfer took place showed that 
no commission was paid to an agent, which wouldve been the case if no advice had been 
given. But it said that if Mr B could provide any further evidence, it would be happy to review 
it further.
Mr B was unhappy with ReAssures response. So he brought his complaint to this service. 
Given how long ago the event being complained about took place, our investigator asked 
ReAssure if it gave this service its consent to consider the merits of the complaint. ReAssure 
provided that consent. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said the evidence 
showed that Mr B didnt consider hed received any advice for the transfer in 1995, when 
hed completed the Pension Review questionnaire. And that he hadnt received any other 
evidence that suggested Mr B had received transfer advice. He asked all parties to submit 
further evidence for his review if it was available.
Ive not been provided with any further evidence.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points through his CMC:
there was a lack of evidence from ReAssure to prove why the Pension Review 
correspondence, including the questionnaire, had been sent to Mr B if it already knew 
no adviser was involved in the transfer. It said that although ReAssure said that its 
system showed no commission had been paid, it wanted to know why the Pension 
Review correspondence had been sent to Mr B.
It felt that ReAssure had a responsibility to its customers to ensure a good outcome 
was provided for all. And that it shouldve noted that, as alleged, no adviser was 
involved and therefore Mr B wasnt in a position to know and understand the higher 
risks attached to the new pension/transfer out. He felt ReAssure shouldve pointed 
out any detriment or issues to Mr B and therefore reviewed the transfer regardless of 
an adviser being involved or not.
It also said that Mr B maintained that he did receive advice and that any 
documentation completed was prompted. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that theres no 
evidence that ReAssure advised Mr B to transfer. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Theres very little documentary evidence available from the time of the transfer. But Ive seen 
a 16 December 1991 one-page letter from ReAssure to Mr Bs OPS about the transfer. In 
the letter, ReAssure acknowledged that a cheque for £10,252.20 had been received in 
respect of the transfer. And that the money would be applied to a personal pension scheme 
for Mr B.
I consider that this letter shows that the benefits from the OPS were transferred to the 
personal pension with ReAssure. But it doesnt indicate whether any advice was given or 
not. The application form for the transfer also has no indication that Mr B was advised on the 
transfer. So I went on to consider the other available documentary evidence 
I mentioned the Pensions Review earlier. Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set 
out the method and assumptions that firms had to use to determine if any redress was due.
Ive been provided with a copy of the Pension Review questionnaire Mr B completed and 
signed in October 1995, around four years after the transfer. Questions 14, 15 and 16 are 
particularly relevant to his complaint. 
Under question 14: How did you make the decision not to join or leave that employers 
pension scheme?, Mr B answered, I made my own decision. And under question 15: Did 
anyone give you advice when you took out your personal pension plan?, Mr B answered 
No. Mr B left question 16: If someone did give you advice, please tick the box or boxes 
below to tell us who it was unanswered.
Im satisfied that Mr Bs answers to the questionnaire show that almost four years after itd 
taken place, Mr B didnt think hed received any advice for the transfer of his OPS benefits. I 
agree with our investigator that, on balance of probability, Mr Bs recollection of events 
wouldve been much clearer after only four years had passed than they would be over 25 
further years later, when he made his complaint. So although I dont doubt that Mr B does 
now consider that he did receive advice to transfer, Im more persuaded by his recollection 
of events in 1995.
I acknowledge that Mr Bs CMC said that ReAssure hadnt shown why itd sent Mr B the 
Pension Review correspondence, if itd known that no adviser was involved in the transfer. 
ReAssure told this service that at the start of the Pension Review, all applicable policy types 
were identified and mailed with a Pension Review Questionnaire. And that any filters about 
what might in the end be reviewable wasnt carried out. It said the fact that a Pension 
Review questionnaire was issued didnt mean it hadnt been appropriate to formally exclude 
a case from the Pension Review later on. And that the issue of the questionnaire was a 
requirement to help identify the actual reviewable population and complete an initial data 
gathering exercise.
ReAssure also said that Mr B had set up a regular premium and rebate-only policy before 
transferring his deferred benefits from his OPS. It felt there was every reason to suspect that 
Mr B had wanted all his pension elements under one roof. And said he could easily have 
transferred the deferred benefits remaining without financial advice. It also said that Mr B had confirmed hed received no advice on the Pension Review Questionnaire. And that the 
application form for the transfer also showed that no advice had been provided. ReAssure 
felt that if Mr B had taken advice, it wouldve been more likely that he wouldve transferred 
his OPS benefits at the same time as he took out the regular premium and rebate-only 
plans. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for ReAssure to have sent the Pension Review 
questionnaires to all potential policy types. And that it fairly excluded Mr Bs transfer from 
that Review once hed told it that he hadnt received any advice. I say this because Ive seen 
no documentary evidence that ReAssure provided Mr B with any advice to transfer. And 
because Mr B himself didnt think hed been advised at the time that he completed the 
Pension Review questionnaire.
I also acknowledge that Mr Bs CMC felt that ReAssure had a responsibility to its customers 
to ensure good outcomes. But I dont agree that it had such a responsibility unless it 
provided advice. And Ive seen no evidence that it did so. 
Without any documentary evidence that ReAssure provided Mr B with advice to transfer, I 
cant fairly or reasonably uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman