DRN-4024790
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has 
administered the mortgage she holds jointly with her ex-husband, and about the requests it 
has made to her for payment. She says shes a victim of fraud, and Halifax has enabled the 
fraud to happen.
What happened
Mrs C and her now ex-husband, Mr C, have a mortgage with Halifax. Mrs C says she has 
been telling Halifax since 2016 that the mortgaged property is being let illegally, and she has 
reported fraud a number of times to both Halifax and the police. 
In 2020, Mrs C complained that her ex-husband had applied fraudulently for a payment 
deferral on the mortgage and Halifax had granted the deferral. That complaint has been 
dealt with separately.
 
Mrs C has since made a number of further complaints about Halifaxs administration of the 
mortgage and its treatment of her. Shes unhappy that Halifax has:
- allowed third parties to launder money through her mortgage by accepting cash 
payments;
- sent documents to the mortgaged property even though it knows that the property is 
being fraudulently let, which has allowed the tenant access to Mrs Cs personal 
information;
- demanded mortgage payments from her, even though Mr C is responsible for paying the 
mortgage;
- refused to communicate with her solicitor;
- blocked the sale of the property; and
- refused to investigate and report fraud.
Halifax said it had already looked into some of Mrs Cs complaint points, as had the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. It wouldnt re-visit matters that had already been dealt with. 
It also issued various final response letters saying it wasnt upholding Mrs Cs complaints.
Our Investigator looked into this complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
concluded that Mrs Cs concerns had for the most part arisen as a result of her dispute with 
Mr C, and Halifax wasnt responsible for that.
Mrs C asked for her complaint to be reconsidered. She said, in summary, that a third party 
was operating and paying her mortgage and trying to steal the mortgaged property. She felt 
Halifax had failed in its duty to protect her, and should report the fraud. She also said Halifax 
had recently failed to tell her about a repossession hearing and she had incurred costs in 
getting the resulting possession order set aside.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im satisfied that Mrs Cs complaint about the payment deferral on the mortgage 
in 2020 has been considered separately by the Financial Ombudsman Service, so its not 
appropriate for me to reconsider that particular matter again here.
Turning now to the issues in this complaint, this is an unusual situation where a third party is 
involved who believes they have a claim on the mortgaged property and there is also a 
dispute between Mrs C and Mr C. However, Halifaxs customers are Mrs C and Mr C  so 
Halifax is entitled to ask Mrs C to pay the mortgage. That is the case even if Mrs C and Mr C 
have come to an arrangement, in court or informally, whereby Mr C has agreed to take 
responsibility for the mortgage. Halifax wasnt party to that arrangement. It follows that I dont 
find Halifax has done anything wrong in asking Mrs C for payment.
While Mrs C has complained about Halifax asking her to pay the mortgage, she is also 
unhappy that it has accepted payments to the mortgage from a third party. She has made 
allegations of money laundering. I think it was reasonable for Halifax to have accepted the 
payments in the circumstances; had it not done so, the mortgage arrears would have 
increased.
Mrs C has told Halifax multiple times that the mortgaged property is let. Theres no dispute 
about that, and Halifax has charged additional interest to the mortgage to reflect the 
unauthorised let. While it has written to the mortgaged property, it has also sent 
correspondence to Mrs C at her current address. It has said that any correspondence for 
Mrs C which has gone to the mortgaged property address has been addressed to Mrs C, 
and I find nothing to indicate otherwise. 
 
Halifax hasnt written to or phoned Mrs Cs solicitor. It has said it didnt have an appropriate 
letter of authority, and in any event Mrs C had the information the solicitor wanted, which she 
could have passed on to them. I note that it invited Mrs C to let it know if there was specific 
information she wanted that was missing. I think that was reasonable. 
Mrs C is keen to sell the mortgaged property, but nothing in the evidence and arguments 
either she or Halifax has provided indicates that Halifax has blocked or delayed any potential 
sales. Rather, it seems that the dispute between Mrs C and other parties is more of a 
stumbling block.
Mrs C wants Halifax to report fraud to the police. I think that is, however, a matter for Mrs C 
as she considers herself a victim of fraud. I dont find that theres any investigation I can 
fairly require Halifax to carry out and, in all the circumstances, I make no order or award.
Finally, I note that there has been a court hearing while this complaint has been with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, about which Mrs C didnt receive prior notice and which 
resulted in an order in Halifaxs favour for possession of the mortgaged property. Mrs C has 
complained about that to both Halifax and its solicitors, and the possession order was 
subsequently set aside. This is a fresh issue; the Financial Ombudsman Service may be 
able to investigate this as a separate complaint if Mrs C wants us to do so. If so, she should 
let our Investigator know.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman