DRN-3712124
The complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC. He thinks theyve given him unsuitable 
investment advice.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I won't go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows: 
Mr A received investment advice from Barclays to invest £10,000 in 2000 and 
£15,000 in 2003. 
He complained to Barclays in 2020 about the advice hed received.
Barclays partially upheld the complaint, they thought the advice in 2000 had been 
unsuitable as the funds that were invested came from a personal loan. But they didnt 
think the advice to invest in 2003 had been unsuitable.
Mr A didnt agree with their findings and brought the complaint to this service. He 
said that the funds that were invested in 2003 came from a remortgage, and an 
appointment was made for him to see an adviser as soon as the funds were paid to 
his account. During the meeting the adviser didnt correctly assess his attitude to risk 
(ATR) and pushed him into the investment ignoring other debts he held. 
The investigator looked into his concerns and thought that the complaint should be 
fully upheld. She thought that the advice that was given in 2000 wasnt just 
unsuitable because the funds came from a loan, she also had concerns about Mr As 
recorded risk profile and capacity for loss given his limited investment experience.
She thought that Barclays hadn't done enough to identify the source of the funds for 
the 2003 investment and didnt think that that there was enough evidence to suggest 
that Mr As adventurous risk profile or the chosen fund was suitable for his 
circumstances at the time or his capacity for loss. 
Barclays didnt agree with her findings. They didnt see any reason why an 
experienced investor, already holding medium risk funds, who was young and in a 
good financial position could not take an adventurous approach to risk. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, and subject to any further submissions I receive, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. Before I explain why, Id like to thank Mr A for providing details of the 
difficult personal circumstances hes faced since he received the advice. I empathise with 
him and Id like to reassure him that Id carefully considered all of his submissions before 
coming to my decision. 
I agree that the advice in 2000 was unsuitable because the funds had come from a Barclays 
loan. I think they should have been aware of the source of the funds as they were the ones 
who lent Mr A the money. They shouldnt have then made a recommendation to invest the 
money without fully advising Mr A of the implications of what he was doing. 
I appreciate the investigators view that the advice Mr A received in 2000 was unsuitable for 
several reasons, not just because of the source of the funds that were used for the 
investment. But I think I need to look at the 2003 advice in terms of what actually happened, 
not what hypothetically should have happened if the 2000 advice was suitable. The facts are 
that Mr A took out a medium risk investment in 2000 which had lost some of its value by 
2003. As he held an investment for three years whose value had fluctuated, I dont think I 
can fairly say that he didnt have any investment experience. 
Ive therefore thought about Mr As circumstances at the time of the advice he received in 
2003. I note what hes said regarding his ATR being incorrectly assessed and the adviser 
ignoring his debts, but I must also give regard to the contemporaneous evidence that is 
available. 
The fact find from the time documented that he was aged 27, in full time employment 
earning c.£32,000 per annum and had a net disposable income of £950 per month. He 
owned his own property valued at £150,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £85,000. He 
had £50,000 on deposit and investments of c.£7,300. He had an outstanding credit card 
balance of £5,000 but it was noted that he didnt want to repay the balance as he was taking 
advantage of interest-free balance transfer offers. 
He was noted as having an adventurous ATR but the only evidence as to how this was 
assessed was a note to say, In line with the risk and reward brochure you described your 
attitude to investment risk as adventurous. The documents from 2003 describe how the 
risks were explained to Mr A. Its noted that As an adventurous investor, you want to 
achieve total higher returns by putting a greater part of your money in stock market 
investments. You are aware that by investing this way, your money could be subject to far 
greater fluctuations than those of the balanced investor and that the potential for loss is 
greater.
Taking everything into account, I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that Mr A should 
have been aware of the concept of risk and therefore the risks involved in making the 
recommended investment. And haven considered his circumstances - he was relatively 
young, had previous investment experience, a good level of disposable income and after the 
recommendation would have around 60% of his assets were left as cash on deposit I dont 
think an assessment of an adventurous ATR was unreasonable. 
Ive considered then considered the fund that was recommended  the L&G Managed 
Global Growth Fund. There isnt much documentation available but the evidence Ive seen 
shows that it was a fund of funds with an emphasis on a range of asset types and 
geographical regions. Its core holdings were in the UK and the USA and were mainly funds 
from leading investment firms. Being a global fund it carried a higher risk than Mr As 
holdings at the time, but I think it appeared to be in line with his assessed ATR and offered 
some diversification from his existing holdings. 
Ive also thought about what Mr A has said regarding the funds coming from a remortgage. The available evidence shows that the sum of around £35,000 was transferred to his 
account in August 2003. The fact find said that he had cash savings of c.£50,000 so even 
after the investment of £15,000, he was still left with the funds hed received from the 
remortgage. So while I appreciate what Mr A has said, I cant see that he made Barclays 
aware of the source of the funds, and in any event, he wasnt advised to invest the funds 
from the remortgage. 
I can also see that the adviser discussed Mr As planned expenditure and he mentioned the 
potential purchase of a buy to let property. The adviser took this into account and excluded 
the funds for that potential purchase from any potential investment. As Ive noted above, the 
adviser also discussed Mr As outstanding credit card debt and outstanding mortgage. It was 
also recorded that he was in good health at the time and had a history of good health. So 
while I dont dispute that Mr A subsequently suffered from ill health, I dont think the adviser 
was made aware of any issues at the time and therefore couldnt have factored this into his 
advice. 
Having taken everything into consideration, Im persuaded that the recommendation was 
suitable for someone in Mr As circumstances with his stated ATR and understanding of the 
potential risks. I dont think the evidence we have demonstrates that the recommendation 
involved a greater level of risk than what hed indicated he was willing to take in his 
circumstances. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any further evidence or comments they wished me to 
consider. Barclays didnt respond, but Mr A made the following points:
The decision hadnt considered all the circumstances. The original advice in 2000 
was wrong and he didnt believe he would have taken the advice again in 2003 as 
the original investment made a loss and was from a loan.
The funds had come from a remortgage and as soon as the funds came into his 
account, hed been mis-sold another investment. It seemed baffling that this point 
wasnt being taken into account. 
He didnt think anyone in their right mind would invest into a risky investment using 
remortgaged funds  while having responsibilities, debts and health issues.
The point that he was also supporting his ex-wife and putting her through college at 
the time of the advice hadnt been considered. 
He didnt think it was appropriate for Barclays to not have advised him to repay his 
credit card debt and noted it wasnt interest free as the ombudsman had said. 
He was pushed into making the investment by the adviser. Barclays had a duty to 
fully investigate where the money came from and also to fully establish his 
circumstances but didnt do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and while Ive noted the points Mr A has made, I still dont think his 
complaint should be upheld. I appreciate what hes said about his circumstances at the time, 
but I still think the investment was suitable for his circumstances at the time. I dont think I can fairly blame Barclays for not taking circumstances into account that they 
were not made aware of. The point of sale documentation specifically said that Mr A had no 
health issues or any dependants (including his ex-wife). I wasnt at the meeting so I cant say 
for certain what was or wasnt discussed, which is why I need to take the written evidence 
into account. 
The information and documents provided from the point of sale suggests that Mr A didnt 
make the adviser aware of some of the points hes now raised. If the adviser wasnt told 
about Mr As circumstances, then its unreasonable to expect him to take this information 
into consideration when making his recommendation. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, Mr A had £50,000 in available capital at the time of 
the advice. Even if Barclays had known the source of the funds, I dont think it was 
inappropriate for them to advise him to invest £15,000 as it still would have left Mr A with the 
money hed received from the remortgage.
Ive noted the point Mr A has made about his credit card. But it was recorded that you do 
not wish to repay your credit card debt at this time as you are happy to keep transferring 
balances to take advantage of interest free offers. You still have the money available in your 
. account to repay the card if you wish. Taking everything into account, especially his 
disposable income and remaining capital, I think what has been recorded is plausible and I 
dont think I can reasonably say that they should have advised him to repay the credit card.
I also take the point hes made about not wanting to invest as his previous investment had 
made a loss, but this also contradicts what was recorded. The documentation said that his 
previous investments had lost money, but he believed that the market was stable at the 
moment and he expected his investments to grow over time. I think this correlates to the 
economic climate at the time. The FTSE 100 had seen falls between 2000 and the start of 
2003 but by the time Mr A received the advice in September 2003, the markets had been 
rising for six months.  
So, in summary, while I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr A, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman