DRN-3484286
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a package bank account.
What happened
Mr G took out a Select account in September 2001 that was upgraded to a Platinum account 
in October 2005. Prior to this complaint being brought to us, Lloyds upheld Mr Gs complaint 
about the sale of his Select account. So, I have not considered the sale of the Select 
account in my decision.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Gs complaint about the sale of his Platinum account 
but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr G disagreed this complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
This decision will only be considering the complaint Mr G has raised about being mis-sold 
his Platinum account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the Platinum account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
Lloyds recommended the Platinum account to Mr G, so it had to make sure the account was 
right for him.
Mr G has explained that when he was sold the Platinum account, he was told by a Lloyds 
representative that he had to have the account to gain access to loans and an overdraft 
facility. Mr G has told us that he would have preferred a free account as he would have been 
able to obtain the benefits associated with the Platinum account cheaper elsewhere.
I have thought about what Mr G has told us, but he had a loan and an overdraft with his 
Select account before upgrading to the Platinum account, so I think he would have been 
aware that he didnt need to upgrade his account further in order to apply for a loan or 
overdraft.
I can see that at the time Mr G upgraded his account to a Platinum account the account 
offered a £250 fee free overdraft and substantially preferential interest rates for overdrafts 
that exceeded this amount. This was a big difference from his previous account, and may 
have been especially appealing to Mr G. 
Its not possible to know exactly what was said at the time the Platinum account was sold to 
Mr G. But I think its likely these benefits were discussed with Mr G and played into his 
decision to take the Platinum account. I think its unlikely a Lloyds representative told Mr G 
he had to upgrade his account to have an overdraft or loan, and to uphold his complaint for 
this reason I would need to see strong evidence that this was the information Mr G was 
given at the time, and I havent seen this.
The Platinum account also offered benefits which included worldwide travel insurance. 
mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover (including home start) and sentinel card cover.
Mr G has made use of the travel insurance, and the breakdown cover that were included 
with the Platinum account, including the home start section of the breakdown policy that was 
not available with any of Lloyds lower level package bank accounts.
While Mr G has not made use of the mobile phone cover and tells us he was not aware he 
had to register his mobile phone for this to take effect, this option has always been available 
to him. 
Its often the case that customers with a package bank account dont make use of all the 
benefits. Such as breakdown cover if they dont drive, but this doesnt mean the account was 
unsuitable or mis-sold to them.
From the information available its clear that Mr G was aware of the cost associated with the 
Platinum account and utilised many of its benefits over the years. So, I think Lloyds 
recommendation for him to take the account was reasonable and beneficial to Mr G 
considering his circumstances at the time.
If Mr G felt he was able to match the benefits offered by the account at a lower price through 
different providers, it would have been for him to evaluate his circumstances himself and 
make necessary adjustments.
With the above in mind I dont think Mr Gs Platinum account was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman