DRN-2369808
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr C in 2006, in connection with a mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Cs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr C the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr C is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr C says he was pressured by Halifax into buying the policy, and that the bank didnt give 
him a proper choice. He says Halifax told him he was more likely to get the mortgage he 
wanted if he bought the PPI. Ive noted everything Mr C has said.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats not 
surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr C and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But I can see from Halifaxs records that the PPI was discussed during the sales process, 
along with other types of insurance and protection. Halifaxs notes say:
TMPP  LC [life cover] NOT RECOMMENDED AS SINGLE NO DEPENDANTS. CI [critical 
illness] DECLINED WITH HALIFAX AS APP WILL TAKE OUT POLICY THROUGH 
WORKMRC [mortgage repayment cover] TAKEN. APP IS FULLY AWARE OF RISKS OF 
NOT BEING COVERED.
This suggests to me that the various forms of cover were discussed with Mr C, and it seems 
he decided against some of them because they either werent suitable or he could get 
alternative cover elsewhere. So I think he wouldve realised he had a choice about what he 
was buying. And Ive seen nothing else to suggest that buying the PPI was condition of 
getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Mr C has told me, I havent been able to safely 
conclude that Halifax didnt make him aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Halifax accepts that it advised Mr C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident. Hes also mentioned a third party insurance policy he had, although he hasnt been 
able to provide any evidence of what that policy covered.
But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs employer sick pay and any other 
benefits he had, and wouldve meant he could use those benefits to pay for other expenses if 
he couldnt work. 
So overall I think Mr C would have had some use for the policy despite his existing 
arrangements.
- Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those 
affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr C needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the policys cost was made clear to Mr C before he agreed to buy it. But the 
policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr C would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a different decision if 
better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman