DRN-4325047
The complaint
Ms G complains about the interest shes been charged on her mortgage with UCB Home 
Loans Corporation Ltd. In particular, she says the interest rate is unfairly high and UCB has 
never offered her a new fixed rate.
What happened
Ms G has a mortgage with UCB, taken out in 2004. She had an initial tracker rate which ran 
for two years, and in 2006 she took another two year tracker rate, set at 0.49% above the 
Bank of England base rate until 2008. The 2006 rate switch offer said that from 2008 Ms Gs 
mortgage would revert to UCBs Loyalty Flexible Variable Rate (LFVR)
Between 2008 and 2020, Ms G was on the LFVR. In March 2020, Ms G took a new fixed 
rate on her mortgage. 
Ms G complained. She said she had never been offered a new fixed interest rate before 
March 2020. She said she had asked about a new rate many times over the years, but had 
been told there was nothing UCB could offer her. She also complained that the interest rate 
she had been charged was unfairly high and didnt reflect the Bank of England base rate. 
UCB said it wrote to Ms G in 2006 reminding her that her interest rate was coming to an end, 
and she got in touch to arrange a new one. It wrote again in 2008, and this time Ms G didnt 
apply for a new rate until 2020. It said it was up to Ms G to apply for a new rate if she wanted 
one. It said that it had charged interest fairly, and the LFVR wasnt linked to the Bank of 
England base rate. It said Ms G could have applied for a new rate at any time between 2008 
and 2020. And it said Ms Gs complaint was out of time.
Our investigator agreed that part of Ms Gs complaint had been made out of time. But she 
said we could consider the fairness of the interest rate charged, and whether UCB should 
fairly have offered her a new interest rate, from April 2014 onwards. Thats six years before 
Ms G first made this complaint.
Ms G said she had contacted UCB many times since April 2014 to ask for a new rate, but 
had repeatedly been told there was nothing available. But our investigator wasnt persuaded 
that Ms G had asked for a new rate before 2020  and said that there were times when she 
wouldnt have been eligible for a new interest rate. She also didnt think UCB had charged 
Ms G unfairly while she was on the LFVR. Ms G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although both parties accepted what the investigator said about this, Ill start by saying that I 
agree that I can only consider the fairness of interest charged from April 2014 onwards. 
Thats because we can only consider a complaint about things that happened within six 
years of it first being made  unless Ms G complained within three years of when she knew 
or ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint, or unless there are exceptional 
circumstances that explain why she didnt complain in time. We can also consider a 
complaint brought of time if the firm complained about consents, but UCB hasnt consented 
in this case  as its entitled to do.
Im satisfied that Ms G ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint about the 
interest she was charged around the time she was charged it, and would have known that 
the rate was not changing in line with the Bank of England base rate. She also ought 
reasonably to have known that she was on the LFVR not a preferential rate and that UCB 
hadnt made one available to her after the end of her previous rate. And Ive not seen 
evidence of any exceptional circumstances that prevented her complaining before she did.
For those reasons, I will only consider the fairness of the interest Ms G was charged from 
April 2014 onwards. But in considering that, I will need to take into account changes to the 
LFVR before that date to the extent that they impacted on the fairness of the LFVR charged 
after that date  as they are part of all the circumstances of the complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the LFVR  including historic changes, since Ms Gs mortgage was 
taken out. Thats because the fairness of the LFVR since April 2014 isnt the result only of 
decisions UCB made during that period, but also potentially the result of decisions it made 
earlier. In doing so, Ive considered the information UCB has provided to us about its 
reasons for varying the LFVR in the way it did and the mortgage conditions applicable, 
alongside external reference rates such as Bank of England base rate, and wider economic 
conditions. Ive also kept in mind relevant law, including the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999.
Having done so, I dont think UCB varied the LFVR in a way it wasnt permitted to do. It was 
varied for reasons allowed under the mortgage conditions, and where it didnt vary in line 
with Bank of England base rate changes, UCB has provided details of its funding costs and 
how those costs informed its decisions to vary the rate. This includes the period where the 
LFVR fell  but not to the same extent as base rate  between 2007 and 2009, as well as 
when it was increased in 2010. 
Nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions, or Ms Gs mortgage offer, says that the LFVR 
that would apply after the end of the tracker rate in 2008 was linked to base rate, or that it 
would have to change at the same time or to the same extent as base rate. In changing the 
LFVR, UCB acted within the terms and conditions. Im therefore satisfied that the level of the 
LFVR applicable from April 2014, and the changes made to it thereafter, were fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I have also borne in mind that while Ms Gs mortgage was subject to the LFVR, there were 
no early repayment charges, for example  so she could have re-mortgaged elsewhere or 
asked UCB about any fixed or tracker rates it was offering without having to pay an early 
repayment charge.
Ms G said she did ask UCB about making changes to her interest rate. She says she asked 
many times, but was always told  until 2020  that no interest rate was available to her.
Ive considered what Ms G says about this. And Ive also considered UCBs records. I cant 
consider anything that happened before April 2014. Since then, there were a few occasions 
where UCB recorded contact with Ms G in 2014, 2015 and 2016  its notes record 
discussions about making payments (Ms G was receiving support for mortgage interest at 
the time, and had to pay the remainder by standing order as UCB couldnt take direct debits 
for part of a monthly payment). But theres nothing recorded about a discussion about interest rates.
From 2016 to 2020, UCB has no record of contact from Ms G. And then in 2020 she does 
ask for  and is given  a new interest rate.
Ms G told our investigator that she asked UCB for a new interest rate in 2014. Theres no 
record in UCBs notes of that request. I appreciate Ms G remembers making it  but that was 
many years ago and memory can be unreliable. I bear in mind that at no stage has UCB 
stopped offering rates to existing customers. And while Ms G has been in arrears  to a very 
minor extent  from time to time, it doesnt appear that was enough to make her ineligible for 
a new rate. 
Around this time, Ms G was asking UCB about letting out the property. It said it could 
consider a request for consent to let, but if Ms G wanted to formally switch to a buy to let 
mortgage, shed need to apply to another lender (such as UCBs sister company, The 
Mortgage Works) because UCB no longer offered new lending. 
It's possible Ms G is mis-remembering this conversation  which was some years before her 
complaint  and now recalls (genuinely, but mistakenly) that it was about the interest rate on 
her existing mortgage rather than changing it to another mortgage. Its also possible that the 
passage of time has caused her to mis-remember what happened for another reason.
Ms G has said she asked UCB about rates on other occasions, but she hasnt been able to 
give us specific details about those conversations. 
Because memory is unreliable, and because the conversation Ms G recalls was so long ago, 
I have to place considerable weight on the documentary evidence of the time. UCBs notes 
dont record that Ms G asked about an interest rate. If she had asked, given that UCB had 
them available and she was eligible for one, I cant see why it would have withheld one from 
her.
Theres no requirement for UCB  or any lender  to contact an existing customer to invite 
them to apply for a new rate. If the borrower wants to make a change to their mortgage, its 
up to them to apply. There are good reasons why a lender shouldnt just impose a new rate 
on an existing mortgage. Not all customers want a new rate  they may be thinking of 
selling, or switching to buy to let, or want to be able to make new payments. And sometimes 
customers just overlook the need to apply. UCB knew that Ms G knew how to ask for a new 
rate if she wanted to do so  because she had done so before, in 2006, and because it 
reminded her on her annual statements. 
Ive taken into account what Ms G has said, and her recollections. But even so, Im not 
persuaded that I can safely find that Ms G asked UCB for a new rate and was turned down 
between April 2014 and April 2020. In the absence of such a request it wouldnt be 
appropriate for UCB to impose a new rate on her mortgage, and there was no obligation for 
it to remind her that she needed to apply. In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair 
that Ms Gs mortgage remained on the LFVR between 2006 and 2020. As Ive already found 
that there was nothing unfair about what she was charged on the LFVR, I dont therefore 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman