DRN-2425345
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S are unhappy about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
settled a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mr B and Mrs S noticed water leaking through their kitchen ceiling, which they 
thought was coming from the bathroom above when the shower was in use. Mr B and Mrs S 
contacted LV to make a claim. LV assessed the damage and declined the claim. It said the 
damage was caused by wear and tear as water was seeping through the sealant around the 
bath.
When Mr B and Mrs S complained to LV, it maintained its decision, so they complained to 
this service. Our investigator said that LV should carry out a further inspection to see if there 
was a further leak and pay £100 compensation. LV agreed to this.
LV sent a contractor to inspect the damage. The contractor found a leak and, as a gesture of 
goodwill, stopped it. However, the contractor used an incorrect cap on the leaking pipe, so a 
short time later it leaked again. Mr B and Mrs S used their own contractor to stop the leak. 
LV reimbursed Mr B and Mrs S for the contractors error.
LV continued to look into the claim and what was covered. It accepted the claim under the 
escape of water part of the policy. LV said this covered the kitchen ceiling repair, the 
damage from the trace and access carried out to find the leak and the repair of the pipe. 
However, LV said the damage to the bedroom wall wasnt covered as this was the result of 
failed sealant in the bathroom, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr B and Mrs S complained to LV. When LV replied, it maintained its decision only to pay for 
the damage related to the kitchen ceiling.
So, Mr B and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said that she thought it was reasonable for LV not to repair the other damage as it 
wasnt covered under the terms of the policy.
As Mr B and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV agreed to pay for the damage to the kitchen ceiling because this was caused by an 
escape of water from a pipe, which was covered by the policy. However, it wouldnt cover 
the damage in the bedroom or to the bathroom floorboards because it said this was caused 
by faulty sealant around the bath, which wasnt covered by the policy as it was wear and 
tear. So, Ive looked at whether I think that was reasonable.
I can see that at one point LV said the damage in the bedroom was caused by a fault with 
the sealant around the bedroom window. When Mr B said that he didnt think this was the 
cause, Im satisfied that LV took a detailed look at whether that was the reason for the 
damage and then decided that it wasnt. Im also satisfied that it didnt turn down the part of 
the claim for the damage to the bedroom and bathroom floorboards on that basis. However, 
LV still remained of the view that this damage wasnt covered because it was due to wear 
and tear. 
I confirmed with LV where the dripping pipe was located that was leaking through the kitchen 
ceiling. LV explained that it was in the space between the bathroom floorboards and the 
kitchen ceiling. So, on that basis, I dont think a dripping pipe in that position was likely to 
have caused the damage in the bedroom, which was located next to the bathroom, or to the 
bathroom floor. 
Ive also thought about the issues with the sealant around the bath. When LV was first told 
about the claim in 2019, it sent a company to carry out trace and access to identify the 
source of the leak. That company found that the seals around the bath and tiles were letting 
water pass and that when weight was added to the bath it moved 2-3mm, which was the 
main reason the silicone was failing. Mr B and Mrs S arranged for the sealant to be replaced 
themselves.
When LV sent contractors in 2020, the sealant had already been replaced. However, one of 
the contractors said the sealant needed to be replaced again. So I think there was an 
ongoing issue with the sealant that was allowing water through and that this was likely to 
have been an issue for some time. LVs contractors assessed that the damage in the 
bedroom and to the bathroom floor was caused by water getting through the sealant. So, I 
think it was reasonable for LV to turn down that part of the claim on the basis of wear and 
tear.
Im aware that Mr B and Mrs S have also said that one of LVs contractors said he thought 
the sealant around the bath looked fine. However, a few days later, another of LVs 
contractors said he didnt think the sealant was in good condition. Although I can understand 
this was frustrating for Mr B and Mrs S, it doesnt persuade me that LV should pay for the 
damage in the bedroom or to the bathroom floorboards. This is because LV didnt apply the 
sealant, so it wasnt responsible for the quality of that work. It also wasnt responsible for 
checking it was done to a particular standard. 
When LVs contractors saw the sealant in 2019, Mr B and Mrs S were told it needed to be 
replaced. Mr B and Mrs S then replaced it but it seems the new sealant wasnt good enough. 
So, I think any damage caused by water leaking through the sealant was most likely caused 
by the ongoing issue with the sealant. I dont think the few days between one contractor 
saying the sealant looked ok and another saying it needed replacing was a significant factor. 
Im also aware that the first contractor found a dripping pipe and attempted a repair. I 
understand they werent meant to attempt a repair, but did so anyway and used the wrong 
cap on the pipe. The pipe started to drip again, so Mr B and Mrs S got a private plumber to 
replace the cap. When Mr B and Mrs S told LV what had happened, LV offered to pay for the 
cost of the plumber. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B and Mrs S have also said that had LV sent someone to check for another leak sooner 
that the claim would have been dealt with more quickly. The issue about LV sending 
someone again was dealt with as part of Mr B and Mrs Ss first complaint to this service 
about this claim. That was resolved by LV accepting our investigators findings. As a result, 
LV sent someone to carry out a further inspection and paid Mr B and Mrs S some 
compensation. I therefore wont be revisiting that here.However, Ive looked at how LV dealt with the claim after that. Having done so, I can see 
that LV promptly appointed a company to see if it could find another leak. There appears to 
have been some discussion around agreeing a suitable date for the visit because of issues 
related to Covid 19 restrictions. I can see that a date a few months away was originally 
agreed for the visit but that this was moved to an earlier date when circumstances allowed. I 
think that was reasonable in the circumstances and that the leak detection and the repairs to 
the kitchen then progressed. I havent seen anything that causes me to think that LV failed to 
progress the claim in a timely manner once it arranged for the new inspection to take place.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require LV to do anything 
further. I think it was reasonable for LV only to pay for the damage related to the kitchen 
ceiling and not to pay for the damage in the bedroom or to the bathroom floorboards.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman