DRN-3503716
The complaint
Mrs N complained as she thought shed suffered financial loss as SJP hadnt acted in the 
way she thought they ought to have done.
What happened
Mrs N had an existing relationship with the adviser, who was an appointed representative of 
SJP about whom she complains.
In the autumn of 2019 Mrs N met with the adviser and its said there were discussions about 
Mrs Ns financial circumstances and future requirements. Mrs N had a number of pension 
plans with different providers and she signed letters of authority to enable the adviser to 
obtain the information on these plans. 
Mrs N wanted to transfer and consolidate her arrangements to facilitate flexi-access 
drawdown and to obtain the tax-free lump sum in July 2020 when she reached the required 
age. Mrs N had plans for this money.
In late October and 11 November 2019, the various providers returned the plan information 
for Mrs Ns arrangements to the adviser. On 3 and 11 December 2019 there were meetings 
between Mrs N and the adviser. 
Mrs N says she discussed moving her pensions funds and keeping a sum in cash, in the 3 
December 2019 meeting, but she wanted to discuss this with her husband and so a further 
meeting was arranged when Mr N attended too. 
A fact find was completed at the 11 December meeting. This recorded Mrs Ns priority was 
to access her tax-free lump sum at the age of 55. It also indicated the intended investment 
plan for her amalgamated pension funds.
Mrs N says she signed lots of documents at this meeting. I previously indicated I didnt think 
wed seen anything signed and dated by Mrs N from this date. Mrs N suggests the adviser 
didnt do anything with what she signed. Our understanding is that Mrs N initially thought she 
had completed instructions at this date. She says it was only later she was told she hadnt 
completed instructions and nothing had been done.
On 23 January 2020 the adviser proposed a meeting with Mrs N at her office on 28 January 
2020, however Mrs N wasnt available. Mrs N says nothing was discussed on 23 January 
2022; SJP dont disagree.
On 28 February 2020 in an email to Mrs Ns husband, the adviser asked about Mrs Ns 
availability to meet. Mr N replied the next day, copying in Mrs N, to arrange a meeting 
between himself, his wife, and the adviser.
Mrs N contacted the adviser on 12 March and said:
Can we organise to see you sooner rather than later, need to ensure my pension pot is
protected at least until July?
Meeting dates were arranged initially for 18 March 2020 and then moved to 19 March 2020 
(which its suggested was conducted by way of a telephone call). I have seen Mrs N refers to 
having seen the adviser at her home on 18 March 2020 and not the next day. However 
nothing turns on this. Mrs N says it was when she spoke to the adviser at this time, she 
discovered nothing had yet happened with her pension plans and they had not been moved 
from their original providers. Mrs N says she had not known this before. She says the 
adviser let her know she could arrange to move them, but she and her husband queried why 
they would do this, now the values had reduced.
Mrs N went on to contact the adviser the next day. She let the adviser know she no longer 
wanted him to act on her behalf. She said she was disappointed the adviser had not acted 
on her instructions in January to transfer her funds into cash to secure the lump sum she 
required in July 2020. Mrs N said the fund was 13% less in value compared to January and 
she now intended to wait for the value to rise and withdraw at that stage; and she didnt think 
that would be likely to be in July. At this stage she referred to considering the adviser was 
liable for a loss of around £5,000 based on his failure to implement instructions in January. 
There have also been references to other sums, up to a total loss of £14,000 being 
suggested.
Its understood Mrs N went ahead and consolidated her pension arrangements with and took 
the tax-free cash as had been intended.
SJP provided a response to Mrs Ns complaint. They said there had been no instructions in 
January, and a stage had not been reached when formal and regulated advice on transfer 
had been provided. SJP did not accept their adviser had done anything wrong, and there 
had not been any delay. They indicated that their appointed representative adviser didnt 
have the necessary permissions to advise on this switch/ transfer. SJP stressed their adviser 
had only provided forms that were completed in respect of giving the pension providers 
permissions to provide their adviser with information Mrs Ns arrangements. SJP didnt 
accept there was information that established that a fund switch had been completed or that 
one had been instructed to proceed.
Mrs N didnt agree and referred the matter to this service. 
An investigator considered what was said. He concluded there had been misunderstandings. 
These included around understanding what needed to be completed prior to transfer. He 
concluded there had not been any formal recommendations or a suitability report prepared 
by the time Mrs N dispensed with the services of the adviser. The investigator thought the 
timeline demonstrated the usual process was being followed by the adviser generally. He 
didnt think the necessary advice and instruction had been provided to proceed with any 
transfer. He acknowledged there would have needed to be compliance checks and cost 
agreements for example. Overall he concluded any fall in the value of the pension funds was 
not something that could have been avoided, nor did he consider SJP ought to be liable for 
any purported loss.
However he didnt think the adviser had been as prompt and expeditious in following up 
meetings with Mrs N, in particular after 11 December 2019 and from 23 January until 28 
February 2020. For this reason, he thought SJP ought to pay Mrs N £100 to represent this 
inconvenience.
Both Mrs N and SJP made further submissions and comments in response to the 
investigators view and recommendation. A point was reached where SJP accepted the recommendation, but Mrs N did not. The case was then referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
Mrs N stressed to the investigator after hed issued the view that shed dispensed with SJPs 
services once she said shed discovered the initial instruction hadnt been actioned. She was 
also unhappy shed been told by SJP that the adviser couldnt do what she said hed 
undertaken to do. Mrs N said she was concerned this was the real issue.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 10 May 2022. This was not because I 
disagreed with the investigator, but I wanted to share my thinking. Whilst I didnt think some 
things had been done as well as they could have been or ought to have been, overall I 
indicated I intended to make the same recommendation as the investigator, that SJP ought 
to pay Mrs N a sum of £100 to reflect what had gone wrong here.
Responses to provisional decision
SJP didnt have anything further to add. Mrs N let us know that she feels this experience and 
the loss in the value of her of funds (which she continues to feel are the responsibility of 
SJP), have made her very unwell and unhappy. She cant understand why SJP arent being 
asked to pay her a sum of reflect the fall in the value of her investments.
Mrs N has reiterated that she was under the impression her pension was being transferred 
to cash, and it wasnt. She trusted the adviser and had no idea he was unable to complete 
the actions for her. Mrs N referred to her husband, I am only looking at a complaint made by 
her against SJP and the service they provided to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry this will disappoint Mrs N, but I havent changed my thinking from that set out in 
my provisional decision. Whilst there are steps that could have been completed better, more 
clearly and/ or more expeditiously by the adviser, overall I dont think there is any financial 
loss that can be sufficiently or reasonably linked to any omissions or errors on the part of the 
adviser. I dont consider any delay to have been unreasonably significant and I consider the 
sum of £100 is in-line with whats fair here. SJP will need to pay this sum to Mrs N.
I have considered everything said and provided with real care. I have looked at the timeline 
of events and meetings. I have taken into account what would need to be completed, to 
enable an advised transfer of the arrangements Mrs N had in place, into a new arrangement, 
to enable drawdown in due course. I have also considered whether the time taken in this 
matter might be considered reasonable or not. I have seen that not all of Mrs Ns identified 
pension arrangements had been held in personal pension plans in late 2019.
Mrs N says she believed the adviser had switched or transferred her various pensions held 
with other providers, and this had been agreed with him. So she is unhappy he failed to act 
in the way she says he ought to have done.
In support of her thinking on this, she stresses the email she sent on 18 March 2020 to the 
adviser where she said:I suppose the saving grace is we ring fenced the cash as discussed in January so we've at 
least secured the cash lump sum.
It might be said the email Mrs N sent the week before, on 12 March 2020, could tend to 
suggest Mrs N knew matters hadnt yet been progressed:
Can we organise to see you sooner rather than later, need to ensure my pension pot is 
protected at least until July?
I accept this email can be read in different ways. I also accept Mrs N has been consistent 
throughout, in her complaint that the adviser failed to arrange the transfer she believed had 
been agreed; and which she says shed thought had been done.
The transfers didnt happen. The adviser and SJP had not completed the necessary steps to 
enable any transfer or switch to be completed. I accept from the fact find document this was 
very much at the centre of what was being looked at. The fact find clearly sets this out as 
what was wanted and why. But that doesnt mean the adviser had reached the stage where 
he (or any other SJP adviser) was able to go ahead and arrange any transfer. 
If this particular adviser didnt have the necessary permissions to advise and complete the 
transfers, as SJP say, this doesnt mean SJP would not have been in a position, once further 
stages and agreements were reached, to be able to facilitate this. 
It appears to me there was a failure in communication between Mrs N and the adviser in 
December 2019 and January 2020. I havent seen anything that makes me think this was 
deliberate on the part of the adviser, or that he had set out to mislead Mrs N. I am not 
persuaded on balance, the adviser understood at these times, Mrs N thought he was already 
arranging the transfers. 
I would be surprised in the circumstances if the adviser had positively undertaken to 
progress the switches and transfers on Mrs Ns behalf himself and at this early stage; he 
would not have been able to do so, and the adviser would know this. Further steps needed 
to be completed administratively and to meet regulated requirements on such advice and 
activities; and another adviser would potentially have needed to become involved. 
There would have been no advantage to the adviser to mislead Mrs N. The adviser did not 
have the requisite customer authority to go ahead, and Mrs N had not indicated in writing to 
her providers that she wanted her arrangements moved. In addition, it appears this adviser 
didnt have the regulatory permissions, and this would have needed to be dealt with by 
someone else at SJP. I havent seen there was any receiving arrangement in place or 
agreed, for Mrs Ns funds (albeit I accept Ive seen there were plans around how her funds 
were to be invested in the short to medium term).
Based on everything Ive seen, it is more likely than not that Mrs N and the adviser 
understood what Mrs N wanted to do and why, but there wasnt a shared understanding 
about what needed to be done and the likely timescales. I dont see this as an error that can 
be considered the responsibility of the adviser here.
The requisite further steps to be completed would have taken some further time. But theres 
nothing to suggest the time that was likely to be required, would have prevented Mrs N 
achieving her aim of accessing funds when she reached 55 in July 2020, had matters 
remained with SJP. Based on what Ive seen the adviser was attempting to progress Mrs Ns 
interests, albeit I accept, not as expeditiously as he might have done.The adviser could have done more, after the contact in mid-December 2019 up to 23 
January 2020, and then in particular from 23 January 2020 to the 28 February 2020, to offer 
and arrange further meetings.
Equally it might be said that had Mrs N felt any personal drive to progress matters faster, she 
could have contacted the adviser for an appointment. I accept she says she thought her 
plans had been moved, however Im not entirely clear on why she thought the further 
appointments were needed if she considered her plans had been transferred and an amount 
placed in cash. Given the fact find recorded the intention for 25% to be left in cash to be 
accessed in July 2020 and the other 75% to be invested into a managed fund, it might be 
thought, based on what Mrs N says, that if she considered matters discussed in December 
2020 had been actioned, there was nothing left to complete. 
Ive previously indicated I wasnt entirely clear why Mrs N had referred to saying the adviser 
had been instructed to complete her wishes in January 2020, as I didnt think Id seen 
anything to demonstrate contact between Mrs N and the adviser in January 2020, save the 
attempts to arrange a meeting. Mrs Ns email of 18 March 2020 also refers to discussions 
having taken place in January 2020. As I previously indicated I dont think anything turns on 
this, as Mrs N also seems to have referred to thinking the adviser had been instructed in 
December 2019.
For completeness, Mrs N told SJP their adviser had failed to do what he said hed do, and 
the email trails would confirm this. I dont think the email trails do demonstrate this.
 
Mrs N noted shed sent emails that demonstrated to the adviser, shed thought the adviser 
had done what she believed him to have done, and hed not corrected her. In particular this 
seems to refer to the email of 18 March 2020. Whilst I understand Mrs Ns point, and it 
appears the adviser didnt correct her in any email response, its clear that when they spoke 
shortly after this email was sent, Mrs N was aware or made aware no pension arrangements 
had yet been moved. On balance, it might be thought, this email demonstrates the 
misunderstanding at most.
As Ive explained even if there had been some misunderstanding, theres nothing here that 
makes me think it was deliberate on the part of the adviser, or that the adviser was or ought 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs N might be operating under a misapprehension as to 
what was happening, until potentially 18 March 2020.
However SJPs adviser could have done better in the service provided when it came to 
arranging meetings; and in respect of the inconvenience caused to Mrs N. SJP will need to 
pay Mrs N £100 to reflect this. 
 
I dont conclude SJP and their adviser ought to, or were able to, have transferred or switched 
Mrs Ns pensions in January 2020, or at any time before she dispensed with their services. 
There wasnt any substantive error or delay meaning SJP ought to be considered liable for 
any drop in the value of her funds prior to transfer. Mrs Ns plans werent moved, but nor 
were they likely to have been able to be moved before the fall in value. I dont consider there 
is any significant link that can be established between a failure or delay on SJPs part and 
any financial reduction in Mrs Ns pension funds that was likely to have otherwise been 
avoided.
Ive seen Mrs N will be disappointed with my decision and that she has shared with us how 
she has felt impacted here. I accept things could have been done better, but I dont think that 
even if meetings had taken place sooner in 2020 its likely on balance, the transfers would 
have been completed prior to the changes in value Mrs N is unhappy about; nor do I think it would be reasonable here, to conclude SJP ought to be liable for the impact of the changes 
in value on Mrs Ns funds.
Putting things right
SJP will need to pay Mrs N the sum of £100 within 28 days of being informed of Mrs Ns 
acceptance of my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mrs Ns complaint against St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc in part. They are required to pay Mrs N the sum of £100 within 28 days of 
being informed of Mrs Ns acceptance of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman