DRN-3698993
The complaint
Mr J complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (trading as Interactive Investor):
-  gave him incorrect information regarding whether he could make an in-specie 
transfer to its platform; and
-  took an excessive amount of time to allocate his money to his ISA account.
In order to put matters right Mr J wants Interactive Investor (II) to pay him around £10,000 to 
compensate him for the movement in the value of his holding while he was out of the market.
What happened
Mr Js ceding ISA provider notified II on 2 March 2022, that it was unable to convert his 
holding into a share class that II could support. II relayed this information to Mr J on three 
separate occasions. On 21 March 2022, Mr J instructed II to sell his holding and transfer the 
proceeds to his II ISA. II submitted Mr Js instructions to his ceding ISA provider on 22 March 
2022.
I understand that on 24 March 2022, Mr J asked II to put his request on hold as he did not 
want to incur dealing fees when he reinvested his money. II told Mr J that he would need to 
contact the ceding ISA provider directly as it had already passed on his instructions to sell 
his holding to the ceding provider. II subsequently agreed Mr J could place a commission 
free trade with it, so he could reinvest his money without incurring dealing charges.
The ceding provider sent Mr Js money to II on 30 March 2022. Unfortunately, it appears it 
did not provide a reference that would have allowed II to match the payment to Mr Js ISA 
account. As II couldnt match the payment to an account the money was returned to the 
ceding provider. The money was re-sent by the ceding provider and was allocated to Mr Js 
ISA account with II on 19 April 2022.
II accepted that it could have done more to match the payment it received from Mr Js ceding 
ISA provider, and it paid Mr J £50 for this failing on its part. It has subsequently offered to 
pay Mr J a further £50, but it said it felt that the ceding provider was the root cause of the 
delays Mr J experienced.
Mr J was not satisfied with IIs response and referred the matter to this service. Having 
considered Mr Js complaint, our investigator said she was of the view that the offer II had 
made to Mr J was fair as she didnt think it had caused any avoidable delays. 
Mr J did not accept our investigators view. He referred to a message II had sent to his wife 
which Mr J said he understood to mean that II could have arranged an in-specie transfer and 
then a same day conversion to a share class that Mr J could hold on IIs platform. Mr J said 
he understood that II could have received the units and done a conversion on the same 
day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Js position, and I have very carefully considered the information he 
has provided, including the messages II sent to Mr Js wife. From the records I have seen it 
appears similar information was also provided to Mr J.
On 17 February 2022, II messaged Mr J, it said:
We emailed you relating to some unsupported assets in your transfer which are not available 
in our stock universe. To be fair and transparent we only offer the standard cleanest share 
classes with no incentives given to us by fund managers I have listed below the options 
available to you regarding the unsupported asset
In order to proceed please choose from the following options:
-Convert unsupported asset to another share class
-Sell the unsupported asset and transfer resulting cash balance
-Exclude unsupported asset from the transaction and keep them with your 
current provider.
Mr J instructed II to proceed with conversion to I class units. II instructed the ceding ISA 
provider accordingly. Unfortunately, the ceding ISA provider responded to II to say that:
The pre-transfer conversions cannot be placed as the client is not permitted to hold the I 
class share.
I appreciate that Mr J feels that II should have been able to accept an in-specie transfer and 
then convert his holding to the class I shares, but this is not how the process works. Ill 
explain why.
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out that if a client 
requests an in-specie transfer the ceding platform  must request the fund manager to 
carry out the relevant unit class conversion, and take any other reasonable steps to bring it 
about;
As Mr J will appreciate, as II cannot accept the class of share he wanted to transfer, it 
wouldnt be possible for it to accept an in-specie transfer and then liaise with the fund 
manager to arrange for his holding to be converted to a share class II could accept. In line 
with FCA requirements (I have set out the relevant rule below) the transfer needed to be 
completed by the fund manager before an in-specie transfer to II took place. 
COBS 6.1H.4 R 01/02/2021
If the client instructs the platform service provider to proceed with a transfer of units, then: 
1. (2) 
if the client has chosen an in-specie transfer in accordance with COBS 6.1H.3R(1) and 
a unit class conversion is required to enable or facilitate such transfer, the ceding 
platform must request the fund manager to carry out the relevant unit class conversion, 
and take any other reasonable steps to bring it about; In light of the regulatory requirement for the ceding platform to request the conversion, I cant 
reasonably find that II should have arranged the conversion.
It is not clear to me why the ceding provider said Mr J was unable to hold the class I shares, 
but this is not something I can reasonably hold II responsible for.
I am mindful that in the message Mr Js wife received from II it did not explain whether the 
ceding provider or II would contact the fund manager to request the conversion. But I think 
the information II provided in this message was provided in good faith, based on the belief 
that the fund manager would be able to carry out the conversion. In the absence of anything 
to show that II accepted an in-specie transfer of Mrs Js holding in the same unsupported 
asset and then arranged for it to be converted to a class I share, I cant reasonably accept 
this message as proof that II was able to accept an in-specie transfer of Mr Js holding and 
then arrange for the conversion to take place. 
With regard to the delays in transferring Mr Js money to II, as our investigator set out, it 
appears these delays were not due to failings on IIs part. I therefore dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to require II to pay any more compensation than it has already offered to 
Mr J.
I do appreciate that this is not the decision Mr J was hoping for, but I hope my explanation 
will provide him with clarity on which party was responsible for contacting the fund manager 
to request the conversion of his holding to an asset class he could hold on IIs platform.
   
My final decision
Having carefully considered this complaint my decision is that I dont think Interactive 
Investor Services Limited (trading as Interactive Investor) needs to do any more than it has 
already offered to resolve Mr Js complaint.
I simply leave it to Mr J to decide if he now wishes to accept the additional £50 it has offered 
to pay him, in addition to the £50 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman