DRN-3793364
The complaint
Miss L, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when she 
was on benefits and could not afford the repayments. 
What happened
Miss L took three loans. Her representative has said it was two but Morses has provided this 
loan table in its final response letter (FRL) dated June 2022 and it lists three loans. I have 
proceeded on the information Morses has provided. 
Loan Start Date Capital 
AmountTerm Repayment 
amount
1 23/08/2018 £100.00 20 £7.50
2 27/11/2018 £200.00 33 £10.00
3 13/06/2019 £300.00 33 £15.00
From Morses repayment records it seems that Loan 2 may have been repaid alongside loan 
3  meaning that they overlapped but probably only for a short time. And Morses has 
informed us that on 10 April 2020 loan 3 was sold to a debt collection agency and the 
amount owed at that date was £245. 
Morses FRL did not uphold her complaint and so it was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service after which one of our adjudicators reviewed it. She did not think that 
the evidence pointed towards any irresponsible lending and did not uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. 
Miss Ls representative ahs asked for an ombudsmans review but has sent no further 
evidence to support her claim. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss L could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ls 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Miss L. These factors include:
Miss L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss L. 
Morses was required to establish whether Miss L could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss L was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Ls complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. 
No credit check was carried out by Morses for Miss L which is not contrary to the regulations 
with which Morses had to comply. And I am satisfied that for these loans of £100, £200 and 
£300 respectively which were relatively modest and for relatively short terms (particularly 
loan 1 which was for £100 and 20 weeks) then it was proportionate for Morses to rely on the 
information Miss L provided to it.
Here is a summary of the income and expenditure details Morses has told us that Miss L 
provided:
LOAN INCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
1 £224.00 £165.00 £59.00
2 £200.00 £170.00 £30.00
3 £357.84 £208.00 £149.84
Morses said that it would have verified her income and I note that her income reduced for 
loan 2 and increased for loan 3. 
But as I consider that proportionate checks were carried out, and in the absence of any 
information from Miss Ls representative to persuade me otherwise, then it seems that when 
Miss L applied for the loans Morses would have determined them affordable. 
I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman