DRN-3303416
The complaint
Mr C complains LeasePlan UK Limited invoiced him unfairly at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had a hire agreement with LeasePlan for a van. The term was due to end in March 
2020, at which point LeasePlan should have collected the van. However, a national 
lockdown brought about by the pandemic meant this couldnt happen. So LeasePlan 
suspended payments and agreed to collect the van when it could. I accept this would have 
been inconvenient for Mr C but these were unusual times and I find LeasePlan acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances. 
A collection was booked for June 2020. Mr C says no one turned up. LeasePlan say an 
agent arrived but was told Mr C planned on purchasing the van so the collection was 
cancelled. Mr C has suggested in the absence of compelling evidence, such as a signed 
document showing he wanted to purchase the van or tracking data to show the agent 
attended his property, I should find in his favour. I understand his position. But my role is to 
decide, based on the information available to me, on the balance of probabilities, what I 
consider most likely to have happened. Having done so, Im persuaded its most likely an 
agent did attend the collection. Ill explain why.
In April 2020 Mr C indicated he wanted to purchase the van. In September 2020 he made 
further enquiries about purchasing the van, and later did so in December 2020. So Im 
satisfied there was an intention on Mr Cs part to purchase the van, meaning a collection 
wouldnt have been in his interests. Further, I havent been provided with persuasive 
evidence to suggest Mr C made meaningful attempts to re-arrange the collection in July or 
August 2020  something I would have expected to see had he wanted to return the van to 
avoid the inconvenience of having it on his drive and the cost of insuring it, as he has said 
was the case.   
When Mr C purchased the van in December 2020 he was invoiced for rentals from April to 
December 2020. He doesnt consider being asked to pay these was fair. In response to the 
complaint LeasePlan waived the rentals for April to June 2020 on the basis it wasnt Mr Cs 
fault the van couldnt be collected. So whats left in dispute is the July to December 2020 
rentals.
As set out above, Im persuaded the van could have been returned in June 2020. The van 
however, remained with Mr C. Also as set out above, Im not persuaded he made meaningful 
attempts to re-arrange the collection. And despite enquiring and seemingly agreeing to 
purchase the van in September 2020  thereby making a collection mute  the purchase 
didnt go ahead until December 2020. So Im satisfied the van remaining with Mr C, despite 
him not owning it, from June to December 2020, wasnt because of a mistake by LeasePlan. 
Mr C argues the agreement ended in March 2020 and questions the legality of him being 
asked to pay rentals beyond that date. I find the agreement makes provision for situations 
where a rental period is extended and in light of my findings above, in these specific 
circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for LeasePlan to ask Mr C to pay for the 
time the van was with him. 
Mr C was also invoiced for excess mileage. Its not in dispute Mr C exceeded his mileage 
allowance. The agreement allowed for excess mileage charges to apply, and I note 
LeasePlan made it clear Mr C would be charged for excess mileage regardless of whether 
he chose to purchase the van or not. I find no failings in LeasePlans actions regarding this 
invoice.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman