DRN-2763853
The complaint
Mr O complains about a series of trades he placed on Barclays Bank UK PLCs (Barclays) 
Smart Investor platform.
What happened
Mr O was a regular trader on the Smart Investor Platform, an execution only investment 
service. He encountered a series of difficulties with some trades, whereby the trade was 
blocked or cancelled. Mr O believes Barclays purposely blocked his account during live 
trading and this action was taken to extract money from him. Mr O was disappointed with the 
service provided by Barclays, especially as he had recommended the Smart Investor 
platform to several friends who then faced similar difficulties.
Mr O raised the following concerns:
22 July 2020  a limit order placed at 09.17 for BD shares, but it didnt go through. A later 
quote and trade deal was blocked. Mr O also complained about several unsuccessful 
attempts to trade MO shares on the same date, identifying three unsuccessful limit orders, 
an unsuccessful stop order and several unsuccessful quote and deal trades.
24 July 2020  access blocked message received.
27 July 2020  an at best order of ZM shares was cancelled without explanation.
14 August 2020  Barclays failed to cancel an at market order to sell 1,200,000 shares in IE.
14 and 17 August 2020  Quote and deal trades placed on each day for SM shares were 
unsuccessful.
Barclays say there are no faults with the platform. The problems encountered by Mr O were 
due to factors outside of Barclays control. They likely happened because he was trading 
more shares than the estimated market size or because there was no counter-party willing to 
buy the shares at the time. Barclays relied upon their terms and conditions and submitted 
that Mr O had the option of calling and speaking to an adviser when his trades were 
unsuccessful. Theyve repeatedly explained that this is the best option for an in the moment 
explanation to be given and to discuss the placing of different orders. Barclays 
acknowledged there had been a delay responding to Mr Os complaint, for which theyve 
paid compensation.
Our investigator considered Barclays terms and conditions and reviewed each trade 
complained about. He concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. He thought:
22 July 2020  the limit price for BD shares wasnt reached. A later quote and deal trade 
also failed to execute because the volume of shares exceeded the estimated market size. 
There were no issues with the platform that day and Mr O completed 21 successful trades 
that day.
As to the MO trade attempts, the evidence from the time showed that the share price was 
moving in the opposite direction to the price set to trigger the limit and stop orders. These 
orders were also cancelled by Mr O within a short timeframe. The likely reason for the quote 
and deal trades being unsuccessful was lack of a willing counterparty, rather than an error 
with the website.
24 July 2020  Barclays were having platform issues but customers were advised they trade 
by phone at internet commissions rates and Mr O did call to speak to an adviser.
27 July 2020  two attempts were made to place the at best order but no quotes were 
available from the market so the order was cancelled. Mr O was able to compete a quote 
and deal trade three minutes later.
14 August 2020  Mr O attempted to cancel an order within three minutes of having placed 
it. Barclays terms and conditions explained that they may not be able to stop a transaction 
once the process had begun.
14 and 17 August 2020  whilst three trades were unsuccessful across both days, five 
separate trades were successful, so it was likely that any failure was due lack of a wiling 
counterparty, rather than a problem with Barclays website. 
Mr O disagrees with the outcome. Further, he doesnt agree with some of the timings set out 
in the view and has asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
I have considered the documents relied upon by the parties in order to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the relevant terms and conditions:
All orders
All orders are subject to market volume and Counterparty behaviour and willingness to deal. 
Orders may only be executed if there is a willing Counterparty and where the operation of 
the relevant Rules of a market or exchange permits execution. 
Quote and deal
This is an Order you may give us to buy or sell a Security at a specified price made 
available to you through us whilst the relevant market is open (a Quote and Deal Order). If 
you do:
(a) We will obtain an immediate quote to deal from a Counterparty who is able and 
willing to accept the Order, subject to market conditions.
(b) We will endeavour to give you an opportunity to accept that quote within a period not 
exceeding 15 seconds.
(c) While you decide, this quote may be withdrawn by the Counterparty prior to the 
expiry of the period available to you to accept it due to various conditions that include 
market liquidity, order size and volatility of the investment.
A Quote and Deal Order, if accepted by you, guarantees Execution and dealing at the price 
specified if there is a willing Counterparty forth whole Order, subject to market behaviours.Limit
B2.2.5
Limit Orders will only be executed by us when the conditions set by you related to your 
Order have been met. When these are met, this means that it will be Executed by us as an 
At Best Order. If the Limit Price is not communicated to us by the relevant market or 
exchange in the period specified by the Order, the Order will lapse.
At Best
B2.2.1
An At Best Order guarantees Execution if there is a willing Counterparty for the whole Order 
subject to market behaviours, but does not guarantee the price at which your Order will deal 
at.
Exclusion for problems arising from the online platform
A3.6 We will not be liable for any Losses you may suffer due to any failure of the online 
services, including any Trading Platform, transmission failure or delays or similar technical 
errors, or problems with the software or data feeds provided by third parties, to the extent 
that the failure is beyond our reasonable control.
B1.1.6
Unless we have been negligent, we will not be liable for any Losses suffered by you as a 
result of the acts or omissions of any exchange, counterparty or clearing house or failure of 
that Trading Platform and its systems for technical reasons outside our control or any action 
reasonably taken by us as a result of those acts or omissions.
In my view it was clear from the terms and conditions that variable factors such as market 
volatility, the availability of a counterparty and the volume of shares being traded, all had a 
bearing on the success of an individual order. Section 2.3 also explained that not all orders 
will be executed and explained success was conditional on the market. Given, Mr Os 
experience, these were factors which he was likely aware of or ought reasonably to have 
been aware of.
Ive also taken into account the information provided at the time a trade was unsuccessful. 
On each occasion, Mr O would have received an error message saying the quote could not 
be processed, please retry. Or another message would have advised Mr O that access to 
the service was blocked and he should contact Barclays by phone to discuss the issue. Mr O 
accepts that he received rejection messages at the time. It was for him to decide whether or 
not to call Barclays dealing team on each occasion.
Ive listened to the call on 22 July 2020 when Mr O spoke to Barclays. He was advised there 
were a variety of reasons why quote and deal trades might not go through, such as the 
amount of shares being traded and market conditions. Barclays explained to Mr O that they 
did not control market conditions and there were inherent risks trading on the market. The 
adviser also explained the difference between at best and limit orders. He explained that 
it was for Mr O to decide which type of order to place on each occasion.
In light of the above, Im satisfied overall that Mr O was given clear, accurate and not 
misleading information about trading on the platform and Ive taken into account that he was 
an experienced trader.
As to each of the trades complained about, Ive reviewed the explanation advanced by 
Barclays and the supporting evidence, I think:22 July 2020  Barclayss evidence shows that the limit price for the BD shares wasnt 
reached at the time the order was placed. Mr O cancelled the order after three minutes. 
Mr O then attempted a quote and deal trade but the volume of shares exceeded the 
estimated market size, which is supported by the evidence from the time. Barclays have also 
pointed out that during this time the stock was volatile. The shares were successfully sold by 
9.31am and Mr O had successfully placed a trade on another stock in between, so I think its 
unlikely there was a fault with the system. 
As to the MO shares, its clear that the share price was volatile at the time Mr O was trying to 
place a trade, dropping from 48p to 30.5p over a nine-minute period. Theres nothing to 
show that the stop or limit order prices were reached and the timeline shows that the orders 
were cancelled quickly. Mr O was able to place successful quote and deal trades at prices 
below those set for the stop and limit orders. Theres nothing to show any fault by Barclays 
at the time.
24 July 2020  Barclays have conceded there was an issue with access to the online 
platform on 24 July 2020. Ive seen that Mr O spoke to Barclays and he was able to trade by 
phone using online rates. Under the terms and conditions, Barclays werent responsible for 
any problems with the system and Ive taken into account that Mr O hasnt said he lost out.
27 July 2020  Ive seen that Barclays did act to place the at best order of ZM shares, but 
as there were no valid quotes from the market the order was cancelled after two attempts. 
Mr O would have been aware that there was no guarantee such an order would go through. 
Ive seen that he was able to place a successful quote and deal trade within three minutes. 
Again, I havent seen anything which shows that an error was made by Barclays.
14 August 2020  I appreciate that Mr O was disappointed when his attempt to cancel an 
order failed, but on this occasion Barclays were unable to stop it once it was in progress and 
had been picked up by the market. This risk was set out clearly in the terms and conditions.
14 and 17 August 2020  Ive seen that two quote and deal trades failed on 14 August but 
others succeeded within two minutes before and after. Further, whilst a quote and deal trade 
failed on 17 August, again other trades succeeded within a minute. Given the timings, I think 
it is unlikely that there was an error with the online platform. I think its more likely that there 
wasnt a willing counterparty at the time the unsuccessful trades were placed.  
Having considered the timelines of events, supported by the contemporaneous evidence, Im 
satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong. Theres nothing to support Mr Os assertion 
that Barclays were deliberately preventing him trade. And whilst Mr O has said generally that 
he doesnt agree with some timings, he hasnt explained which timings he disagrees with 
and he hasnt provided any supporting evidence to undermine the reliability of the 
information provided by Barclays. Im satisfied that there has been reasonable time for such 
information to have been provided. In the absence of any such information, Im persuaded, 
on balance, that Barclays evidence is reliable. I find that the difficulties Mr O encountered 
were matters outside Barclays control. Even if there had been a fault with the website, 
(which I find there was not), Barclays terms and conditions exclude liability for any losses 
arising from this. And Ive noted that the option of telephone trading was available to Mr O at 
as an alternative.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, but for the reasons given I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman