DRN-2546945
The complaint
Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs S bought the policy in 1995 by post, when upgrading a credit card shed had since 1985. 
The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs S and Barclays a provisional decision on 29 December 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Ss upgrade application form had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It 
offered her the choice to take out a policy or turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, 
the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mrs S signed the form to confirm her choices. 
There was nothing which shouldve reasonably given Mrs S the impression she had to take 
out the PPI. And shed already had her credit card account for 10 years by this point, so she 
wouldve known she didnt have to take out a policy to get the card. Further, Mrs S submitted 
this upgrade application by post, in her own time and without any potential pressure from a 
salesperson. Overall, I think that Barclays made Mrs S aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Barclays didnt give Mrs S tailored advice about buying PPI  this was an information only, or 
non-advised sale. That means Barclays did not have to check whether the PPI was right for 
Mrs S. Barclays did have to give Mrs S clear information, so that she could decide for herself 
whether the PPI was right for her.
It is possible that the information Barclays gave Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.
Here, Mrs S chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she was eligible for 
the policy and wasnt affected by any of its key exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of Mrs Ss work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover  
especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay or ran out 
entirely. And while I understand Mrs S felt secure in her job, accidents, illnesses and 
redundancies can and do happen  even in situations that feel secure. I also understand 
there were people in her life who may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this card was Mrs Ss sole responsibility, 
not anyone elses. So it looks like the policy could have really been useful for Mrs S in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs S could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking it out at the time.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 January 2021. Barclays had nothing further to add. Mrs S added a further comment, 
which Ill talk through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S explained that she felt the policy was mis-sold because Barclays didnt give her any 
advice. But while I understand her point of view, Barclays were under no obligation to give 
her advice. This was a non-advised sale, where they just gave her information about the 
policy and left it up to Mrs S to decide in her own time whether or not shed like it. And it was 
perfectly legitimate to sell this policy using a non-advised method.
Further, while I understand that Mrs S now feels the policy was unsuitable for her, Im afraid 
I dont agree. As I explained in my provisional decision, Mrs S was eligible for the cover, 
wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations, and in her circumstances it could 
have been a useful policy in case shed needed to claim.
So while I do not wish to disappoint Mrs S, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold. 
And so I cannot fairly uphold the case.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman