DRN-1861895
The complaint
Mr P complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited increased his premium 
when he made a mid-term adjustment to his motor insurance policy. He also complains 
about the outstanding amount it said he would need to pay when he tried to cancel the 
policy.
What happened
Mr P had car insurance with Watford, with an annual premium of £806.65. He also entered 
into a finance agreement to enable him to pay the premium monthly, with monthly 
repayments of around £107 per month. He took the policy out through a broker  who I shall 
call S. The policy covered him for third party, fire and theft. A few months later, he bought a 
new car, and contacted S to update the policy to provide cover for the new car. He was 
advised to make the adjustment online and, with effect from 1 August 2019, the policy was 
amended to provide fully comprehensive cover. 
Mr P was charged an additional premium of £1,783.04 (plus a £35 admin fee), which he 
chose to add to his finance agreement. So, his monthly repayments increased to £500.51 
per month for the remaining five months. He later decided he was unhappy with the cost of 
the policy, so, on 26 August 2019, he took out a new policy online. The new policy, which 
was arranged by a different broker, but was also underwritten by Watford, cost £1,168.40 
per year and it covered him for third party, fire and theft. 
On 27 August 2019, Mr P tried to cancel the original policy. But he was told hed have to pay 
the premium outstanding for the policy, which was £1,003.23. Because he didnt think this 
was fair, he complained.
Watford explained the changes Mr P had made to the original policy had generated an 
additional premium, indicating the underwriters deemed the new vehicle and/or address to 
be a higher risk. It said the premium increase was reasonable, especially given the fact it 
related to a higher value car which was registered to a different address. It also said the 
increased premium would have been communicated clearly, and that Mr P had never been 
told his premium would remain the same regardless of changing risk factors.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. Our investigator thought the 
additional premium was fair, explaining the adjustments Mr P made to the policy had caused 
Watford to re-assess the risk of providing the insurance. He was satisfied the cancellation 
charge was justified, noting Watford had provided a breakdown of the cost of the policy from 
January 2019 to August 2019, when it was cancelled. The total cost was £2,235.10, and Mr 
P had only made payments totalling £1,231.88, leaving an outstanding balance of £1,003.23. 
Finally, he didnt think Watford had acted unfairly in advising Mr P to make changes to his 
policy online. 
Mr Ps asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes explained that 
because his English is limited, hed called Watford to get a quote over the phone, but he was 
told hed have to make the adjustment online. He says he did this, but he misunderstood 
what he was told about the price of the new policy and, having paid only £600 for the car, 
thought he was being charged an extra £500 (in total) to add it to the policy. He says he 
wouldnt have agreed to the price of the new policy if hed understood what he was being 
asked to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broker has carried out all the administrative actions in making the changes on Mr Ps 
insurance policy. But I think it was acting on Watfords behalf when doing so. So I think 
Watford can be held responsible for the brokers actions in this case. The broker has also 
corresponded on Watfords behalf. But for ease of reference I shall refer to any actions and 
representations carried out by the broker as being carried out by Watford.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this complaint, I will not be upholding 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr P has made changes part way through the policy year (known as a mid-team adjustment) 
and Watford has charged him an additional premium for this. 
Ive considered the changes in risk including the change in address, the fact the car was of 
higher value and the cover had changed from third party, fire and theft to comprehensive 
cover. Watford has provided a breakdown of the calculations for the additional premium, 
stating it wasnt calculated by an underwriter manually but by the software system that 
applies its live and often updating underwriting criteria. Its explained Mr P changed to a 
vehicle and address that were both rated as higher risk than the ones on the policy at the 
time and provided evidence that the new car was rated as higher risk than the original car.
Im satisfied Watfords assessment that these changes presented a higher risk was 
reasonable and I dont think its decision to increase the premium was unfair. The 
adjustments were not minor in nature and Im satisfied it was reasonable for Watford to have 
varied the terms of the policy as the car being insured was totally different and it was being 
insured at a different address.
Mr Ps complained that he was told to make the policy adjustments online, but Watford has 
said he was advised to do this because the admin fee was cheaper. And I dont think that 
was unfair. Ive listened to the recordings of the call and Mr P was told he had the option to 
make the changes online, which would reduce the admin fee. Mr P said he just wanted to 
know what it would cost to make the adjustment and was then passed to another call 
handler for a quotation. During the second call he said he didnt know how to use the online 
portal, but the call handler said shed send a link to the portal. He was told hed be able to 
save £15 in admin fees and he replied, thats great. He also asked whether hed be able to 
change his address on the portal and was told he would. Having listened to the calls Im 
satisfied Mr P was given the option to use the online portal and he chose that option, having 
understood the reasons for doing so.
Mr P has said he didnt understand what he was agreeing to when he agreed to the 
increased premium, but Watford has provided the letter Mr P was sent confirming the 
additional premium as well as an example of the way the additional premium would have 
been presented online. Its also shown that when Mr P opted to pay the additional amount by 
direct debit, he would have been told the finance provider would be in touch to provide 
details of the updated payment. Im satisfied the additional premium and new direct debit 
amount were clearly explained, and the information was set out clearly. So, I dont think Watford 
is responsible for the fact Mr P hadnt properly understood the terms of the new agreement.I note Mr P later took out a new insurance policy with a different insurer at a lower cost, and 
while I understand hes frustrated because this policy is underwritten by the same insurer, it 
cant fairly be compared to the initial policy Mr P took out with Watford because it only 
provides third party, fire and theft - whereas the previous policy was fully comprehensive.
Ive also considered the amount Mr P was asked to pay when he cancelled the policy and 
Im satisfied that was fair. The money he owed overall was made up of the outstanding 
premium (£1,554.69), the additional products Mr P had opted to add to the policy at 
inception (£155.99) the cancellation fee (£75.00), the interest on the premiums (£296.58), 
the policy arrangement fee (£67.89), the direct debit set up fee (£50.00) and the mid-term 
adjustment fee (£35). Im satisfied the charges were reasonable and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Consequently, Im satisfied the cancellation fee was fair.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed, but I think Watford has done anything wrong, so its 
not appropriate for me to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman