The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Mr and Mrs M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were sold the PPI when they applied for a mortgage. The policy covered Mr 
and Mrs M against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. The 
policy initially cost £19.80 per month and couldve paid a benefit of £386.63 for up to 12 
months if Mr or Mrs M couldnt work or lost their job. The cover was split between them.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs M recall the policy was sold to them during a telephone call. They were asked if 
they wanted the cover and accepted it. So I think NatWest made it clear that Mr and Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the PPI.
If NatWest had recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M it would have had to ask questions 
about their circumstances and ensure the policy was right for them.
But from experience I am aware that NatWest didnt give tailored advice when it sold this 
type of policy. And Mr and Mrs M have told us NatWest didnt ask about their circumstances 
or existing resources. So I dont think NatWest recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs M. 
Therefore it didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for them.
But NatWest did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide 
for themselves if it was right for them.
I cant be sure what information was given during the telephone call. So its possible that 
NatWest didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not enough to uphold 
this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs M would have changed their 
mind about buying the policy if they been given better or clearer information.
I cant say Mr and Mrs M would have done, I say this for the following reasons.
DRN-1880067Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the PPI so it looks like they were interested in this type of 
cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So they couldve 
claimed if they needed.
Mr and Mrs M both had existing medical conditions. Many PPI policies exclude claims for 
medical conditions that were diagnosed before the policy was taken out. But this particular 
policy didnt exclude claims for existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs M both received sick pay from their employers. I can see that Mrs Ms employer 
provided her with generous sick pay benefits. So Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt need 
the policy. Ive thought about this, but as I have said, NatWest didnt recommend the policy 
so it didnt have to consider Mr and Mrs Ms existing arrangements.
And I think it is likely that Mr and Mrs M would have been aware of the sick pay benefits their 
employers had in place. So, it was up to Mr and Mrs M to decide if they needed the policy 
based on the information they were given and what they knew of their own circumstances.
The policy gave a good benefit, and the premiums seems to have been competitive with 
similar policies and affordable. And both Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions. So even if NatWest had given Mr and Mrs M full, clear 
information about the policy, its benefits, the premiums and the terms and conditions, I think 
they would still have gone ahead and bought it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman