DRN-3225961
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited gave her 
unsuitable investment advice when she took out a unit-linked savings plan with life cover in 
2000.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs G by a claims management company (CMC) 
but to keep things simpler, Ill mainly just refer to Mrs G as the complainant.
What happened
Mrs G invested in a single life, 10 year Regular Savings plan with a monthly premium of 
£200. 
The plan included life cover of £18,000. The plan was taken out on 2 December 2000 and 
ran until 2 September 2004 when Mrs G surrendered the investment. She received 
£8,272.39.
After speaking with the CMC, Mrs G complained to Sun Life in January 2021 that it had mis-
sold her the plan when she took it out on its agents recommendation. She was concerned 
that there appeared to be no paperwork to justify the advice to invest £200 per month into a 
unit-linked investment and said it wasnt immediately obvious why this wouldve been 
suitable for her, given her circumstances at the time and her background.
When Mrs G complained to Sun Life, it said it wasnt able to consider her complaint as it was 
only legally obliged to hold on to records for six years after a plan is cancelled and it no 
longer held any point of sale information to explain why this plan was sold.  
Mrs G wasnt happy with this response and so she got in touch with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and one of our investigators looked into her complaint.
Where complaints concern something that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. Our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction and was satisfied, as Sun Life had given its 
consent to us investigating Mrs Gs complaint, this was a complaint he could look at.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He said it was understandable 
that Sun Life had virtually no paperwork given the sale occurred more than 20 years ago and 
the plan was closed over 16 years ago. And without being able to see information about 
Mrs Gs circumstances and objectives, including her financial situation, or the advisers 
record of what was discussed, he didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold her 
complaint that she had been wrongly advised. 
He said Mrs G had paid into the investment for four years without needing to make any 
withdrawal so he was satisfied that she was able to afford the £200 each month. And he 
mentioned that she got back roughly what she put in over four years so there was no 
indication that the product advised was too high risk. 
Mrs G disagreed. She questioned how Sun Life still had details of the plan but not the 
paperwork. She said Sun Life had information about her personal and financial 
circumstances from another sale just a few years earlier so she wanted to know why this 
wasnt enough to help determine suitability of this plan.
Mrs G said the premium paid into the plan wasnt insignificant, particularly for someone with 
her background, and she took issue with the investigators comment that there were no 
issues regarding affordability as the plan was maintained for 4 years. She felt the fact it was 
cashed in so soon showed there was a problem with affordability. 
Mrs G complained that she paid in £9,600 only to receive back £8,272.39 which was the 
result of charges and the way the plan was set up.
On behalf of Mrs G the CMC said it knew from the earlier sale and the information it had 
available that Mrs G had no real understanding of financial matters, only a limited command 
of English and a background (as a manual worker) which did not support the sale of a unit 
linked plan which had such heavy premiums and unsurprisingly had to be cashed in early as 
a result.
Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I must make reasonable assumptions where necessary.
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules under which we operate can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. These say that unless a business consents or there are exceptional 
circumstances we cant consider a complaint that has been brought more than six years 
after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years after the complainant was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of a cause for complaint. 
Sun Life has consented to us looking into Mrs Gs complaint about what happened in 2000 
when it sold her this plan, so I am satisfied that I can consider her complaint.
I can completely understand Mrs Gs frustration at the lack of point of sale paperwork  and 
I sympathise. But I think it was fair for our investigator to say that the rules about this are 
intended to help keep clients private information secure and he has explained that 
businesses are not required to keep paperwork beyond six years. The fact that Sun Life still 
had some plan details recorded but isnt able to produce documentation from a sale that took 
place almost twenty two years ago isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint.
When thinking about whether Sun Life gave Mrs G suitable investment advice, keeping in 
mind that all investment carries some degree of financial risk, I would generally approach 
this by thinking about the following key questions:was Mrs G in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest? If so,
thinking in particular about the amount invested and the risk this involved, was the 
investment advice Sun Life provided suitable for Mrs G?
There is only limited information available here. But with this approach in mind, Ive thought 
about what conclusions I can draw about Mrs Gs financial situation in 2000. 
I dont consider that I can fairly make assumptions about lack of suitability based on the fact 
of Mrs Gs occupation. And Ive no good reason to think she wouldnt have had enough 
disposable income to be able to afford to invest £200 each month. She was in paid 
employment and she was able to pay the premiums for four years or so after signing up to 
the plan. Ive not been provided with evidence that paying the premiums caused Mrs G 
financial difficulty.
At the same time, I appreciate that this was a ten year plan so she cashed the plan in at 
least six years earlier than she likely intended when she took it out. But I dont consider that 
persuasive evidence has been provided to show that this was the result of the premiums not 
being affordable, rather than for another reason, such as Mrs G wanting to redirect her 
expenditure.
I am sorry Mrs G made a loss on her investment when she closed the plan after paying into 
it for just four years or so. But, as the CMC has mentioned, this was likely due to the way the 
plan was structured and early surrender meant that fees and charges in the first few years 
eroded the plans surrender value. 
Thinking about all of this, I think its likely that in 2004 Mrs G surrendered the plan earlier 
than she had originally intended because her circumstances had changed or she needed 
cash in an emergency or an unforeseen event meant she had some unexpected 
expenditure. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs G or the adviser thought she was likely to surrender 
the plan when she did.
So I dont feel I can fairly conclude the early surrender date shows the plan was unsuitable 
for Mrs G at the time she was sold it.  
I agree that a clients experience of managing money is something that the adviser should 
consider when advising on investments. But I've seen nothing to support Mrs Gs assertion 
that she lacked understanding or capacity to make an informed investment decision when 
she took out this plan. 
And whilst I appreciate that English isnt Mrs Gs first language, I think the onus would have 
been on her to ensure that she was satisfied that she sufficiently understood what she would 
be signing up to before she agreed to take out the plan. 
Without evidence to show otherwise, I cant fairly conclude that Sun Life didnt do what 
I would reasonably expect its adviser to have done to ensure Mrs G was suitably advised in 
2000 or that it treated her unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
From what the CMC has said, it seems Mrs G may have had another investment. But as it 
wasnt taken out at the same time, on balance I dont consider it affects my assessment of 
the suitability of the plan sold in 2000. 
And Im not making any assumptions about what having another investment already set up 
might mean in terms of the full extent of Mrs Gs investment experience and knowledge. But I dont think persuasive evidence has been provided to show Mrs G didnt understand that an 
investment might be a way to grow her savings if she wanted her money to earn a greater 
return than she could expect if she kept her money in a deposit account.
In terms of the life cover provided by the plan, I note that the sum assured was set at the 
minimum level required to ensure the policy was qualifying in terms of its tax status. 
This indicates to me that the inclusion of life cover was unlikely to have been one of the main 
objectives for the policy being sold. In my view it was more likely that the policy was sold as 
a means to provide Mrs G with a savings plan. 
And Ive seen insufficient evidence to suggest that the life cover made the policy unsuitable.
As I explained earlier, there is limited evidence available from the time that Mrs G was sold 
the policy by Sun Life in 2000. 
Having carefully considered the evidence that has been provided, based on what I know 
about Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, Im not persuaded Ive seen enough to be able to 
conclude that Sun Lifes investment advice was unsuitable. 
So I cant fairly uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman