DRN-3263254
The complaint
X Ltd, represented by Mr M, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund it 
for a transaction he said X Ltd hadnt authorised.
What happened
On 6 January 2021, a payment of £600 was made from X Ltds Barclays business account, 
to a service provider which Ill call S.  Mr M, for X Ltd, said hed authorised this payment, 
which was arranged over the phone. 
On 8 February, another £600 payment debited X Ltds account, to the same service 
provider, S. But Mr M said he hadnt authorised this one. He got in touch with S, and said 
that when hed agreed the service, he had specifically said hed try the service for one 
month. The service provided included weekly review calls, and Mr M had said hed decide 
when he had the last review call due under the January payment. But S hadnt provided the 
last weekly call.
S refused to refund X Ltd, saying that it would have been explained to Mr M on the sales 
call, and when the service started, that the service rolled on from month on month and was a 
subscription service. It said X Ltd hadnt cancelled until after the February payment had been 
taken.
Mr M went to a Barclays branch. Barclays raised a chargeback against S, but it logged this 
as I was charged more than once, so the chargeback was rejected, and Barclays refused 
to refund X Ltd. Mr M complained. He wrote several times, but didnt get a response until he 
contacted this service and we got in touch with Barclays.
Barclays then issued a final response letter to X Ltds complaint. It apologised for not 
answering Mr Ms letters, and for logging the chargeback with the wrong heading. But 
Barclays said it had reviewed the likelihood of X Ltds chargeback having been successful if 
it had been claimed under a different category. Barclays looked as Ss advertised terms and 
conditions, and price plans. And these clearly stated that they were monthly charges, with 
the terms and conditions setting out the subscription information and policies.
Barclays said it appreciated that Mr M had agreed the deal by phone, but it was still his 
responsibility to ensure he was happy with the terms and conditions before providing his 
card details. The seller didnt have to provide these, as they were available on the website. 
So Barclays said it was highly unlikely the chargeback would have been successful anyway. 
But it paid X Ltd £100 for the way it handled Mr Ms dissatisfaction and for failing to log the 
complaint when it received it.
X Ltd, represented by Mr M, wasnt satisfied and asked this service to look at the complaint.
Our investigator upheld X Ltds complaint. He explained that hed considered whether it had 
been made clear to Mr M that he was authorising a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). 
CPAs are set up using card details, and give the merchant standing authority to take 
repeated payments, not just a one-off payment. The investigator looked at the emails 
between Mr M and S. He noted that the principles applying to CPAs mean that it wasnt 
enough just to tell Mr M that a CPA would be set up, or that it was on the website or in terms 
and conditions. Mr M would have had specifically to agree. And here, Mr M had said that 
hed specifically told S that hed only pay for one month, then see how the service went. So 
the investigator considered that the CPA was unauthorised. Under the payment regulations, 
this meant that Barclays had to refund X Ltd. The investigator also considered that the £100 
which Barclays had paid X Ltd for not raising its complaint was fair.
X Ltd agreed. But Barclays didnt reply to the investigators view, so the complaint was 
referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations and guidance
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in February 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, its not in dispute that 
technically the payment used Mr Hs genuine card and account details. But the regulations 
also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the payments. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them. So the issue for me to consider is whether or not 
Mr M, for X Ltd, authorised the second payment to S.
There is also guidance about CPAs. This was set out by the former Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) confirmed that these still apply, even 
though the OFT no longer exists. This guidance says that:
- The merchant should make it clear they're using a CPA. The consumer should 
positively agree to the amounts and frequency of the payments. 'Opt-out' clauses 
arent good enough.
- The key parts of the CPA (e.g. dates, amounts) must be displayed clearly and not 
just hidden in the terms and conditions. 
- Failure to get the consumer's positive, informed consent may mean the contract is 
unenforceable and the consumer is entitled to a refund of all payments.
What happened with X Ltds payment?
CPAs often dont have a paper trail, and are created online or on the phone. So its difficult 
to know exactly what happened. It often happens that evidence is missing, or conflicts, and 
then I take my decision on what I think it most likely to have happened, taking into account 
all the circumstances of the case. 
A key factor here is that Mr M complained as soon as the disputed 8 February payment let X 
Ltds account. So I think its likely that he genuinely believed that there wouldnt be a second 
payment without his consent. It isnt that he tried to claim the money back after receiving the February to March services for which the payment was intended. Hes also been consistent 
in what hes said.
I recognise, and understand, Barclays argument that Ss website, and terms and conditions, 
all talk about monthly pricing plans. But the website also says customers can cancel at any 
time, and so I accept that Mr M thought that what hed agreed over the phone was the first 
month, and then hed discuss with S whether or not X Ltd wanted to continue. The terms and 
conditions arent easy to find on Ss website, and in any case, the Guidance Ive referred to 
above says the key parts of the agreement must be clearly displayed and I dont think they 
are here.
Ive considered what S said in its emails with Mr M  that it would have been explained 
that the service was a subscription service and rolled on on a monthly basis. But theres no 
evidence of that, and it conflicts with what Mr M has consistently and clearly said. So I think 
its more likely than not that S didnt fulfil the requirements of the guidance in relation to the 
CPA which X Ltd unknowingly took out, thinking it was a one-off initial payment, not an 
ongoing subscription. 
I recognise that its S which, on balance, probably didnt give X Ltd all the necessary 
information about the CPA. It wasnt Barclays failure. But under the Payment Services 
regulations, as Ive set out above, a bank is liable if a customer didnt authorise a payment. 
Here, I dont consider Mr M knowingly authorised a CPA from X Ltds account. So I find that 
Barclays should refund X Ltd with the disputed 8 February £600.
Compensation for Barclays service issues
Barclays paid X Ltd £100 for service issues, in particular its failure to investigate X Ltds 
complaint, even though Mr M wrote several times as well as going into a branch. I consider 
thats fair and reasonable for this element of X Ltds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay X 
Ltd £600 to refund the 8 February 2021 disputed transaction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman