DRN-3071375
The complaint
Miss S is complaining about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled a 
claim she made on a policy and subsequent errors it made when amending the policy. She 
wants D&G to increase the compensation its offered (and paid) to date.
What happened
Im not going to go into a great deal of detail about this complaint as both parties have 
agreed what happened. In summary, Miss S:
Has appliance cover for a fridge freezer used by tenants in a property she lets out.
Made a claim for a damaged freezer door.
Had to wait for some time before a replacement part was provided and fitted  and 
D&G didnt communicate well about this.
Miss S complained and D&G paid her some compensation - £120  to make up for 
the mistakes it made.
Miss S discovered her cover had changed and was slightly dearer. D&G said that 
was because the cover was described as a fridge  not a fridge freezer  and cover 
for the latter was dearer. But it said it would cancel the more expensive cover as her 
old policy was still running. It paid her some compensation for this.
Miss S complained some months later that she no longer had a live policy. D&G said 
this was a mistake, reinstated the policy and paid her £80 to make up for this.
D&G then sent the paperwork to her tenants instead of her.
Miss S complained again  and D&G offered to pay her an extra £60 compensation. 
Miss S refused this and decided to bring her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the problems Miss S had encountered and thought Miss S had 
been paid or offered a total of £340. She thought that was a fair amount.
Miss S initially agreed to this  but then said she thought the investigator was suggesting 
D&G pay another £340  bringing the compensation to £680. She says shes been seriously 
inconvenienced and upset by the way D&G acted  and in particular by the fact that it sent 
paperwork meant for her to her tenants address.
D&G agreed that we could look at the compensation in the round for all three complaints.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, because I think D&G has already agreed to pay (or 
has already paid) Miss S £340 compensation.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss S told us about the inconvenience D&G caused, and I 
have no doubt she found it upsetting that correspondence went to her tenants. I understand 
that was because D&G compounded its earlier mistakes by not adding a correspondence 
address to her new policy as it should have done. Its corrected that.
D&G says there was no personal information in the paperwork  bar the cost of the cover  
that the tenants werent already aware of. They say thats the case because the tenants 
already knew the policy existed as theyd claimed on it. That seems reasonable, and I 
havent seen any evidence that this mistake caused any lasting harm.
I realise Miss S would like an assurance that D&G wont make any mistakes in the future  
but Im afraid thats not something anyone could guarantee, because mistakes do happen. 
What this service expects is that a business puts mistakes right and if appropriate 
compensates their customer for any distress or inconvenience they suffered.
From what I can see, D&G has corrected the mistakes, has apologised and says its offered 
or paid £340 in compensation. Thats a fair amount  particularly as it wasnt Miss S who 
was without a fully working fridge freezer when parts were delayed. And I cant ask D&G to 
compensate her tenants as they hadnt taken out the policy.
Taking everything into account I think £340 in total  including any money already paid  is 
reasonable. D&G should ensure its paid Miss S that amount in total to close this complaint. 
As D&G made several payments for compensation it should provide Miss S with the dates 
and amounts of individual payments its made so far. But overall, D&G should make sure 
she gets or has had - the full £340. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, as Domestic & General Insurance Plc has 
already fairly offered to settle the complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman