DRN-3280025
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited 
mis-sold its business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr D, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
B bought a business protection insurance policy through Towergate (who are a broker) 
which included cover for business interruption. The policy renewed in September 2019. 
B looked to claim on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. However, B was told that there wasnt cover for 
the circumstances of the claim under the policy. 
B complained to Towergate. Towergate said that business interruption insurance was 
generally designed to cover interruption resulting from damage to property and while some 
policies did provide a small amount of cover for disease, this was aimed at diseases within 
the workplace rather than a global pandemic. They said disease cover wasnt something that 
B had said it needed and it wasnt an area of cover that Towergate would have suggested as 
they didnt think it was particularly relevant to the nature of Bs business. 
Unhappy with Towergates response, B brought its complaint to our service. It said it wanted 
a belt and braces approach and had been told by Towergate that the policy covered 
everything except terrorism. B said the policy documents listed terrorism under the main 
exclusions, so this is misleading if B isnt covered for its claim.
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said other insurers had paid claims relating to the 
pandemic so Towergate should also have offered cover for a pandemic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. 
Its disappointing that Towergate havent responded to our services requests for information. 
However, Im satisfied that I have enough information to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision. 
I understand from B that before the policy renewed it had a lengthy face to face meeting with 
Towergate. B said it made it clear that it wanted to be covered for everything which is why it 
was upset to find that it didnt have cover for its claim.
As there was a face to face meeting I think its most likely that this was an advised sale. That 
means Towergate had a responsibility to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its 
advice, as well as a general duty to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
However, if it wasnt an advised sale that wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint as Towergate would need to have provided information in a way that was clear, 
fair and not misleading to enable B to decide if the policy was suitable.
Its impossible to know exactly what was said in that meeting so I need to make a decision 
on what I think is most likely. Towergate havent provided a copy of Bs demands and needs 
but I think its entirely likely B said it wanted a wide-ranging level of cover. While I think its 
unlikely that a broker would tell a policyholder that their business interruption policy covered 
everything, Towergate havent provided anything to contradict Bs testimony. However, 
Towergate said, in their response to B, that they didnt recommend cover for losses caused 
by diseases as it wasnt something they thought would be relevant to Bs business. 
In my experience, its very unlikely that Towergate would have been able to offer B a policy 
that covered it for business interruption for any cause except terrorism. The business 
interruption policies that Ive seen generally cover loss as a result of damage to property. 
Some policies also provide cover for events that dont involve damage, such as disease or 
non-damage denial of access. 
While I recognise that B says it wanted as much cover as possible, I  havent seen anything 
to persuade me that risks posed by diseases was something that B particularly wanted 
covering at that time or that cover for diseases was something particularly relevant to its 
needs. So I think it was reasonable for Towergate to not recommend cover for diseases in 
September 2019 given the nature of Bs business. 
I havent seen a copy of Bs policy wording, but the documents B provided list the following 
under the main exclusions for its business interruption cover:
Material Damage exclusions
loss or erasure of computer data
Date recognition exclusion clauses
Terrorism
I think its clear that these are the main exclusions and not a list of everything the policy 
doesnt cover. I also think it shows that there are other things that the policy doesnt cover as 
well as terrorism. I would expect Towergate to have highlighted anything significant or 
unusual in the policy. But I dont think the lack of cover for diseases was significant or 
unusual in September 2019. So, I wouldnt expect Towergate to have highlighted that there 
was no cover for diseases at that time. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im not persuaded that Towergate didnt take reasonable 
steps to ensure the suitability of their advice by not providing B with cover for pandemics or 
disease cover. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that the policy was mis-sold.    
I recognise that this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont intend to require Towergate to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman