DRN-2600932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical has 
unreasonably refused their critical illness claim. 
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs W want the claim to be paid in full, with backdated 
premiums refunded and compensation for the upset and anguish they have been caused. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws Mortgage Repayment Plan began in April 1998. It offers them life assurance 
and critical illness benefit cover for a 25-year term running alongside their mortgage lending. 
In February 2020, Mrs W became seriously unwell and required hospital care. Mrs W says 
she was told she had heart failure, and may have had a heart attack. She was later 
diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy with left ventricular systolic dysfunction. This was 
caused by left bundle branch block and required the fitting of a pacemaker. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs W made a claim to Clerical Medical under the policy definition for 
heart attack.  
Clerical Medical refused the claim in June 2020. It said that even though Mrs Ws medical 
evidence showed some electrocardiographic (ECG) and cardiac enzyme changes, these 
were not consistent with a diagnosis of a heart attack (myocardial infarction). Mrs W had 
been diagnosed with a type of cardiomyopathy.  
It did accept that there was a delay from the time it took upon receiving Mrs Ws consultants 
report to the time it reviewed the content of the report. Clerical Medical offered Mr and Mrs 
W £100 compensation in recognition of that interruption. 
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said there was no ambiguity in the evidence, and Mrs W 
had met the thresholds included in the policy wording. 
In July 2020, Clerical Medical rejected the complaint. It said it remained of the view that Mrs 
Ws diagnosis was dilated cardiomyopathy and not myocardial infarction, and the ECG did 
not evidence death of the heart muscle. Therefore it was unable to accept Mrs Ws claim. It 
also noted Mr and Mrs W had not accepted the £100 compensation but it would honour the 
payment if they changed their mind.  
So, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. They said that even though Mrs 
Ws primary diagnosis is one of heart failure, this does not mean she hadnt also had all of 
the features of a heart attack. Mr and Mrs W said the medical evidence showed Mrs W had 
typical chest pain, new ECG changes and raised cardiac enzymes. 
In their view, Clerical Medical was choosing to ignore this evidence because of Mrs Ws 
primary diagnosis. They said it had acted disingenuously and it was trying to rewrite the 
policy wording.   
Mr and Mrs W also explained that they had paid into their policy for 22 years for precisely 
this type of situation, one where Mrs W was seriously ill and has not been able to go back to 
work.  
An investigator from this service considered the complaint, but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said that while some of the symptoms Mrs W experienced were also common 
to heart attacks, the evidence did not show death of a portion of Mrs Ws heart muscle and 
this was required to satisfy the heart attack policy definition.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They supplied an assessment of a different complaint which had 
previously been looked at by this service. In that case, the complainant had suffered a heart 
attack but a claim had been refused. Mr and Mrs W said that they are not medically qualified 
and they accepted that there wasnt conclusive proof that she had a heart attack. What they 
are arguing is that Mrs Ws circumstances meet Clerical Medicals policy wording for heart 
attack. 
Mr and Mrs W said that the way the policy wording is written is broken into two parts  the 
definition being the death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood 
supply and the evidence required to meet that definition as evidenced by an episode of 
typical chest pain, new electro-cardiographic changes and by elevation of cardiac enzymes 
which was supported by Mrs Ws medical records. Therefore, the definition was met as the 
evidence had been confirmed.  
On that basis, they wanted their complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Clerical Medical 
confirmed it had nothing further to add.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear of Mrs Ws poor health and that things continue to be difficult for Mr 
and Mrs W. Though I realise my decision wont be what they have hoped for, I am also of the 
view that this complaint should not succeed. I wont be asking Clerical Medical to pay the 
claim. 
I know Mr and Mrs W feel strongly that they took this policy out to cover them in 
circumstances akin to the position they are in now. And I dont doubt that. But, this is not a 
complaint about the sale of the policy  if Mr and Mrs W have concerns about what was put 
to them in 1998 theyll need to address that separately. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if 
Clerical Medical has acted within the policy terms. Mr and Mrs Ws policy provides that a 
lump sum payment will be made to either of them for a number of listed critical illnesses or 
critical events. One of these is heart attack. The policy says:
The illnesses or medical conditions of a Life Assured with the specific conditions 
subject to which cover is provided in respect of them and exclusions from such cover 
are set out in the paragraphs below
8.6.1(e) Heart Attack- being the death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of 
inadequate blood supply as evidenced by an episode of typical chest pain, new 
eiectro-cardiographic changes and by elevation of cardiac enzymes.It is correct that Clerical Medical looks at Mrs Ws medical evidence against the policy 
wording I have set out above. Having looked at the evidence and the review, I consider that 
Clerical Medical has reached a fair assessment of it.  
Neither party disputes that the symptoms Mrs W suffered from included the three listed 
above which are evidence of a heart attack. But having evidence of chest pain and the 
required diagnostic tests does not satisfy the complete policy definition.  
I dont accord with Mr Ws submission that the wording above is split into a definition and 
proof required to meet that definition. The illness is set out as one complete designation as 
to what a heart attack is for the purposes of critical illness benefit. That the definition 
includes the required evidence does not alter the definition or somehow imply severability. 
It is also worth noting that the wording above replicated that proposed in the most recent 
guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in its Statement of Best Practice (the 
Code). That Code suggests model wording for insurers to adopt in their critical illness 
offerings.
To meet the policy definition of heart attack, the entire wording above must be satisfied. The 
medical evidence of the symptom and diagnostic findings must be indicative that a 
policyholder has suffered from the death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of 
inadequate blood supply. The evidence from Mrs Ws Consultant Cardiologist does not 
confirm either a heart attack/myocardial infarction nor is there any diagnostic or clinical 
assessment that determines Mrs W has suffered from the death of a portion of the heart 
muscle. 
To the contrary, the Cardiologist was questioned as to whether the findings (ECG changes 
and raised cardiac enzymes) were in keeping with a myocardial infarction or if not, what was 
Mrs Ws diagnosis? He confirmed the diagnosis was not MI, but dilated cardiomyopathy. 
I recognise that there are many different causes for dilated cardiomyopathy (disease of the 
heart muscle), one of which is heart attack. But, without supporting medical information 
Clerical Medical is not acting unreasonably in refusing this claim; the current evidence does 
not show that Mrs W suffered from a heart attack as determined in the context of the full 
policy wording I have set out earlier in this decision. 
If Mr and Mrs W obtain any further evidence that they feel supports their case, then they 
should submit this to Clerical Medical in the first instance for a fresh review. 
Similarly, if they wish to accept Clerical Medicals offer of £100 for administrative delays, it 
has confirmed in writing to Mr and Mrs W that this offer remains open to them. 
Finally, I recognise Mr and Mrs W have supplied our investigator with information from 2006 
which they think is relevant. That information concerned a complainant who was recorded by 
attending medical professionals to have unequivocally suffered a heart attack, but without 
the recognised elevation of cardiac enzymes. That is not the same as Mrs Ws position.   
But even if Mrs Ws complaint had a similar factual basis to the example theyve supplied, no 
two cases are identical and I must assess this complaint on its own merits against the 
contract of insurance between the parties. Clearly Mrs W has ongoing heart disease that 
might possibly have been caused by a heart attack. But, she hasnt suffered from a critical 
illness event as defined by her and Mr Ws full policy wording, and that is different. I cant 
therefore ask Clerical Medical to do anything more; it has fairly refused the claim.
My final decisionDespite my sympathy for M and Mrs W, Im unable to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman