DRN-3781039
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of a claim he made to it 
when his car was damaged in an accident.
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged in early May 2022 and a claim was made to Aviva. Aviva initially 
felt the car would be a total loss, and it appointed an independent engineer to assess the 
damage to the car. The engineer felt the car wasnt a total loss, that it was repairable. Mr W 
wasnt happy for Aviva to repair it though as it wanted to use an approved repairer rather 
than a manufacturer garage. Aviva said it would pay Mr W for the cost of repairs as 
recommended by the engineer. Mr W was unhappy and complained. 
Aviva issued its final response on the complaint on 14 June 2022. In that it did confirm that it 
would consider further costs, such as necessary diagnostics, on top of the settlement sum 
offered. Mr W remained unhappy.
When Mr Ws complaint came to this service, our Investigator noted that further issues had 
been raised with Aviva. He confirmed the issues wed be reviewing in this complaint are:
That Mr W felt his car should be written off.
That the engineer was not appropriately qualified.
That the engineer turned up unannounced to inspect the car.
That the car was moved and driven, with repairs starting, all without Mr Ws 
authorisation.
Our investigator didnt feel that Aviva had failed Mr W in any of these respects. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr W said he had evidence that Aviva had failed him and got things 
wrong. He was invited to provide further evidence he felt was relevant or wanted considering 
as against these four complaint points. But he didnt provide anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this car is important to Mr W and I understand that he is upset about much 
of what has happened during this claim. I can also see that some problems existed within a 
few days of the claim being made, with Aviva handling a complaint from Mr W, which it 
resolved on 11 May 2022 by paying £200 compensation and sending some flowers. But just 
because Aviva got things wrong then, doesnt necessarily mean it failed Mr W in respect of 
the issues that developed following that, which are the subject of this complaint. 
Im also mindful that since Mr W made his further complaint to Aviva, then bringing it to us in 
the summer of this year, things have developed. So it seems that Mr W has since obtained 
reports and the like on his car and the damage it is suffering. As our Investigator explained 
though, we cant take that detail into account as part of this complaint. That is because we 
can only look at what has happened to the point of Avivas letter dated 14 June 2022  and 
in that letter Aviva did say it would consider further detail such as diagnostic and expert 
reports, if they were provided by Mr W. That is a reasonable position for it to take. If Mr W 
wants to progress the claim and complaint regarding the damage to his car  and likely cost 
for that repair  he should send that detail to Aviva for it to consider.  
Im aware that Mr W had concerns about Aviva appointing the engineer to assess his car. 
But that was also a reasonable thing for Aviva to do. And quite a standard part of the claim 
and complaint process employed by most motor insurers when concerns or disputes arise 
about damage to a car. Im satisfied that the engineer utilised by Aviva here was 
independent and suitably qualified. His report makes sense and is, in my view, persuasive. 
He felt that Mr Ws car could be repaired and would not need to be written off. He was also 
able to give an initial indicative cost for the repairs  with the provision that further 
diagnostics would be needed. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on his report in 
offering to settle Mr Ws claim by payment for the repairs and offering consideration of 
further costs necessary to facilitate the repair, once they were incurred/known. 
It is unfortunate if the engineer arrived when Mr W was not expecting him. But I note Aviva 
said it was for the engineer and Mr W to arrange the appointment between them. And I dont 
think its likely that the engineer would intentionally have turned up without making an 
arrangement, as that could very likely result in a wasted journey. Although I appreciate some 
miscommunication may have occurred, resulting in Mr w not knowing when the engineer 
was coming. In any event, given the engineers independent status, if this appointment 
wasnt reasonably arranged, I cant fairly blame Aviva for that. 
I can understand that it would be upsetting for Mr W to believe his car was driven and 
worked on without his authorisation. But Aviva has confirmed in its final response letter that 
that did not happen. I havent seen any evidence which makes me think Aviva is not being 
honest in this respect  I see the car was uplifted by the RAC and taken to a garage for 
repair, and repairs were authorised. But Ive not seen that the car was driven or that repairs 
were actually done. But, even if Mr W is correct, I havent seen that he has suffered any loss 
because of that action. And I note that the car was returned to Mr W around the time Aviva 
issued its final response letter, dated 14 June 2022, to the complaint points Mr W had 
already raised with it. So if Mr W noticed specific issues for concern with the car upon its 
return  he should address those issues with Aviva. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman