DRN-4037055
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties and so I wont go into extensive 
detail about what happened here, especially considering how matters have progressed over 
time.
Mr A unknowingly became involved in a cryptocurrency scam. He sent money from his 
Lloyds account to his existing cryptocurrency wallet. And from there he sent funds on to a 
scammer.
Mr A had taken a £25,000 loan with Lloyds around a week before he sent the money to the 
scammer. The money he sent came from this loan, sending £20,000 of the borrowed funds.
Once Mr A realised hed been scammed he reported the matter to Lloyds. But it said it 
wouldnt refund him, so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators recommended the complaint be upheld and said Mr A should 
receive a full refund of the £20,000. She also said the bank should pay interest on the refund 
at the same rate as the loan.
Mr A accepted but Lloyds did not. Instead, it made a counter-offer. Lloyds said it would 
instead restructure Mr As loan to account for the loss to the scam. In doing so it noted:
not all the loan funds had been lost to the scam with £5,000 remaining in Mr As 
account, being spent over time;
Mr A had made nine payments of £469.41 toward the loan before it was defaulted 
and sent to recoveries.
Lloyds said, with these factors in mind, it would restructure his loan as if he had only 
borrowed £5,000. That meant applying the same rate of interest and crediting all payments 
made to the existing loan. So Mr A would be left with a total of £978.56 to repay. Lloyds also 
said that, once the balance was paid, it would remove all adverse information recorded 
against Mr A, including the default.
Mr A didnt want to accept that offer and so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no further dispute for me to make findings on in terms of the scam itself and whether 
Lloyds ought to have done more at the time Mr A made the £20,000 payment. Lloyds has 
accepted responsibility and has agreed to refund the money. Whats left in dispute is the 
form that refund ought to take. 
Im persuaded Lloyds counter-offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate 
the complaint here isnt really about Lloyds decision to lend, instead being about the failure 
to intervene when the payment was made. And so arguably the restructuring of the loan isnt 
tied to potential redress. But there are some important considerations to make here.
Mr A is responsible for the loan and associated interest. That would be the case whether 
Lloyds were found to be at fault or not in respect of the scam payment. He would always 
need to repay the debt, having entered into the loan agreement.
The loan has fallen into delinquency and has defaulted. Mr A hasnt met the contractual 
repayments he would always have had to make. This means that Lloyds arguably has a 
claim to any funds in the current account to settle the outstanding debt, through its right to 
set-off. So even if Mr A were refunded the £20,000 directly, Lloyds might well claim it from 
his current account.
Mr A has said he took the loan for the purpose of home improvements. Indeed, thats what 
was stated at application stage. But Im not persuaded that was the case; I believe its more 
likely than not he took the loan with the intention of investing the funds in the way that he did. 
I say as much because the loan was taken just one week before the money was sent to his 
cryptocurrency wallet. And Mr A has said he was monitoring the investment and connected 
social media groups for months before deciding to go ahead. The timing then persuades me 
Mr A more likely than not deliberately misstated the purpose of the lending. Had he told the 
bank he planned to invest the money, its unlikely the lending would have been agreed.
The proposition by Lloyds doesnt leave Mr A in a worse position financially. It will mean his 
loss to the scam is nullified and he doesnt have to repay that money  or associated interest 
 to Lloyds. If he were to have the money refunded directly then all the original terms of the 
agreement would still be in place, hed have a large debt that still needed to be settled, and 
hed have a default against his name. Instead, Mr A will be left with a relatively small sum to 
repay, representing funds he has borrowed and used for non-scam purposes. Interest will be 
appropriately and fairly calculated. And hell then be completely free of the lending and some 
otherwise very negative implications, once the revised balance is repaid.
I wouldnt describe the alternative option  to refund Mr A the £20,000 directly  to be unfair 
to any party per se. But, given all the circumstances of the case, I consider the loan 
restructuring to be the most suitable resolution to the complaint.   
Putting things right
If this final decision is accepted by Mr A Lloyds should restructure the loan in the way it has 
proposed. It will then be for Mr A and Lloyds to discuss the repayment of the revised 
outstanding balance. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Ben Murray
Ombudsman