DRN-3123204
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Healthcare Finance Limited dealt with a claim he sought to 
bring under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Healthcares correspondence in this complaint has been via an associated loan servicing 
company. For the purposes of clarity Ill refer to submissions from either of those parties as 
being from Healthcare.
What happened
Mr M entered into a finance agreement with Healthcare to fund some dental treatment he 
was receiving from a third party S. He says the treatment in question was for teeth whitening 
and realignment, which involved a medical assessment, provision of aligners and retainers 
over a recommended period, along with aftercare service.
S undertook the initial assessment and provided the aligners. Unfortunately, as Mr M was 
nearing the end of his course of treatment S became insolvent. As a result Mr M didnt 
receive the retainers. He contacted Healthcare, seeking to recover what hed paid for the 
course of treatment. He says that because the course wasnt completed, his teeth were 
starting to return to their original position, rendering the whole treatment worthless. Mr M felt 
this was a breach of contract for which he was entitled to hold Healthcare liable under the 
connected lender liability provisions of section 75.
Helathcare agreed it had a liability under section 75, but didnt accept Mr M should get a full 
refund. It said hed received some of the treatment, but acknowledged not all of the 
equipment had been provided to him. It offered to reduce the balance of his loan by £298, 
representing the value of the missing retainers and the teeth whitening. Mr M didnt accept 
this offer and asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator concluded Healthcare had made a reasonable offer in line with its section 
75 responsibilities. The amount it had offered in reduction of the loan balance enabled Mr M 
to obtain the outstanding treatments elsewhere. Although hed since complained about his 
teeth returning to their original position, the investigator found that Healthcares offer had 
been made at a point where Mr M would have been able to take steps to avoid this 
happening. And she didnt consider the aftercare service to be of material value to the 
contract such that its non-provision warranted further compensation.
Mr M disagrees and has asked for this review. He maintains that Ss breach of contract 
should mean that the contract is null and void, and that he should therefore get all of his 
money back. He adds that he was in any event unable to undertake alternative treatment as 
the events took place during restrictions in effect due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance arrangements between Mr M, Healthcare and S were such that he was entitled 
under section 75 to claim from Healthcare for Ss breach of contract. I dont understand there 
to be any real dispute here over whether S failing to provide the full course of treatment 
amounts to a breach of contract, but for the avoidance of any doubt, Ive proceeded on the 
basis that it does.
Where the parties disagree is on the matter of the appropriate remedy for that breach. In this 
respect, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) makes certain remedies available to Mr M, 
depending on whether the contract is for goods or services. The service elements to Mr Ms 
contract appear to have been to undertake the initial assessment, provide ongoing support 
during the course of treatment, and an aftercare service which hasnt been clearly defined. 
The goods element was of course to provide the aligners, retainers and materials for tooth 
whitening.
In respect of the contracted services, the failure would be in respect of the aftercare service 
S was offering. Absent any clear description that this aftercare service amounted to any 
more than the ability to talk with S following his course of treatment, I think it would be 
difficult for Mr M to make a case that it had a material value enabling a claim. So I dont 
consider Healthcares response unreasonable in this respect.
The materials that S failed to provide to Mr M are however something that can be readily 
established and evaluated. Healthcare has determined the value of the missing retainers 
and whitening materials as £298. My understanding is that prior to it ceasing trading, Ss 
website indicated the cost of a replacement set of retainers was €149. This is comparable to 
market rates for retainers of this type (clear plastic) when ordered online. And the amount 
proposed in respect of the whitening treatment is similarly priced. So it seems to me 
Healthcare has proposed an amount that fairly reflects the cost Mr M would have faced from 
an alternative source in obtaining the items S didnt provide.
I understand Mr Ms point of view here. He thinks that the breach ought to entitle him to all of 
his money back. But I think its far from clear that this is a remedy hed be able to obtain 
based on what the CRA provides. The breaching party would no doubt be entitled to argue 
that it can make a deduction from any such refund to reflect the value that was provided 
under the contract. That would leave the position much as it is now. And while I note what 
Mr M has said about his reticence in approaching another online dental provider, given his 
past experience, I think its unlikely that a decision he freely made about this would make 
Healthcare further liable to him.
The law expects that, once Mr M was aware S wouldnt be fulfilling the contract, he could not 
just sit back and allow any resulting loss or harm to grow. He would be expected to take 
reasonable steps to limit or avoid the loss or harm. In light of the knowledge his teeth were 
starting to move, I think reasonable steps here would have been for Mr M to source the 
retainers from another online provider  particularly if at the time he was unable to visit a 
dentist in person due to the pandemic. Mr M hasnt demonstrated that he took such steps, 
and that might well prevent any financial recovery he could make relating to the 
effectiveness of the treatment due to the non-provision of the retainers.
My final decision
In light of my findings, my final decision is that Healthcare Finance Limited has made a 
reasonable proposal to settle Mr Ms complaint. I dont require it to take any further action to 
resolve matters.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman