DRN-3224025
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc after he 
requested a new bank card.
What happened
Mr S mislaid his NatWest debit card. He contacted the bank to cancel the card and request a 
replacement. Mr S was overseas at the time and NatWest said it was unable to send his 
replacement card there. So Mr S asked the bank to send his replacement card to a UK 
address. Mr S said there also were problems with NatWest accepting his security responses 
during calls as he wasnt aware he still had a very small balance on an old account.
The replacement card didnt arrive and a second card also failed to arrive. Mr S said he had 
to return overseas and he gave NatWest another UK address to send a card to. Mr S said 
that card took a month but he didnt receive the PIN until later. He felt it wouldve been easier 
if NatWest had sent his new card to a branch but he was told that wasnt possible. 
Mr S says NatWest shouldve checked the addresses it was sending his replacements to 
more carefully. They couldnt all have been lost in the post. Hed been caused a great deal of 
inconvenience and the £50 compensation offered wasnt acceptable. He hadnt been able to 
use his account for about six months and had missed out on the chance to buy some kitchen 
units. Mr S had also been forced to travel back and forth trying to resolve the problem and 
he believes the banks mistakes has cost him around £2000. 
NatWest apologised for any trouble or upset caused to Mr S. It could see Mr S had difficulty 
passing the security questions due to a very small remaining balance on a savings account. 
And itd credited Mr S with £50 for any trouble and upset. NatWest said the cards had been 
sent to the addresses provided by Mr S but unfortunately seemed to have been lost in the 
post. And it didnt feel itd done anything wrong.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with NatWests response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator felt NatWest had acted correctly when 
asking Mr S security questions before discussing his financial matters. Although Mr S wasnt 
aware he still had a very small amount of money in a savings account, NatWest hadnt been 
asked to close the account. And it wasnt unreasonable to ask a customer how many 
accounts they held with it as part of the security checks.
But our investigator appreciated how frustrating the whole issue mustve been for Mr S. 
NatWests records showed a number of replacement cards had failed to arrive at either of 
the addresses provided by Mr S. 
The records suggested two of the cards had been sent to a slightly different flat number, and 
there did seem to have been a mix up at some point. 
Overall our investigator didnt think the address issues were the fault of NatWest. But 
although a replacement card would normally only have been sent to a branch in exceptional 
circumstances, our investigator felt NatWest shouldve done more to help Mr S. 
And he said NatWest should pay Mr S an additional £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
NatWest accepted our investigators view, but Mr S felt the compensation should also 
include his travel and hotel costs because of the extra journeys hed had to make. And hes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see our investigator has provided a thorough timeline in relation to the card requests, 
so I wont repeat all of that here. 
But its clear Mr S became increasingly frustrated by the banks attempts to deliver a 
replacement card for the one thatd been lost. So Ive looked very carefully at everything 
thats happened, and whether NatWest needs to do anything more to put things right.
When Mr S lost his debit card he was staying overseas. And although NatWest was able to 
cancel the lost card, it wasnt able to send a replacement to him. Thats not unusual, as 
banks are concerned about sending financial information overseas and the bank wouldve 
felt there was an increased risk to send the new card to his current location. 
I understand Mr S kept failing his security questions as he was unaware NatWest still had an 
open savings account in his name  even though it only had a very small balance. I 
appreciate this wouldve added to Mr Ss frustrations, but I cant really say NatWest did 
anything wrong here. 
Its important customers are able to correctly answer questions about, for example, the 
number of accounts they hold with a bank. This helps safeguard both the customer and the 
bank from potential fraud.
When Mr S returned to the UK he visited a branch to request a replacement card to a UK 
address, but it failed to arrive. And a second branch visit and further card request failed to 
resolve the problem. 
There seems to have been an issue with the address used by NatWest. Mr S had provided 
the address of a large property thatd been converted into flats. And it seems the flat details 
may have been misheard, as the mistaken letter and number sound very similar. This would 
explain why the confusion continued when Mr S confirmed the address on the telephone at a 
later stage. 
In any event, both cards failed to arrive at the UK address provided by Mr S and he had to 
suggest a further UK address to NatWest. Again Mr S was told that his replacement card 
would normally arrive within 3-5 working days. But the card took a few weeks and the PIN 
letter arrived even later.
I do understand Mr Ss frustration. Although there are other ways of accessing an account, 
Mr S isnt used to online banking and he found it very difficult to manage without his debit 
card for a number of months. 
Mr S is adamant he gave the bank the correct address details for the flat. But the bank 
believes it had the correct details and says there mustve been a problem with the postal 
delivery.I havent been able to listen to all of the calls between Mr S and NatWest. And I cant be sure 
exactly what was said when Mr S visited the branch. But I can see it would be easy to 
mistake the letter and number used in the initial address. They sound similar and when 
confirmed by phone its possible either or both parties thought they had heard the correct 
details. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest NatWest didnt send the replacement cards when Mr S 
requested them. But the first two cards didnt arrive as expected. And the card sent to the 
second address took longer than expected to arrive. 
I appreciate it wouldve inconvenienced Mr S to have to return to the UK to try and sort this 
out. But I cant really hold NatWest responsible for the non-delivery of Mr Ss cards. Thats 
something that was out of its control. And there isnt enough information to be sure exactly if 
and why there was a small mistake in the address used by the bank.
But I do agree with our investigator that NatWest couldve considered using branch delivery 
after the first two deliveries failed. NatWest says it only allows branch delivery for new cards 
in exceptional circumstances. Its normal procedure is to deliver the card and PIN separately 
to the customer address it has on file.
The initial problem with security questions caused by an old account that Mr S was unaware 
of may have delayed matters further. But Mr S would want his bank to follow its procedures 
properly to ensure his bank account and money was held securely. 
Im sure Mr S understood why the bank might not want to send his replacement card 
overseas. And it wouldnt be fair to hold NatWest responsible for any problems with mail 
delivery. But I do think it couldve done more to help Mr S obtain a new card when it was 
becoming clear there was a problem. And I think its reasonable for NatWest to compensate 
Mr S for the trouble and upset hes been put through.
NatWest couldve given Mr S a better service than he received. Although the bank would 
normally only arrange for a card to be sent to a branch in exceptional circumstances, I think 
it shouldve considered how difficult Mr S was finding it to obtain his new card and use his 
account again.
Putting things right
I recognise the inconvenience Mr S has been put to and the distress caused while trying to 
get a replacement card. Ive carefully considered everything Mr S has said. And Ive looked 
at the records and information provided by NatWest. But I cant ask NatWest to cover the 
cost of Mr Ss travel from overseas. That wouldnt be fair.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive seen I 
think our investigators suggestion of an additional £150 compensation for Mr Ss trouble and 
upset is the right amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr S an additional £150 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 Andrew Mason
Ombudsman