DRN-2330268
The complaint
Ms M  on behalf of U Ltd  complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed her business 
account.
What happened
Ms M is the director of U Ltd. She complained to Lloyds when the companys bank account 
was closed in November 2019, as the bank said they has not received information requested 
as part of their ongoing Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. Lloyds said that they sent a 
letter on 19 September 2019 requesting further information from U Ltd, explaining that the 
account would be closed on 11 November 2019 if it was not received. 
Ms M complained as she says she did not receive this letter, or any warning that the account 
would be closed. She also said that Lloyds should have been more efficient in the original 
questions they asked, as this wouldve meant they had no need to ask the follow up 
questions that ultimately led to the account being closed.
 
Lloyds acknowledged that they could have gone into more detail in their questioning and 
offered £150 compensation. But they did not consider they were at fault as theyd given 
notice in their letter of 19 September 2019 that they would close the account. Ms M referred 
the matter to this service and said Lloyds should pay at least £400 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Lloyds had sent the letter 
to the correct address and had fairly closed the account when they didnt receive the 
necessary information they required. He also considered the compensation offered for not 
asking detailed enough questions in the first place to be fair. Ms M disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Lloyds wrote to U Ltd on 5 September 2019, and again on 19 September 2019, explaining 
that they needed further information in order to complete their KYC checks. They enclosed a 
form and asked U Ltd to complete it with supporting evidence by 11 November 2019 and set 
out the following:
Well restrict access to your account if we dont hear from you
Without this information we wont be able to continue to offer you banking services. 
This means we will have to restrict access to your account(s) and proceed to 
closure
So Im satisfied that Lloyds clearly set out what U Ltd had to do, the deadline it had to do it 
by, and the consequences of failing to provide the information. 
Ms M says she did not receive Lloyds letter of 19 September 2019. But I can see that it was 
correctly addressed, and that the letter was even signed for on 23 September 2019. Ms M 
says she thinks the signature was forged on the delivery receipt, but Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest this was the case. I understand she has been in touch with Royal Mail 
to question this, and that they said there was an internet glitch. But I note that they still said 
it looks like the letter was indeed delivered on 23 September 2019. So Im satisfied the letter 
was most likely received by U Ltd, and that they ought reasonably to have known of Lloyds 
request for information and potential closure of the business account. 
Ms M submits that closing U Ltds account is a disproportionate and draconian response. But 
Lloyds are obliged under regulation to carry out ongoing KYC checks to protect accounts 
from identity theft, fraud and financial crime. So if they do not receive the necessary 
information/evidence required to allay those risks, I do not consider that closing the account 
is a disproportionate measure to take. Lloyds terms and conditions also state that they are 
entitled to close an account without notice if at any time the customer fails to meet any 
checks required by law or regulation.
Ms M says that Lloyds should have made more attempts to contact her. But having seen that 
they sent letters on 5 and 19 September 2019, and had confirmation from Royal Mail that 
they had been delivered and signed for, I do not think there was any reason for Lloyds to 
suspect that U Ltd was not aware of what it had to do. So I dont consider they have failed to 
treat U Ltd fairly by not chasing up the letter through alternative means of communication.
Finally Ms M says that Lloyds ought to have asked more detailed questions when they 
initially conducted their KYC checks, as this would have avoided the need for further 
information. I appreciate the business review process could have been conducted more 
efficiently, and Lloyds have also conceded this point. But KYC checks are ongoing, meaning 
it may not be limited to questions being asked on just one occasion. Lloyds has offered £150 
compensation for failing to ask more detailed questions from the outset, which I consider to 
be fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to U Ltd. And Im not persuaded any 
further compensation is warranted in these circumstances, so I will not be directing Lloyds to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M  on behalf 
of U Ltd  to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman