DRN-3400926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC relating to their 
offset mortgage. Mr P has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have an offset mortgage. Barclays only applies interest to the part of the 
mortgage balance which exceeds the balance on Mr and Mrs Ps linked accounts. 
The balance of Mr and Mrs Ps linked accounts varies. This means the amount of interest 
applied to the mortgage account also varies each month. Mr P says he needs regular 
statements to keep track of the amount of interest being applied and manage his finances. 
He says statements have been provided on different dates each month or not at all, or 
weeks or months late. Mr P says this has been going on for two years and Barclays gave 
him inconsistent information about what was happening. 
Barclays said the issue with the statements has been sorted out. It paid compensation of 
£650 to Mr and Mrs P for the inconvenience caused. Our investigator said this was fair.
Mr P sent detailed comments about why he didnt agree. He said he remains concerned as 
there was no evidence the problem had been fixed. In fact, he says there are still statements 
that he cant view or download online. Mr P says hes not being given information about his 
account in a timely manner, in breach of the rules on mortgage regulation. Mr P would like 
the problem fixed and compensation that reflects the time hes spent on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says they received regular statements for the mortgage until 2020. He first complained 
about a missing statement in September 2020. Mr P says statements can appear online 
weeks or months late, or not at all. Mr P says when statements are loaded late they are still 
dated as if they were produced at the beginning of the month. He says this means Barclays 
technical staff cant see the problem.
Mr P would like statements to be available online reliably and on the same working day each 
month, with an email notification sent to him when this happens. At the moment, Mr P has to 
log into online banking to see if the statements are there. If not, he calls Barclays to request 
missing statements, which is a waste of his time. He says if Barclays cant fix its systems it 
should put a solution in place. 
I should first say that Barclays is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement, to make decisions about its systems and processes. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, and we dont have the powers of a regulator, for 
instance to fine businesses or require them to change their systems and processes. What I 
can consider is whether Barclays treated Mr P fairly. 
I should also explain that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised, and Im not required to do so to reach a fair decision in this case. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr P and Barclays and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr P first raised a complaint about a statement not being available in September 2020. 
Barclays agreed there was a technical problem. It sent the September 2020 statement to 
Mr P and paid compensation. Barclays accepts it took too long to respond to this complaint. 
Mr P remained unhappy about the way his statements were made available online. In 
August 2021 Barclays told Mr P there were problems with statements for offset mortgages. It 
says there were delays at that time loading statements online, but theyd been sent by post 
at the right time.
In October 2021 Barclays told Mr P statements were being uploaded in accordance with its 
processes. It said statements are generated on different days each month  this is how the 
system works. It said its IT team couldnt find evidence the system wasnt working as it 
should. Barclays offered to send statements by post, which would also be available online, 
but this wasnt something Mr P wanted. 
Mr P says there were other errors. He says he receives statements by post despite having 
opted out. And Barclays sent him documents he hadnt requested. 
I understand Mr Ps frustration, both about the problems hes experienced and that he cant 
be certain these problems wont recur. 
Barclays says its systems are working as they should. I cant provide evidence of this to 
Mr P  Im not sure how Barclays would provide such evidence. I think, in the circumstances, 
I have to accept in good faith what Barclays says  that its systems are now working as 
intended. This doesnt of course mean they work the way Mr P would like. 
Some of Mr Ps requests are outside Barclays process. It wont commit to make statements 
available on the same working day each month, or within a certain number of days, or send 
a notification when a statement becomes available. I appreciate this would be convenient for 
Mr P  hed know when to log in to see his latest statement. But Barclays is entitled to make 
commercial decisions about its systems and processes, and I cant tell it how to manage its 
business or services. 
Barclays says statements are dated the date they are produced. The statement becomes 
available online after its been digitised and loaded onto the system, some days later. I dont 
think its an error that the statements are dated the date they are produced, even if they are 
actually available to Mr P (online or by post) after this.
Mr P says he doesnt want to go to another provider due to the cost of re-mortgaging and the 
favourable terms of his Barclays mortgage. He says he shouldnt have to  Barclays should 
provide a better service. I understand what Mr P says. Ultimately though its for Mr P to 
weigh the benefits of staying with Barclays against the frustration he feels about its 
processes.
Barclays paid £650 to Mr P for the time it had taken to respond to his complaint, the inconvenience caused and sending him documents he didnt request. It sent sweets to his 
children as he spent a long time on a call during their holiday.
Mr P says hes made multiple calls each month. Some of these calls were during holidays 
and days off when he should have been with his children. Mr P says this should be taken 
into account when assessing whether the compensation offered by Barclays is fair.
I understand that Mr P feels strongly about this matter and hes spent a lot of time contacting 
Barclays. It must be frustrating when statements arent available online. But I have to be fair 
to both parties. Barclays tried to resolve the issues raised by Mr P, although I appreciate that 
Mr P doesnt feel it achieved this. It offered an alternative to Mr P  to send statements by 
post. This might not be Mr Ps preferred option, but he would receive his statements on a 
timely basis. And he wouldnt need to call Barclays multiple times each month when 
statements werent available, or during his holidays.
I appreciate that Mr P will be disappointed, but I think the compensation paid by Barclays is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Barclays has told us its systems are working as 
intended. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by Barclays Bank UK PLC are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman