DRN-2778631
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Aetna Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline her
claim under her private medical insurance policy. Mrs S is represented in her complaint by
her son, Mr S.  
What happened
On 14 January 2019, Mr S telephoned Aetna to enquire about taking out an international 
private medical insurance policy on behalf of his mother. Mr S explained that his mother 
lived in India but was shortly intending to travel to other countries, including to the USA 
where Mr S was living.
After speaking to Aetnas adviser, Mr S agreed to take out the policy on behalf of his mother. 
The cover started on 16 January 2019. The policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis, 
meaning that Mrs S was not covered for conditions which existed in the two years before 
taking out the policy. Aetna also provided Mrs S with a travel insurance policy.
One of the benefits under the private medical insurance policy was cover of up to $1,000 for 
routine health checks. On 24 January 2019, Mr S asked Aetna for authorisation to allow his 
mother to undergo such a check in India ahead of her travelling to the USA. Aetna provided 
this authorisation and Mrs S underwent the check shortly afterwards. Her doctor (who Ill call 
Dr Y) arranged for her to undergo various tests, including CEA (a test for the presence of 
cancer) and a mammogram.
The mammogram revealed a lump in Mrs Ss breast which warranted further investigation 
through a biopsy. On 10 February 2019, the day before his mother was due to fly out to the 
USA, Mr S telephoned Aetna to inform it of this. Aetna confirmed that it would provide cover 
for the further investigations even if his mother was in the USA.
On 11 February 2019, Mrs S flew out to the USA.
On 24 February 2019, Mr S asked Aetna to authorise a biopsy and further mammogram. 
Aetna provided this authorisation.
On 4 March 2019, Mrs S underwent these further investigations. Sadly, she was diagnosed 
with breast cancer.
On 8 March 2019, Mr S contacted Aetna to inform it of this diagnosis. He asked that it 
authorise the treatment of Mrs Ss condition.
Aetna advised Mr S that, in view of the moratorium underwriting which applied to the policy, 
it would need to conduct further enquiries to make sure the condition was not pre-existing.
While Aetna undertook its enquiries, Mrs S began her treatment which she self-funded.
Aetnas enquiries became protracted. It agreed to suspend the collection of premiums 
pending the outcome of its assessment. However, by 18 April 2019, it had still not made a 
decision. Mr S complained about the delay.
Eventually, on 23 May 2019, Aetna informed Mr S it was declining the claim. It said that Dr Y 
had confirmed to it that Mrs S was suffering symptoms of her condition, including loss of 
appetite, weakness and tiredness, before the policy started and that it was because of this 
that he arranged for her to undergo the mammogram and CEA. It said Mrs Ss breast cancer 
was therefore a pre-existing condition for the purposes of the policy and hence excluded 
from cover.
In June 2019, Mr S, on behalf of his mother, appealed against Aetnas decision. He further 
said that if Aetna wouldnt pay for the treatment, he would like to cancel the policy and 
receive a refund of the premiums hed paid so far as he could then put that money towards 
the cost of the treatment.
Aetna responded to say it would allow Mr S to cancel the policy but it wouldnt refund the 
premiums he had already paid (though Mr S later successfully claimed back the March 2019 
premium payment through his bank). It reiterated that it was satisfied Mrs S was displaying 
symptoms of her condition before the policy started. It further said that its investigations had 
revealed that Mrs S had undergone a biopsy and cancer test in a hospital in India in 
December 2018 and that this showed she was aware of her condition at the time she took 
out the policy.
Mr S continued to dispute Aetnas decision. He denied that his mother had attended hospital 
in December 2018 as claimed by Aetna. He also complained that in carrying out its enquiries 
it had breached his mothers data security.
Aetna wouldnt change its decision on the claim and denied it had acted inappropriately. 
Mr S therefore referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy is written on a moratorium basis. This means Mr S wasnt asked specific 
questions about his mothers health before he took out the policy. Instead, pre-existing 
conditions were automatically excluded from cover under the following clause:.
 your claim will not be paid if it's relating to a pre-existing medical condition should 
one or more of the following have applied within the 24-month period before your date of 
joining (or the date shown in the special terms section of your Certificate of Insurance):
it could be reasonably foreseen that the medical condition would occur after your 
start date
the condition clearly showed itself,
you had signs or symptoms of the condition,
you asked for advice about the condition,
you received treatment for the condition, or
to the best of your knowledge, you were aware you had the condition"
Mrs S is claiming for treatment of breast cancer. For Aetna to decline the claim, it needs to 
show that at least one of the above bullet points applies.Let me acknowledge at the outset that the assessment of whether Mrs Ss condition was 
pre-existing was made more difficult by the fact that it appears medical records in India are 
not necessarily kept electronically and in the same rigorous form that might be expected in, 
for example, the UK. It was also made more difficult by inconsistent information which was 
given by Dr Y, though this may in part be due to the absence of accurate records to which he 
could refer.
However, we know that the policy started on 16 January 2019. And we know that Mr S called 
Aetna on 24 January 2019 to seek pre-authorisation for his mothers routine health check 
ahead of her trip to the USA. I dont find it surprising that Mrs S underwent this health check 
at this time as Mr S had indicated that he intended for this to happen when he rang up to 
enquire about the policy on 14 January 2019.
We know that Dr Y therefore saw Mrs S sometime after 24 January 2019. Aetna at one point 
said that Dr Y had reported seeing Mrs S about three months earlier but it has provided no 
evidence to support this so Im satisfied I can disregard this. Dr Y has instead confirmed that 
he saw Mrs S on two occasions, a few days apart, but it is not clear exactly when this was.
We know one of the occasions was 28 January 2019 because there is a document showing 
that on this day he arranged for her to undergo particular tests as part of her health check. 
Dr Y has also confirmed that when he saw Mrs S, she was suffering from symptoms of 
breathlessness and weakness, though he also apparently mentioned other symptoms such 
as tiredness and a cough. He apparently variously said that she had been experiencing 
these symptoms for a few days, a week or so and maybe ten or fifteen days.
Aetna has speculated that the first occasion when Dr Y saw Mrs S was 25 January 2019. It 
said that if Mrs S had been experiencing her symptoms for ten to fifteen days, this would 
mean she had the symptoms before the policy started on 16 January 2019. And assuming 
that these symptoms were related to her breast cancer, it would mean her condition was pre-
existing for the purposes of the policy and thus excluded from cover.
I consider that Aetnas argument is based on an assumption about when the first meeting 
took place between Dr Y and Mrs S which is not necessarily correct; Mr S says that the two 
meetings were on 28 January 2019 and 5 February 2019 and has provided a signed letter 
from Dr Y confirming this. Aetna has also relied on the upper end of Dr Ys various estimates 
about the duration of Mrs Ss symptoms. Taking these factors into account, I dont consider 
that Aetna has reliably shown that Mrs S was suffering from her reported symptoms at the 
time the policy started.
But most crucially, I dont consider that Aetna has shown that these symptoms were related 
to her breast cancer in any case. It says that these may be symptoms of advanced or stage 
4 metastatic breast cancer but, as I understand it, Mrs S was not diagnosed with this. 
I therefore have no reasonable grounds for concluding these were symptoms of her 
condition. And Dr Y has reported that he believed her symptoms to be a viral fever which 
had improved when he saw her on the second occasion.
Aetna has also pointed to the choice of tests which were carried out as part of the wellness 
check, which included a mammogram and CEA, as evidence that Mrs S was exhibiting 
symptoms of breast cancer. However, it now appears to accept that the mammogram was a 
routine test which could reasonably be expected to be included even in the absence of 
symptoms. And the evidence indicates that the CEA test was automatically included in the 
particular package of tests offered by the laboratory. I note that the policy document 
highlights cancer screening as an example of the routine health tests which would be 
covered by the policy and the adviser also mentioned this during the sales call. Mr S has 
furthermore provided evidence to show his father, who underwent a health screening from the facility at the same time, also underwent the CEA test. Dr Y has confirmed that these 
were included as a matter of routine and I see nothing suspicious in the choice of tests.
Overall, I consider there is nothing from the testimony or actions of Dr Y which reasonably 
shows that Mrs Ss breast cancer was pre-existing under the terms of the policy.
The mammogram which Mrs S underwent revealed a lump in the left breast which warranted 
further investigation. Aetna considers this was likely to have been present and noticeable 
before the policy started. I have considered this opinion but given there is no other evidence 
to indicate that Mrs S was aware of the lump, I dont think it is, in itself, compelling evidence 
that the condition was pre-existing. I also note that Aetna was provided with the 
mammogram report on 20 February 2019 and it provided pre-authorisation for further 
investigations including a biopsy without raising any concerns at that time that the condition 
must have been obvious to Mrs S before the policy started.
After making its decision to decline the claim, Aetna carried out further enquiries to try and 
establish Mrs Ss medical history and thus support its decision. These enquiries included 
approaching various hospitals to see if there was evidence that Mrs S had sought treatment 
at them in the past. It claimed that one such hospital had confirmed Mrs S had undergone 
treatment in December 2018 which was related to cancer.
I consider that if Mrs S had undergone such treatment, it would clearly prove her claim was 
invalid. However, when challenged to provide further evidence to support this, Aetna was 
unable to provide anything. Mr S repeatedly asked Aetna for further details, such as the 
patient ID number, so that he could investigate this for himself. Aetna wouldnt provide 
anything. It simply said it was confident in the information it had obtained.
I dont understand Aetnas position. If it was completely confident in the information it had 
obtained, it should have had no objection to providing the patient ID details to Mrs S, or to 
Mr S acting on her behalf, because she was, after all, the patient in question. It seems 
absurd to tell a consumer you have made a decision based on their private information 
which you have accessed and then refuse to give them details to enable them to access this 
information for themselves. I can only conclude that, contrary to what it said, Aetna in fact 
realised that the information it had been given was unreliable. Mr S made his own enquiries 
and was unable to find any evidence that his mother had attended the hospital in question. 
I consider it is likely that the information which Aetna obtained was wrong. I have no 
reasonable grounds for believing that Mrs S ever sought advice, underwent investigation or 
received treatment for her breast cancer at the hospital in question.
Aetna has pointed to various actions of Mr S and says these demonstrate that he took out 
the policy knowing his mother had breast cancer and with the intention of enabling her to 
travel to the USA to receive the best treatment available. I agree there are certain actions by 
Mr S and his mother which are surprising and which may raise suspicion. These include 
Mr Ss choice of insurance policy for his mother (comprehensive private medical cover rather 
than the far cheaper option of straightforward travel insurance cover), the type of questions 
he asked before taking out the policy, and Mrs Ss decision to go ahead with travel to the 
USA even though a mammogram had just revealed a breast lump which was highly 
suggestive of malignancy. I consider Mr S hasnt really given a convincing explanation for 
these actions. However, while the behaviour of Mr S and his mother may on occasion 
appear surprising, I dont find this to be strong enough evidence to show that they must have 
been aware of her breast cancer before taking out the policy.
I therefore consider Aetna was wrong to decline Mrs Ss claim. The investigator 
recommended that it should provide cover up until 12 June 2019 when Mr S cancelled the 
policy. However, I dont consider this is fair. Mr S would clearly not have cancelled the policy in the middle of his mothers treatment if Aetna had been providing cover. I therefore 
consider the fair outcome is that Aetna should reinstate the policy and provide cover in 
accordance with the policys remaining terms and conditions. Mr S should provide it with full 
details of his claim and Aetna should settle this, with interest where necessary, though it may 
make an appropriate deduction for the premium payments and any other payments (such as 
any coinsurance payment) which Mr S is required to make.
I should point out to Mr S that under the terms of the policy, Aetna was entitled to cancel the 
policy once his mother had spent more than 183 days in the USA. If Aetna chooses to 
exercise this option, it will not be liable for the treatment costs incurred after this time.
Mr S has referred to the possible cover provided by the travel policy taken out at the same 
time. Mr S has not yet attempted to make a claim under this policy and so I am not 
considering that within this decision.
Mr S has also asked me to consider payment of compensation. I recognise that there were 
reasons for being suspicious of the claim. I also recognise that the lack of reliable medical 
records in India made it more difficult for Aetna to investigate possible fraud so I can 
understand why it had to resort to approaching various hospitals in search of evidence 
without knowing whether Mrs S had actually been treated at those hospitals. I am not 
therefore going to award compensation for potential data privacy issues.
However, I consider that Aetnas wrongful decision to decline the claim after Mrs S had 
already commenced her treatment would have been extremely stressful and upsetting to 
Mrs S. Her son has explained that, having started treatment, she was too ill to return home 
and so had to remain in the USA for the treatments duration. I consider the anxiety of having 
to find money to fund the treatment would have been extremely stressful during what was 
already a very difficult time. I consider that Aetna should pay Mrs S £1,000 compensation for 
the stress and anxiety caused to her through its declinature of her claim.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Aetna responded to say that in order for it to pay Mrs Ss claim, she would need to sign a 
consent form to allow it to approach the US hospital to obtain details of her treatment.
Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, responded to say that while they were grateful that I had found in 
his mothers favour, she was now recovering well and they had moved on from the 
experience. On reflection, they had therefore decided they didnt want to engage further with 
Aetna and so didnt wish to pursue her claim or to receive compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Instead, they just wished to receive a refund of the premiums which had 
been paid for the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aetna hasnt provided any further evidence. I therefore remain of the opinion that it was 
wrong for it to decline Mrs Ss claim for the reasons I have already given.
However, Mrs S no longer wishes to pursue that claim, or to receive compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Instead, she and Mr S simply want to receive a refund of the 
premiums they paid for the policy.
Aetna has confirmed that only two premium payments were made, in January and February of 2019. The refund of premiums is therefore apparently worth far less than the redress 
which I proposed to award in my provisional decision. However, if this is what Mrs S wants in 
resolution of her complaint then I see no reason to deny her request. Aetna has also 
confirmed it has no objection to this change in redress.
Given that Mrs S no longer wants to pursue her claim, there is clearly no need for her to sign 
the consent forms provided by Aetna.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aetna Insurance Company Limited to refund the premiums which Mrs S (or Mr S on 
her behalf) paid for the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman