DRN-4309683
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont allow him to withdraw money from 
his sons junior ISA before his son is 18.
What happened
Mr A raised a complaint with Nationwide because they wouldnt allow him to withdraw money 
from his sons junior ISA. Nationwide responded and explained to Mr A that the terms of the 
junior ISA included that no money could be withdrawn before the account holder  Mr As 
son  was 18 years old. And because Mr As son was presently only eleven years old, this 
meant that no money could be withdrawn from the account. Mr A wasnt satisfied with 
Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr A remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the Junior ISA include that no money can be withdrawn from the 
ISA before the account holder reaches the age of 18.
Mr A says that when he took out the Junior ISA for his son roughly ten years ago, he was 
never made aware of this term. Given the length of time thats elapsed since the account 
was opened, it isnt possible to confirm what was or wasnt explained to Mr A at that time. 
But I feel that its reasonable to assume that Mr A would have been presented with the 
account terms and conditions and key features documents when he opened the account, 
both of which confirm that no money can be withdrawn from a Junior ISA until the account 
holder reaches the age of 18. And if Mr A wasnt presented with those documents at that 
time, then I feel its reasonable that he should have requested them, or that he should have 
reviewed the rules for Junior ISAs online or via some alternative channel. 
Ultimately, I feel that it was Mr As responsibility to have ensured that he understood the 
nature of the Junior ISA that he opened for his son before he opened it, including that no 
money can be withdrawn from Junior ISAs until the account holder reaches the age of 18  
which it must be noted is one of the fundamental terms of a Junior ISA.
Mr A has also expressed his disappointment with the return from Nationwides Junior ISA 
over the years it has been held. But while no money can be withdrawn from a Junior ISA 
until the account holder reaches 18, Mr A was free to transfer the account balance to 
another Junior ISA offered by a different provider  if Mr A felt that a better rate of interest 
could be achieved by doing so.
Mr A has also said that during his discussion with Nationwide about the Junior ISA, 
Nationwide explained that money could only be withdrawn from an account before the 
account holder reaches the age of 18 in exceptional circumstances, which included the child 
becoming terminally ill or passing away, which Mr A found to be distressing. 
I can appreciate why this information might have been upsetting for Mr A to hear. But I dont 
feel that Nationwide intended to cause Mr A distress. Rather, I feel that Nationwide were 
correctly explaining to him the types of circumstance that would be considered as being 
exceptional circumstances regarding Junior ISAs.
Finally, I note that Nationwide referred Mr A to HMRC, who review the merits of individual 
requests to withdraw money from Junior ISAs early. This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, 
given that HMRC hold the relevant authority here. And I also note that HMRC declined the 
request of Mr A to withdraw money from his sons Junior ISA in this instance.
All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here as Mr A contends. Rather, Im satisfied that Nationwide have acted in 
accordance with the terms of the Junior ISA, which I feel it was Mr As responsibility to have 
been aware of and understood before he opened the account for his son.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting. But it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further or alternative action here. I hope 
Mr A will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman