DRN-3472412
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a package bank 
account.
What happened
In January 2017 Barclays migrated Mr Ds Graduate Additions account to a Barclays Bank 
account with Tech Pack.
Mr D said Barclays unfairly changed his account without his knowledge or consent therefore 
it was mis-sold.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as 
Mr D disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has explained that Mr D was not sold the Tech Pack account. Instead the change 
was made to his account as part of a review carried out by Barclays of its accounts where it 
made the commercial decision to stop offering the Graduate Additions account. As part of 
this process Barclays customers accounts were migrated to accounts that best matched the 
ones they had previously held.
This type of commercial decision is relatively common within the banking industry. Banks 
can review the accounts they offer and either remove or amend the accounts and benefits 
they offer.
Generally, we consider a businesss decision to migrate customers accounts fair. This is not 
a sales process, but we do expect Barclays to give fair notice of the change and explain the 
options Mr D had.
Barclays has provided a copy of the correspondence that were sent to Mr D around the time 
his account migrated from the Graduate Additions account to the Tech Pack account.
On 21 October 2016 Barclays sent Mr D a letter. The letter explained that Mr Ds account 
would be changing on 13 January 2017 it gave information about the fees that applied to the 
account and also gave the option of changing Mr Ds account from a package bank account 
to a non-fee paying free bank account.
As this letter was sent more than two months before the migration of Mr Ds account, I think 
he was given reasonable notice of the change and had time to consider the options.
On 20 January 2017 Barclays wrote to Mr D again. The letter explained that the change to 
his account had now been made. The letter outlined the fee associated with the account and 
reiterated that Mr D had the option of a free account. The letter stated:
Your monthly fee for Tech pack will be £9.50. Just to remind you, your Barclays Bank 
Account has no monthly fee Please take the time to explore whats in the Pack to make 
sure its right for you, Packs are optional, so you can remove Tech Pack or add other Packs 
at any time.
I think the correspondence sent to Mr D around the time his account was migrated clearly 
explained the change and that Mr D had the option to have a free account. So, I think 
Barclays met its obligations to Mr D when the account migration took place.
Mr D has told us that there is another address similar to his within a short distance of his 
home and sometimes his post ends up at the wrong location. I appreciate what Mr D has told 
us, but each address will have a different postcode and I see no reason why his post would 
not be delivered correctly. Some road names are relatively common but, in my experience, 
this doesnt generally affect the delivery of post. 
Mr D has also explained that he doesnt take much notice of letters he receives from 
Barclays as he receives a lot of marketing material. So, this may also have been a reason 
Mr D was not aware of these letters being sent to him. I am not able to hold Barclays 
responsible for Mr D not taking notice of the post he receives.
Mr D has further explained that as part of a sales process he should have been asked 
questions to confirm if the account was right for him and offered good value. But as Ive 
explained above, the change to Mr Ds account was not part of a sales process so the same 
rules do not apply.
In summary I think Barclays met its obligations to Mr D when his account was migrated. Mr 
D should have been reasonably aware of the change and was given a reasonable amount of 
time to decide if he wanted to continue with the change or downgrade his account to a non-
fee-paying account. So, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman