DRN-4134332
The complaint
Mr N complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) 
mistakenly said that his account had been closed with a zero balance.
What happened
Mr N has an outstanding debt with Everyday. In October 2022, Mr Ns debt management 
company (DMC) contacted Everyday to set up a repayment plan. Everyday mistakenly told 
the DMC that there was no outstanding balance on the account.
Mr N says he planned his income based on the information from Everyday, so was upset to 
learn that he still owed money. Mr N wants Everyday to honour the misinformation and write 
the debt off. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ns complaint be upheld and asked Everyday to pay 
£50 to apologise for the upset caused. 
Everyday agreed to our investigators proposal but Mr N doesnt think £50 fairly takes 
account of the hassle caused.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Everyday agrees that it made a mistake when it told the DMC that there was a zero balance 
on Mr Ns account. So, my decision focusses on whether the investigators recommendation 
that Everyday pays Mr N £50 goes far enough to put things right.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but I agree with the investigator that £50 is fair compensation. I 
say this because the impact of the mistake on Mr N was fairly short-lived. Mr N emailed the 
DMC on 11 November 2022 to say that the statement it provided showed a zero balance for 
the Everyday loan when there should have been an outstanding balance. So, I think at this 
point, Mr N thought thered been a mistake and that he still owed money to Everyday.
The DMC responded to Mr Ns query on 19 November 2022 suggesting that he contact 
Everyday. Mr N spoke to Everyday on 22 November 2022 and it confirmed there was an 
outstanding balance. 
Given the fairly short time frame, Im not persuaded that Mr N made significant changes to 
his personal circumstances based on the mistaken understanding that he no longer owed 
money to Everyday. I do recognise that Mr N would have felt a level of disappointment but 
consider that £50 adequately reflects the brief upset caused together with the inconvenience 
of some additional contact. I dont consider it reasonable to require Everyday to write the 
debt off. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr N.
 
Putting things right
To put things right, Everyday should pay Mr N £50.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I require Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to put things right in line with above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman