DRN-3478652
The complaint
Mr R says that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) are relying on the wrong version of 
a finance agreement he has with them for a car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
There are two copies of the finance agreement here. Mr R says the one he has in which 
there is a lower interest rate, higher annual mileage limit, and lower final balloon payment, is 
the right one.
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is the same on both agreements so there can be no 
argument that either finance agreement is for a different car. That VIN is the VIN for the car 
Mr R financed. Registration numbers can change, and appear to have done so here, but I 
think the VIN is the most reliable identification mark
Ive looked at both agreements to see which I feel is more likely to represent the one Mr R 
reached with FCA when the finance was established in February 2017.
I think the agreement held by FCA is most likely to be the final binding version. I say that 
because there are inconsistencies in the copy of the agreement Mr R has presented, as 
follows:
The font and spacing of the numbers in the agreement presented by Mr R is different 
than in the rest of the agreement. In the FCA agreement it is consistent throughout.
The APR in Mr Rs version doesnt have a decimal point but other numbers in the 
document do. That inconsistency isnt present in the FCA agreement.
The £10 Option Fee isnt included in the Final Payment and shouldve been. It is 
correctly listed in the agreement FCA have presented.
If the agreement FCA hold wasnt the one that Mr R thought he was responsible for I think it 
likely that he would have challenged the information in his annual statements over the years 
his agreement was active. Those statements listed a different registration number than Mr R 
says was valid and a higher interest rate. I think its likely Mr R would have complained much 
earlier had the agreement FCA were holding him to not have been the one he agreed.
Im not therefore persuaded that FCA have done anything wrong here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman