DRN-2663007
The complaint 
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them two bank 
accounts for which they had to pay monthly fees. They think that HSBC should refund these 
fees to them and add interest. 
What happened 
Mr B was not born in the UK. He moved here in or around April 2008. At that time, HSBC 
sold him a bank account called a Passport account, for which it charged him a monthly fee. 
In July 2008, it then sold him a more expensive account called a Plus account, which 
replaced the Passport account. In April 2014, Mr B added Mrs B to the account and from 
then onwards it has been in their joint names. 
In November 2014, HSBC switched Mr B and Mrs B to a fee-free account but added a 
package of benefits which it called Insurance Aspects, for which it charged a lower fee than 
for the Plus account. This switch was part of a commercial decision that HSBC had made to 
change the range of accounts it provided to its customers. 
Mr B and Mrs B kept the Insurance Aspects package until July 2019, when they cancelled it. 
I previously sent Mr B and Mrs B and HSBC a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I anticipated upholding part of the case. But I gave both 
parties the opportunity to make any further points they wanted me to consider before I 
reached a final decision. 
The time I allowed for further comments has now passed. Mr B and Mrs B have not said 
anything further, but HSBC has written to us with some additional points. 
(During 2010, HSBC changed the name of the Plus account to an Advance account, but for 
simplicity, I have used the single term Plus throughout most of this decision). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr B and Mrs B and HSBC have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, including the new points HSBC made in response to my provisional decision, 
and Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ive explained why below.
Although the period of time between HSBC selling the Passport and Plus accounts 
to Mr B was quite short, the circumstances were quite different, so in my provisional 
decision I considered the way it sold each account separately. I have used the same 
approach here. I would like to point that except where HSBC has made new points, 
much of what follows is therefore very similar, though not identical, to what I said in 
my provisional decision.
The Passport account (April 2008)
In April 2008, Mr B had only just arrived in the UK. He didnt have a permanent address 
here and had little or no credit or banking history. Both parties have agreed that he went 
into one of HSBCs branches to open a bank account and that HSBC offered him a choice 
between only two, a Basic account, which was fee-free, and the Passport account.
The Basic account offered only a limited range of essential banking services, fewer than 
would usually be provided by a standard fee-free bank account. For example, it didnt 
provide a debit card.
The passport account offered more services, including a debit card. HSBC has described 
the Passport account as a tailored service designed for anyone new to the UK. Its benefits 
included multi-lingual help with relocation and possible savings on international phone calls. 
However, HSBC didnt usually offer customers with Passport accounts loans, overdrafts or 
other credit facilities.
Given Mr Bs circumstances as a new arrival in the UK, I think it was reasonable for HSBC 
to withhold its full range of accounts from him in April 2008. I think the choice of two it 
offered was fair. Mr B seems to have been keen to have a debit card, and Im satisfied that 
he chose the Passport account over the Basic account.
I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Passport account to Mr B.
The Plus account (July 2008)
HSBC has told us that it usually expected customers who had Passport accounts to keep 
them for around twelve months after moving to the UK in order to build up a strong enough 
credit history for it to offer them a wider range of accounts. I accept this to have been the 
case. Its therefore slightly unusual that HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr B within only 
three to four months of his arrival into the UK.
HSBC originally told us that it waived its normal system of credit scoring for new accounts 
and allowed Mr B to buy the Plus account, even though he still only had a short credit 
history in the UK. But it didnt offer to waive its normal system for a standard fee-free 
account.
 In response to my provisional decision, HSBC said that it wanted to clarify that what 
prevented (it) offering Mr B a fee-free bank account was the fact he wasnt listed on the 
voters roll. It has sent us a copy of a report from a credit reference agency to show this. 
I accept HSBCs clarification, and I also accept that in 2008 it had some discretion about 
which accounts to offer to Mr B. But a persons presence or absence on the voters roll 
usually forms part of a credit report, as it does here, so I do not find HSBCs clarification 
particularly significant. Moreover, it hasnt given us a reasonable justification for why it 
judged Mr B to have been eligible for a Plus account, despite his absence from the voters 
roll, but not for a standard fee-free account. I think this was unfair to Mr B. I think that when 
HSBC offered hm a Plus account, it should also have offered him a fair choice to have a 
standard fee-free account instead. Had it done so, I think he would have chosen the fee-
free account.After my provisional decision, HSBC also commented that if Mr B had been happy with 
his Passport account and willing to wait until he was able to provide address 
confirmation. he could have had a fee-free bank account. It has suggested that this 
could have been as early as September 2008 and intimated that this justifies its actions. I 
disagree for two main reasons. Firstly, I do not think that a possible course of action which 
Mr B could have taken in September 2008 justifies HSBCs not giving him a fair choice in 
July 2008. Secondly, although I do not think that HSBC mis-sold the Passport account to 
Mr B, from both this complaint and from his actions in 2008, I do not think it is fair to say 
that he was happy with it. I dont think he considered that it fully met his needs. 
HSBC originally told us that Mr B was free to downgrade the account to a fee-free current 
account at any time. In response to my provisional decision it said that Mr B could 
downgrade after 12 months. Im not sure which of these is accurate, but either way, 
HSBC seems to be saying that it was upto Mr B to take the initiative to rectify its mistake, 
which I dont think is fair. 
HSBC has also said that Mr B may have wanted some of the benefits that came with the 
Plus account, such as travel insurance and fee-free withdrawals from cash machines in 
some countries outside the UK. I accept that for some overseas nationals new to the UK 
these travel-related benefits may well have been attractive. However, Mr B has been very 
clear and consistent in telling us that he didnt want to pay for these benefits. He only 
wanted the type of banking service, including options for credit such as loans, that he could 
have obtained with a standard fee-free account. Had HSBC offered Mr B such an account 
alongside the chance to buy a Plus account, which I think would have been the fair thing 
for it to do, then again, I think he would have taken the fee-free option.
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC has also pointed out that Mr B may have 
saved some money from some of these benefits, including fee-free cash withdrawals 
outside the UK. I accept this, but once again I do not think these savings justify HSBC 
denying Mr B a choice. 
Mr B and Mrs B have told us that they kept the Plus account because HSBCs initial 
failure to offer them a standard fee-free account led them to believe it was the only way 
they could obtain the banking service they wanted in the UK. I accept their comments 
about this; they are consistent with what happened to them in 2008.
So, in summary, it seems to me that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mr B by not 
allowing him the choice to have a fee-free account. It follows that HSBC should put things 
right for Mr B and Mrs B by paying them appropriate compensation
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr B and Mrs B, HSBC should put them into the financial position 
they would have been in if it had allowed Mr B to take a standard fee-free account in July 
2008.
HSBC should therefore:
refund Mr B and Mrs B all the fees it charged them for the Plus account (and the 
subsequent Advance account and Insurance Aspects package),
add simple interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year from the date Mr B 
and Mrs B paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC 
must give Mr B and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if they ask 
for one.
If HSBC can show that Mr B and Mrs B gained financially from any of the banking benefits 
(such as cheaper loans) that came with the Plus account, then it may deduct the relevant 
amount from the compensation worked out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must 
set out its calculation clearly and simply for Mr B and Mrs B, so they can follow what it has 
done. 
(In correspondence with us, HSBC has said that when Mr B first held the Plus account, one 
of the benefits he received was a discount on an insurance policy it sold him called 
Lifechoices. I would like to clarify that I do not consider it appropriate for HSBC to deduct 
this discount from the compensation, as I am not confident Mr B would have paid bought 
the policy for full price. Similarly, I would also like to clarify that HSBC does not owe Mr B 
and Mrs B any money back in connection with the Passport account). 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding the part of Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint about the Passport account. But I am upholding the part of their complaint that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the Plus account to Mr B. 
HSBC should put things right for Mr B and Mrs B by paying the compensation I have 
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman