DRN-2283225
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains First Data Europe Limited trading as First Data Merchant 
Solutions (First Data) has treated it unfairly which has caused it to suspend trading. 
B is represented by its director, Mr E.
What happened
B entered into a merchant services agreement with First Data in early 2019. First Data would 
provide services to allow B to take card payments from customers in return for monthly fees 
to be paid by direct debit from Bs bank account. 
There were issues with the direct debit which led to the fees not being paid. This culminated 
in First Data taking its fees from payments B received from customers, in early September 
2020. Mr E complained about this. 
First Data considered the complaint and paid B £300. It recognised it had charged some 
fees for a service B hadnt benefited from, so it refunded those (about £129.87). The other 
£170.13 was as a gesture of goodwill for the direct debit concerns Mr E had raised. First 
Data said it was entitled to take its fees from customer payments, so it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong by doing so.  
Mr E didnt think First Data had done enough to put things right. This was because he 
thought withholding customer payments had led to significant cash flow issues for B which 
meant it couldnt buy stock and therefore couldnt trade. He referred the matter to our service 
and for an independent review.
Our investigator thought First Data had acted fairly overall. She was of the view that        
First Data had withheld customer card payments as it was entitled to, and she felt the 
compensation B had been paid was appropriate. 
Mr E, on behalf of B, didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He remained of the 
opinion First Datas actions had caused  and continue to cause  significant difficulties for 
B. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr E and the 
difficulties hes faced keeping B as a going concern in light of the pandemic and cash flow 
problems. I have no doubt that this year has been very challenging for him. 
My role, however, is to give an impartial view on this complaint. I must therefore tell Mr E 
that Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and so wont be asking First Data 
to do more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
B uses First Datas service so that it can accept card payments from customers. First Data 
charges fees for this service which are supposed to be paid monthly from Bs bank account. 
It appears a fee hasnt been successfully taken from Bs bank account for the duration of 
their relationship. Mr E says this is First Datas fault. But Im not persuaded thats the case. 
A direct debit was set up initially. This appears to have failed twice  once because of 
insufficient funds and a second time because it had been cancelled. First Data cant be 
responsible for there being insufficient funds and the records Ive seen satisfy me the direct 
debit was cancelled by either Mr E, or Bs bank. So I dont think First Data are responsible 
for the direct debit failing.
From December 2019 B was in arrears. Over the following months First Data sent several 
direct debit mandates for Mr E to complete and return. Mr E says he completed and returned 
them 14 times. However, a direct debit wasnt set up so the fees continued to go unpaid and 
the arrears continuned to accrue. 
Ive looked at First Datas records and I havent seen anything to show a completed direct 
debit mandate was recieved. I find it unlikely that several could have been lost in the post or 
discarded by First Data in error. I also find it unlikely that First Data would purposefully not 
action one as it was in its interests to do so. On balance, I find it most likely First Data didnt 
recieve a completed mandate. It follows that I dont think it was responsible for a direct debit 
not being in place to take the monthly fees.
In July 2019 First Data wrote to B. The letter said B was about £500 in arrears. It said if 
payment wasnt recieved by 5 August 2020 it would take the arrears from Bs customers 
card payments. I think this letter was clear in putting Mr E on notice of what would happen if 
the arrears werent paid. 
Mr E says he called First Data in August 2020 and it was agreed the arrears could be repaid 
at a rate of £100 a month. First Data doesnt have a record of this call. I can see it has a 
record of other calls it had with Mr E both before, and after, Mr E says this call happened. So 
I think its most likely there would be a record if this call had taken place. I can also see that 
a payment for £100, or more, wasnt made in August. On balance, Im not persuaded an 
agreement for clearing the arrears was reached in August 2020. In any event, as no 
payment was made, if there was an agreement, it appears not to have been kept to.
By early September 2020 the arrears were about £550. First Data decided to use money 
from Bs customers card payments to reduce the arrears. The terms and conditions allow 
First Data to do this - which Mr E doesnt appear to dispute. I can understand why Mr E was 
unhappy with First Datas actions given it meant B didnt receive money it thought it would 
from sales. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, I think it was fair for First Data to do 
what it did.
When Mr E complained First Data acknowledged it had been charging fees for a service B 
wasnt benefitting from so it refunded them. It also paid compensation in recognition of taking 
payment for fees it shouldnt have and because of the concerns Mr E had raised about 
getting a direct debit set up. In total First Data paid B £300. In light of the findings Ive made 
above, I think this was a fair offer and therefore wont be ordering First Data to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that the £300 payment First Data Europe Limited has already made to B is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, on behalf of 
B, to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman