DRN-1576588
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax) is displaying 
information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M experienced financial difficulty and entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS). 
Once the DAS was finished Mr M discovered that some of the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) were reporting that his debt with Halifax had been settled but one showed it as 
partially settled and that the debt is being paid as part of a debt management plan rather 
than was being paid as part of a debt management plan. He thinks Halifax has 
misunderstood the law and is trying to pressurise him to pay the fees as a condition of 
marking his account correctly.
When Mr M complained to Halifax it said it shouldnt have continued to apply interest to 
Mr Ms credit card after the DAS was agreed. It also confirmed the Bank reported the status 
of the account differently with various CRAs. To put this right and for the inconvenience 
Mr M experienced, it offered him £50 and said it had written off the interest that shouldnt 
have been charged. It also said that it would report to all CRAs that the account had been 
fully settled. It didnt, however, agree it had done anything else wrong.
Mr M wants Halifax to remove the debt management marker from his credit file, ensure the 
fees are not showing as his responsibility on its systems and for Halifax to change the way it 
deals with any future consumer who is going through a DAS.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Halifax acted fairly when 
reporting Mr Ms accounts to the CRAs and it wasnt pursing him for any further costs.
Mr M disagrees. He says in one of its letter Halifax states: The balances are effectively 
written off. The bank may choose to keep a record internally of how much was repaid and 
what was outstanding. Mr M takes issue with this because he thinks this shows Halifax 
claims there is something outstanding and the whole purpose of the DAS is that the debts 
are repaid in full.
He maintains that it is not correct to say that the debt is being paid as part of a debt 
management program. He thinks the use of the word "is" on one of the CRAs report 
indicates that the debt is not repaid. He thinks Halifax needs to work with the relevant CRA 
to correct this and that its procedures appear to break the law, and he would like them to be 
changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms concern here. But first I must explain that this service isnt a regulator. 
We look at individual complaints and decide whether a business has or hasnt treated that 
individual fairly. In this case Ive looked at Halifaxs final response and I agree with it that it 
could have handled things better, but I think what is has done and what it offered to do was a 
fair response, so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at the CRA report Mr M provided with the latest date showing as 24 April 2019. 
This shows the debt as settled which I think is fair. It also has the words that Mr M objects to: 
The account is being paid as part of a Debt Management Program. I understand why Mr M 
thinks this is wrong and it should say the account was rather than is being paid as a part of a 
DMP. But the words appear in a note to explain entries made prior to the debt being settled. 
The note therefore accurately explains the position at that the time of the note and so isnt 
wrong. I also dont think anyone used to reading CRA reports would be confused by it. 
Ive also looked at Halifaxs final response letter. Again, I understand Mr Ms concern with 
the words "The balances are effectively written off. The bank may choose to keep a record 
internally of how much was repaid and what was outstanding." 
Halifax, in response to a question from me, has confirmed in writing that the debt has been 
fully satisfied under a DMP and its records reflect this. It has also confirmed that the £50 it 
offered to Mr M is still available. In the circumstances, especially given Halifax confirmation 
of what it means, I think that Halifax has done what it needs to do and therefore I wont be 
upholding the complaint. I leave it to Mr M to decide whether he wants the £50 Halifax has 
offered to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman