DRN-3194171
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible 
for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from March 2020, Mr H had a van insured with AXA. With about 7 years no-
claims discount (NCD), the insurance cost about £410.00.
In June 2020, Mr Hs vehicle and a third partys vehicle were involved in an incident. The 
third party reported that Mr Hs vehicle had hit the rear of her stationary vehicle. She 
provided images from a camera from the rear of her car.
AXA tried to contact Mr H for his version of events. AXA wrote a letter asking for his 
comments on the third partys claim. Unfortunately, AXA got Mr Hs address wrong, including 
an incorrect city. 
AXA settled the third partys claim.  
In March 2021, Mr Hs insurance was due for renewal. AXA quoted a renewal premium of 
about £1,133.00.
Mr H complained to AXA.
By a final response dated late March 2021, AXA offered £100.00 with regards to the 
incorrect address and for delay in providing information to Mr H.
Unhappy with that, Mr H brought his complaint to us in April 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator  
thought that AXAs response was reasonable.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
There was no damage to the third party's vehicle.
He thinks that at the time of the incident the third party could not see any damage. 
This would have been on the full video, not just the bits she selected to produce.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the video images that the third party provided to AXA. We asked AXA to ask  
for the full footage, but nothing further has  been made available to us.
Its common practice for an insurance company that has paid a claim to treat it as a fault 
claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full.
Most motor insurance policies provide that the insurer may decide how to deal with a claim 
from a third party. AXAs policy term was as follows:

3. If we wish, we can take over and manage in your name, or the name of the person 
claiming, the defence, prosecution or settlement of any claim for our own benefit
4. We will be allowed complete control of any proceedings and settlement of any
claim(s)
5. You, or anyone else who is claiming under this policy, must provide us with any
assistance to enable us to settle or defend a claim, and details of any other relevant
insurances.
The effect of that term was that  on a question of liability to a third party  AXAs view would 
prevail over Mr Hs. I dont find that term unfair. But I will consider whether AXA have applied 
it fairly in Mr Hs case.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from both drivers and decide the extent to which each 
of them is responsible for causing damage or injury.
AXA received a claim from the third party and it was duty- bound to deal with it.
AXA wrote to Mr H asking for his version of events. It got his address wrong and I dont 
condone that. Mr H says he didnt receive the letter. But the house number, street and 
postcode were correct. So I dont hold AXA responsible for any problem with delivery.
In the absence of input from Mr H, AXA had nothing to rebut the third partys claim. 
AXA considered an engineers report of damage to the rear of the third partys vehicle and 
the estimated cost of repair. From the photographs, I find it fair and reasonable that AXA 
considered that the damage was consistent with the third partys video.
I find it likely that AXA knew from experience that it was very likely that a court would accept 
the third partys claim that Mr H had caused damage as noted by the engineer.
So AXA decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of court proceedings  it would 
settle the third partys claim. 
Im satisfied that AXAs decision was fair and reasonable, keeping in mind the policy term 
quoted above. 
I say that notwithstanding that the impact on Mr H includes loss of NCD and the likelihood 
that AXA and other insurers will quote higher premiums after the fault claim. 
I havent seen any evidence that AXA quoted Mr H a higher renewal premium than it 
wouldve quoted anyone else in his situation. Mr H was, of course, free either to accept 
AXAs renewal quote or to insure through another provider.AXA said it was sending Mr H a cheque for £100.00 for getting the address wrong and for 
delay in providing information. I dont doubt that these shortcomings caused Mr H some 
irritation at an already difficult time for him. But I consider that AXAs offer was fair and 
reasonable to try to put this right.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to change the way it has recorded the 
outcome of the third partys claim or to do anything else in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman