DRN-2913109
The complaint
Mr L complains that MS Amlin Insurance SE, his marine insurer, has unfairly declined his 
claim for damage to his boats engine.
What happened
Mr L owns a boat with an outboard engine. The engine stopped working following the 
ingress of water and had to be replaced. Mr L said this was due to an accidental malfunction 
and is covered by the accidental damage cover in his policy and claimed for the replacement 
under his All Risks Boat Insurance Policy. MS Amlin declined Mr Ls claim and he 
complained about this decision. 
MS Amlin said it declined the claim as the fault was due to the mechanical breakdown of the 
engine, which it says was due to significant corrosion (gradual deterioration). Its surveyor 
reported that its clear from photos and the extent of the corrosion, in particular the exhaust 
elbow replaced in April 2019, that the issue had been on-going for a long period. It said the 
manufacturers literature states that the anti-siphoning device needs to be cleaned at least 
twice a year, but service records dont show that had been checked or maintained. 
MS Amlin believe that the blockage to the anti-siphoning device was discoverable and 
avoidable through routine checks. It said it doesnt agree with Mr L that this was a sudden 
and accidental event as required by the policy and so his claim isnt covered.
Mr L obtained his own expert report from a repair garage, M who replaced his engine. And 
another expert inspection was carried out by repairers P.
Mr L said the cause of damage to his engine was the unexpected and accidental malfunction 
of the anti-siphoning device because of the blockage of the tiny hull outlet. He said this led to 
seawater travelling directly into the engine causing corrosion and malfunction as confirmed 
by M, a repairer. Mr L has provided evidence to support that he has carried out his due 
diligence in maintaining his boat each year as required under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said its likely that corrosion 
stopped the engine, but a marine engineer had confirmed that the proximate cause was the 
accidental blockage of part of the engine. She said it wasnt fair for MS Amlin to apply the 
exclusions for gradual deterioration and routine servicing. She said MS Amlin should 
reimburse Mr L for the replacement engine and the cost for the expert report he obtained.
MS Amlin disagreed, saying the loss was occasioned by mechanical breakdown caused by 
significant corrosion and Mr L hadnt maintained or serviced the faulty engine part. It said the 
claim is excluded by the terms of the policy as the damage wasnt accidental. MS Amlin said 
this had been identified by its engineer and a manager at P.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a policyholders responsibility to show their claim falls within the cover provided by the 
policy. It is then the insurers responsibility, if it wishes to decline the claim, to show that the 
claim falls within a policy exclusion. I have looked carefully at the circumstances of Mr Ls 
claim to see whether he has been treated fairly by MS Amlin in its decisions about his claim.
Mr L claimed under section A of his policy for all risks of accidental damage. In order to be 
covered Mr L needs to show that the damage occurred accidentally. From what Ive seen I 
consider that Mr L has demonstrated that an insured event has taken place under section A 
of the policy. MS Amlin say the damage wasnt accidental and falls within the exclusion 
clauses in the policy, as follows:
4.10 gradual deterioration unless it couldve been identified by routine inspection and could 
not have been prevented by servicing, maintenance or replacement in accordance with the 
relevant manufacturers instructions, or generally accepted practice and advice from a 
qualified marine surveyor who is a member of their relevant professional surveying body.
4.12 incursion of water into the vessel unless sudden and unforeseen, or accidental.
6.1 the cost of repairs or replacement to the Machinery directly caused by latent defect
or mechanical breakdown, unless cover is provided under section A 2.4;
Section 2.4 states:
2.4 Loss of or damage to the vessels main engine or attached gearbox caused by the
failure of any component, provided that: (d) you can provide written evidence that all the 
manufacturers maintenance recommendations have been carried out.
The expert evidence and photos Ive seen indicate that corrosion led to the engines failure. 
Our investigator didnt think it fair to regard this as the starting point of the damage because 
the corrosion was consequential upon the blockage to the anti-siphoning device. MS Amlin 
say thats not the case and the corrosion was long-term and could have been prevented. Ive 
considered the expert evidence about this.
P said its difficult to say for how long salt water had entered the engine and it can rust an 
engine very quickly. MS Amlins surveyor said the exhaust elbow is prone to corrosion and it 
isnt possible to say how long the anti-siphon had been blocked or, whether this had taken 
place before April 2019, or whether water had sat in the engine for four months from April to 
July 2019. But he said the engine had operated with water in it as there was corrosion 
throughout and staining in the cylinder bores that would suggest it had sat in water for a long 
time. The surveyor said its common for the exhaust elbow to corrode as a result of an 
exhaust repeatedly flooding due to siphon issues, as it will operate in seawater for long 
periods.
M, who replaced the engine in July 2019, said theyd removed the anti-siphon device and 
found no defect. They said; There is no question that the loss of the engine was caused by 
the shuttering of the anti-siphon vent; it is very difficult to ascertain this failure before noticing 
the failure and engine damage. Routine maintenance does not usually involve control of the 
anti-siphon and its pipes. Unfortunately, the shuttering of the anti-siphon vent is an accident.
M also said the type of device fitted to Mr Ls boat doesnt emit water to indicate if there is a 
problem. 
From this evidence I think it would have been very difficult for Mr L to have been aware that 
the anti-siphon wasnt operating in the way it should have. I havent seen a manufacturers 
instruction on servicing the device. It appears that replacement of the device is the intended 
means of addressing problems.Mr L hadnt reported problems with the anti-siphon device from the boats launch in 2018 or 
any problems with the engine. Mr L had maintenance to the engine carried out in December 
2018, but theres no record from the service of water in the engine or failure of the anti-
siphon device. The exhaust elbow would also have been checked as part of the 
maintenance in December 2018, and there were no reported problems. From this I have 
assumed that corrosion wasnt present within this part when the service was carried out.
I understand that MS Amlins surveyor didnt see the anti-siphoning device attached to Mr Ls 
boat and based his report on what he thought would be the device fitted and why it may 
have failed. I find that Ms report carries more weight as Ms engineer dismantled the device 
to determine the cause of its failure. M confirmed that there was no fault with the anti-
siphoning device but it had become blocked. Because of the time when the service was 
carried out, I think the blockage happened between December 2018 and June 2019. Ps 
engineers said the exhaust elbow would've been prone to corrosion whether in water or not 
and had to be replaced before it got worse. 
Mr L launched the boat again in May 2019, and said it ran without problems for a month. 
Rapid corrosive effects of sea water mean that a month of water getting into the engine, are 
likely to have caused corrosion and possibly to stop the engine working as Mr L discovered.
I dont think the evidence supports that there was water in the engine prior to May 2019, as 
this would likely have been shown on the maintenance records. MS Amlin said that had the 
engine been subjected to routine inspection its loss could have been prevented and said that 
this is recommended by the manufacturer. 
Ive looked at the manufacturers instructions and its clear that maintenance is required. The 
anti-siphon device doesnt appear to have been serviced as part of the normal maintenance. 
However, I dont think the first of the exclusion clauses (above) should fairly be applied to Mr 
Ls claim. From what Ive seen I think the water ingress into the engine was sudden and 
unforeseen. I agree with the investigator that the cause of the loss was most likely the 
accidental blockage of the anti-siphon device and this was the proximate cause of the 
subsequent damage. It follows that I consider the damage to have come about in a sudden 
and unforeseen manner and not to be in the nature of gradual deterioration. 
The policy requires Mr L to take all measures to maintain the boat and machinery. From 
what Ive seen, Mr L has complied with this and paid for regular maintenance. As I have 
said, the maintenance of the engine part in question doesnt form part of regular engine 
maintenance, irrespective of what the manufacturer recommends. It follows that Mr L would 
not have known that this maintenance was required.
This is a finely balanced complaint and I can well understand the points that MS Amlin has 
made in support of its position. However, on the balance of probabilities, I think that although 
corrosion damaged the engine, it wasnt the proximate cause of its loss. I havent found that 
Mr L is at fault in his maintenance of the engine and so I dont think its fair to apply the 
exclusion clauses that MS Amlin has relied upon to decline the claim.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require MS 
Amlin Insurance SE to reimburse the cost Mr L incurred to replace the engine for his boat 
and reimburse him for the cost incurred for the expert report he obtained. Mr L should 
provide invoice evidence of the costs if he hasnt already. 
MS Amlin Insurance SE should add 8% interest to these payments calculated from when the 
amounts were paid by Mr L to when it makes the payment to Mr L. HM Revenue and Customs requires MS Amlin Insurance SE to take off tax from this interest then MS Amlin 
must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr L asks for one.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman