DRN-2967671
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy about the way in which U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim
made on her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
All references to UKI include its claims handler and administrator of the LEI.
  
What happened
 Miss P has the benefit of a property owners insurance policy (the policy) which includes 
LEI.
In August 2019 she entered into an Assured Shorthold Tenancy Agreement (the tenancy
agreement) with a tenant to rent a property she owned. The tenancy agreement was due to
last 12 months.
The terms of the tenancy agreement included the tenant paying seven months rent up front
and a deposit. The tenancy agreement also prohibited the tenant assigning or subletting
Miss Ps property  or allowing another person to live there.
In November 2019, Miss P says she visited her property and discovered that the tenant had
sub-let it. She wasnt happy about this. So, Miss P contacted UKI with a view to make a
claim on the LEI; and obtain legal assistance to obtain and enforce a possession order.
At the end of November 2019, UKI advised Miss P that she needed to issue the relevant
statutory notice before it could consider covering a repossession claim under the terms of
the LEI policy. Legal advice was obtained from the legal advice line under the LEI section of
the policy - operated by an independent law firm. Miss P was advised to issue the tenant
with a notice under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 (the HA); a section 8 Notice. She was
advised to rely on ground 12 - a breach of an obligation under the tenancy agreement -
which is a discretionary ground.
Miss P served a section 8 Notice and contacted UKI in early January 2020 to say that it was
due to expire on 17 January 2020. On 13 January 2020, ahead of the Notice expiring, UKI
agreed to appoint one of its panel law firms (the panel firm) to consider the claim.
By way of an email dated 20 January 2020, the panel firm advised Miss P that her claim
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. Thats because a discretionary ground was
being relied to support her application for possession. The panel firm also advised that a
Section 21 Notice was unlikely to succeed as the tenancy agreement was still within its fixed
term, with almost eight months remaining.
However, the panel firm did say that if the tenant was in arrears by two full months, a section
8 Notice could be served on the tenant again, relying on a mandatory ground. And any future
claim on that basis would enjoy reasonable prospects of success.
As Miss P had received rent upfront, the next monthly rent payment wasnt due until mid-
February 2020.
Unhappy with the advice and service shed received, Miss P complained to UKI.
By way of a letter dated 29 February 2020, UKI said it wasnt responsible for legal advice
Miss P received from the legal advice line. However, it accepted that there had been a
breakdown in the quality of its communications with her, and UKI apologised for this. It also
offered Miss P £100 compensation in recognition for the poor service shed received from
UKI. Miss P was invited to contact it if, and when, the tenant was two full months behind with
rent. It later increased its compensation offer to £150.
Subsequently, the tenant did miss two monthly rent payments. However, by then the
Coronavirus Act 2020 had come into force in March 2020. This included a provision whereby
tenants were protected from eviction for three months. So, UKI said it wouldnt consider a
claim at that stage as it wouldnt be possible for Miss P to evict the tenant before June 2020.
The tenant continued to default on the monthly rent payments due under the tenancy
agreement. And in May 2020, UKI referred the matter back to the panel firm to advise on the
prospects of Miss P succeeding in her underlying claim.
Towards the end of June 2020, the panel firm reported to UKI that it was still awaiting further
documents from Miss P to enable it to assess prospects of success. And shortly thereafter
the panel firm confirmed that the section 21 Notice Miss P had already served on the tenant
didnt meet all the necessary requirements to be compliant so didnt currently enjoy
reasonable prospects of success.
However, the panel firm advised that if it drafted and served another section 21 Notice on
the tenant, and they didnt vacate the property, Miss Ps claim would enjoy reasonable
prospects of success. The Notice was promptly served on the tenant, as confirmed by the
panel firms letter to UKI dated 2 July 2020.
Miss P raised several concerns including:
The advice shed initially received via the legal advice line which lead to the wrong
Notice being served on the tenant;
Once the section 8 Notice shed served on the tenant had expired on 17 January 
2020, she had been told that her claim would be covered. She wasnt told it would 
only be covered if prospects of success were at 51% or above;
Shes unhappy with the advice she received from the panel firm in January 2020, 
advising that the prospects of obtaining and enforcing a possession order were no 
more than 50% based on the discretionary ground used in support of the section 8 
Notice;
The policy didnt make any provision for her claim not being able to progress
because of a pandemic, such as Covid-19. So, she doesnt think its fair that her
claim wasnt allowed to proceed in or around March 2020.
Ultimately, our investigator partially upheld Miss Ps complaint. She felt that UKIs offer of
£150 to compensate her for the poor level of communication in the early stages of her claim
fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience that caused her. She also felt that UKI should
ask the law firm to confirm in more detail why prospects of Miss P succeeding in the claim
were assessed to be no more than 50% in January 2020. However, our investigator didnt
think UKI had done anything else wrong.UKI didnt reply to our investigators opinion. So, Miss Ps complaint was passed to me to
look at everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 March 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to
uphold Miss Ps complaint. An extract of which appears below:
The initial prospects assessment:
UKI is entitled to appoint a legal representative to assess the merits of Miss P succeeding in
her claim and, if she had more chance of succeeding in that claim than not, representing her
in that action (subject to the remaining policy terms). Its common for LEI policies to include a
condition like this and generally our Service doesnt think that sort of clause is unfair. Thats
because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt likely to
succeed, or where a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to start, or continue with,
legal action.
Miss P is unhappy the legal advice received from the legal advice line under the LEI section
of the policy - and with the advice received from the panel firm placing the prospects of her
succeeding in her claim at no more than 50% in January 2020.
Im currently persuaded that UKI is responsible for the legal advice provided by the helpline
because the law firm is operating the helpline on behalf of UKI, and hadnt been appointed to
act for Miss P. However, unless the legal advice is obviously incorrect, or had been proven
to be so, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to find that UKI has done
anything wrong. Im currently satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on the
advice of the law firm operating the legal advice line as to which statutory notice Miss P
should serve on the tenant in this particular case.
Further, our Service cant consider complaints about the general legal advice or service
given by a legal representative once appointed to represent a policyholder in their claim
under the policy. Once appointed, the legal representative  in this case, the panel firm - isnt
under UKIs control. They are independent professionals with their own regulator and
complaints procedures.
Our Service can only consider whether UKI did anything wrong in the way it handled the
insurance claim. That includes whether the advice given to Miss P by the panel firm was
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that UKI shouldve reasonably
questioned it. I dont think thats the case here.
I know that the panel firm advised that prospects of success were below 51% because the
Judge on any given day had the absolute discretion whether to grant a possession order
where a section 8 Notice had been served relying on ground 12. And the panel firm didnt
explain which factors might make a Judge more  or less  likely to exercise their discretion
in favour of Miss Ps application. But Im currently satisfied that when UKI initially withdrew
cover under the policy in January 2020, it reasonably relied on the advice of the panel firm
that the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success.
And even if UKI shouldve reasonably asked further questions about the initial advice given
in January 2020, I dont think its likely that the panel firm wouldve altered its assessment
on prospects as a result. Thats because the law firm did reiterate to Miss P by way of its
letter dated 29 June 2020 that: if a mandatory ground cannot be satisfied under section 8 of
the HA, then the claim for possession is deemed to be below the threshold for prospects of
success. This is on the basis that you will be relying on discretionary grounds, as such it will
be at the Courts discretion as to whether to award the Order or not.Miss P has said that if prospects of successfully pursuing a possession order based on a
discretionary ground under Section 8 of the HA is unlikely to be above 50%, then there
should be a clear exclusion in the LEI terms reflecting that such claims arent covered.
However, its not the role of our Service to re-write an insurers policy terms. Im required to
look at the individual circumstances of Miss Ps complaint to see whether UKI has done
anything wrong. And having done so, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded it
unfairly relied on the legal advice when declining to cover Miss Ps claim in January 2020.
Nor am I currently persuaded that UKI told Miss P that once shed served the section 8
Notice her claim would be automatically covered going forwards. The LEI section of the
policy does say that UKI will cover costs and expenses to pursue [Miss P]s right to obtain
possession of the premises provided that all statutory and contractual notices had been
correctly serviced by [her] on the tenant. But Im satisfied that coverage was always subject
to the remaining terms of the LEI which included her claim having reasonable prospects of
succeeding.
By way of an email dated 29 November 2019, Miss P was informed by one of UKIs
representatives that: should your claim fall within the cover provided by the policy I will look
to appoint one of our preferred solicitors to deal with the matter.
However, Im satisfied that the funding of the claim was subject to the remaining terms of the
policy being met, which included the requirement for the claim to have reasonable prospects
of success. And thats supported by UKIs letter to Miss P, also dated 29 November 2019,
which sets out what will happen next now that Miss P had reported her claim. It reflects: if
your claim is covered, well send the details to a lawyer who will work with you. The lawyer
may need to take the time to gather some information in order to pursue the claim. The
lawyer will assess whether you are more likely than not to win - for most civil claims, you
must have a 51% chance or greater of succeeding. If you are not likely to win, well let you
know why.
Miss P also says that she was told by the law firm operating the legal advice line in
November 2019 that cover under the policy had been confirmed. After Miss P raised that
issue directly with UKI, I can see that it asked the law firm about this, as I would expect it to
have done. The law firm said it had gone back and listened to recordings of calls dated 21
and 22 November 2019 and no such assurances had been given.
Im therefore persuaded that UKI investigated Miss Ps concerns and reasonably concluded
that she hadnt been told that the claim would automatically be covered once the statutory
notice shed served had expired.
Other issues:
I agree that there isnt a provision in the policy to delay any claim made under the LEI 
because of a pandemic. However, when considering how Miss Ps claim should be 
handled, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to consider emergency legislation
which had been passed around that time. Its unfortunate that around the time the
mandatory ground Miss P sought to rely upon to gain possession of her property had
materialised, the Coronavirus Act 2020 had been introduced. That was outside of
UKIs control and Im not persuaded that it was unfair of UKI to delay Miss Ps claim
in light of the Act. Particularly as it prevented the eviction of tenants for at least three
months after it came into force (so until at least the end of June 2020). Nor do I think
UKI unreasonably concluded that the prospects of Miss P being able to evict the
tenant during that period were below 51%.Its also worth noting that UKI did provide cover for the panel firm to draft  and serve
on the tenant - the section 21 Notice promptly after the freeze on evictions had been
lifted in late June 2020. Under the terms of the policy, it wasnt required to cover the
cost of the panel firm undertaking that work. As set out above, and subject to the
remaining terms of the policy, UKI wont cover the costs of pursuing a repossession
claim until Miss P had correctly served all statutory and contractual notices on the
tenant.
Our investigator informed Miss P in her view dated 7 August 2020 that Miss P didnt
have rent guarantee cover in place as part of the policy. As such, UKI wouldnt be
able to assist her with covering the missed monthly rent payments. However,
if Miss P did have any documents reflecting that she did have the benefit of rent
guarantee cover, our investigator invited her to forward those to our Service to
consider. Miss P hasnt provided anything further along those lines. And having
considered Miss Ps schedule of insurance setting out the levels of cover for the
period 2019 and 2020, Im currently persuaded that UKI isnt required to cover any
rent thats owed to Miss P by her tenant under the terms of the policy.
UKI has accepted that there had been a breakdown in its communications with Miss
P in late 2019 and early 2020. And that the service it provided fell below the
standards it expected. Its offered Miss P £150 compensation and an apology for this.
Im currently satisfied that £150 reflects the distress and inconvenience she
experienced as a result of the unsatisfactory service she received from UKI during
that period. So, I dont intend to direct UKI to do anything further.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, and to provide any further
information they felt was relevant.
Response to my provisional decision:
Miss P didnt agree with my proposed findings. She raised several points in reply. In 
summary she said:
The policy clearly states that the claim will be independently assessed by a law firm
and if the prospects of success are at 51% or above, then the claim will be covered.
However, any repossession claim reliant on a discretionary ground wont have
prospects of success and is, in effect, excluded from cover under the policy. This
should be made clear in the policy terms.
She said shed provided evidence to the panel firm appointed by UKI to assess her
claim showing that that the property was sub-let. And, as a result, the panel firm told
her that it now considered her claim did have requisite prospects of success. She
says UKI unfairly interfered with the panel firms assessment, resulting in her claim
still not being covered.
She was repeatedly told during conversations with one of UKIs representatives that
she was covered for unpaid rent under her policy, and so was led to believe that she
had the benefit of rent guarantee.
The panel firm wasnt supportive or proactive when advising her about her claim. It
caused considerable delays in taking necessary actions. And once it did apply for 
the possession order, they were not fully prepared at the court hearing, which has
resulted in a further delay of at least five months.UKI didnt comment on my provisional decision. However, in light of the further points raised
by Miss P, I asked UKI for further information which it provided.
In light of the further information Id received, I issued a second provisional decision in July 
2021, explaining that I intended to partially uphold Miss Ps complaint. I proposed directing 
UKI to pay Miss P a further £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
An extract of my second provisional decision appears below:
UKI has told us that one of its representatives, when liaising with Miss P, overlooked that 
Miss P didnt have the benefit of rent guarantee with her policy. It accepts that he confused 
rent guarantee  whereby UKI can cover the outstanding monthly rent payment  with rent
recovery  which, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, covers the policyholders legal
costs in pursuing the tenant to recover the outstanding rent owed to them.
From what Ive seen  and for reasons set out in my first provisional decision - Miss P didnt
have the benefit of rent guarantee as part of the policy. As such, UKI wouldnt have covered
the missed monthly rent payments. So, ultimately, I dont think UKI is required to cover any
rent thats owed to Miss P by the tenant under the terms of the policy. However, Im
persuaded that Miss P wouldve been confused by the information shed received by UKIs
representative about covering unpaid rent and disappointed to later discover that she didnt
have the benefit of rent guarantee, when that wasnt made clear to her previously.
Having considered Miss Ps other points, I still dont think UKI has acted unfairly or
unreasonably by initially not agreeing to cover the repossession claim (under a discretionary
ground). The panel firm wrote to UKI at the end of January 2020 to say:
you will note that we previously assessed that the claim for repossession does not
enjoy reasonable prospects of success because the ground relied upon is a
discretionary ground. The insured contacted us and asked to consider the evidence
being relied on to satisfy the ground. We have reviewed the documentary evidence
and whilst the ground appears to be satisfied, our position is that we do not assess
that a claim on the basis of a discretionary ground only enjoys reasonable prospects
of success.
Ive also seen subsequent correspondence between UKI and the panel firm dated 2 March
2020  after the decision was taken to withdraw cover at the time.
Im satisfied that the panel firm didnt report to UKI that prospects of success were now at
51% given the further evidence provided by Miss P. Nor did UKI try to interfere with that
assessment in anyway  or tell the panel firm that the policy doesnt provide cover when a
discretionary ground is relied upon when applying for a repossession order. And whilst the
panel firm did tell Miss P on the same date that her insurer had confirmed that cover will only
be in place for a mandatory ground, Ive seen no evidence that UKI confirmed this to the
panel firm in this particular case. So, I dont think I can reasonably hold UKI responsible for
the information the panel firm told Miss P.
Ive listened to call recording from March 2020 during which Miss P raises her concerns with
UKIs representative about it having interfered with the panel firms assessment  and he
confirms that isnt the case. He offered more than once to contact the panel firm to clarify the
position and for the panel firm to confirm that they had reached their assessment based of
the circumstances of the case. But Miss P said she didnt want him to do this. That was, of
course, her choice. But I dont think UKI acted unfairly by offering to clarify the panel firms
advice for her.As explained in my first provisional decision, the panel firm again advised Miss P in June
2020 that the prospects of her succeeding in a repossession claim, relying on a discretionary
ground, were less than 51% and the reasons for this. Thats consistent with what it had
reported to UKI in January 2020  resulting in UKI taking the decision not to cover the claim
at that stage.
So, for the reasons set out in, this, my second provisional decision and my first provisional
decision - an extract of which appears above  I dont think UKI unfairly relied on the advice
on the panel firm to decline cover for Miss Ps repossession claim in early 2020.
In any event, the Coronavirus Act 2020 was introduced towards the end of March 2020. And
even if prospects of succeeding in obtaining a repossession order had been assessed to be
at 51% or above in earlier in March 2020, its unlikely that a court hearing wouldve taken
place before the Act came into force, protecting tenants from eviction. Further, by the time
the Courts were considering repossession orders again, UKI had appointed the panel firm to
commence eviction proceedings relying on a mandatory ground. So, I dont think Miss P lost
out as a result.
Although Miss P might not be happy with the way in which the panel firm has progressed her
claim since, UKI arent responsible for that. If she hasnt already done so, she should
complain to the panel firm in the first instance via its own complaints procedure.
Response to my second provisional decision:
I gave the parties a further opportunity to provide any comments. UKI didnt object to my 
second provisional decision. Miss P didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my second provisional 
decision. 
So, for the reasons already set out above, I partially uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct UKI to pay Miss P further compensation in the sum of £150 to reflect the
distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of being given confusing information
about having the benefit of rent guarantee  which she didnt have. 
This is in addition to the payment of £150 UKI has already made to her.
My final decision
 I partially uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman