DRN-4293469
The complaint
Mr L complains that his remortgage application with Barclays Bank UK PLC stalled, and the 
offer then expired, because Barclays failed to deal with an outstanding query over how his 
house is owned. Mr L wanted £10,000 compensation for the impact this had on him.
What happened
Mr L said hed applied to remortgage with Barclays in summer 2022. The remortgage had 
then stalled, because of a query over how his house is owned. The property is split across 
more than one title at the Land Registry, and the solicitors acting for Barclays had asked 
whether Barclays was happy to go ahead with this, or whether it wanted Mr L to merge the 
titles into one first, before it would let him remortgage. Mr L said there was never any answer 
to that question from Barclays, and he thought his mortgage offer would now have expired. 
Mr L told us about a health condition he has, which he said was disabling. He said what had 
happened here had caused repeated flare ups in his condition. Mr L wanted Barclays to pay 
the extra costs hed paid on his tracker mortgage, and to pay compensation of £10,000 in 
total.
When this case came to our service, Mr L hadnt received any formal response to his 
complaint from Barclays. So Barclays looked again at the case, and it accepted something 
had gone wrong. It said it issued an offer in mid-September 2022, once Mr L paid the 
outstanding fee. But in early November, the solicitors working for Barclays had asked 
whether Barclays was happy to secure its lending over more than one title. 
Barclays had then checked with the valuer whether the separate titles for Mr Ls property 
would need to be merged, and the valuer said they would be. Barclays said it had responded 
to the solicitors to tell them this. But Barclays said it had never responded to Mr Ls request 
at that time for his mortgage offer to be extended. It said it wouldnt have extended the offer 
then, but it should have told Mr L what was happening. In January 2023, Barclays refunded 
the product fee Mr L had paid, as his offer had expired. And it was shortly after this that Mr L 
asked us to look into things.
After this case came to our service, Barclays said it would now reinstate the mortgage offer 
that Mr L had first secured in summer 2022, at the same interest rate, so he could take up 
this mortgage offer now, if he wanted. As part of this, Barclays took the product fee of £899 
from Mr L again. Mr L says Barclays did that without any warning. 
Barclays also said it would make a payment to cover the extra costs Mr L had incurred on 
his old tracker mortgage in the interim. 
But Mr L said hed changed his mind about staying in this house. Cost of living increases 
now meant he would have to sell. So he no longer wanted the five-year fixed rate mortgage 
that Barclays first offered in summer 2022, because that would mean hed have to pay an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) if he did want to sell. 
Mr L wanted Barclays to pay compensation. He wanted Barclays to pay back the money 
hed paid to the solicitors working on its behalf, which totalled £229.60. And he wanted it to 
pay around twelve months of extra interest charges, which he said were roughly £300 each 
month, so £3,600. Mr L said the rest of the £10,000 he wanted would be compensation for 
the time hed spent on this complaint as well as the impact it had on his health. 
Barclays wouldnt pay that. It said it had already refunded the product fee, for a second time, 
and it offered £500 instead.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said he wouldnt ask Barclays 
to cover the additional mortgage costs that Mr L had asked for, which covered the difference 
between the tracker Mr L had and the fixed rate mortgage he could have secured, because 
Mr L had now decided he didnt want to take up a fixed rate mortgage after all.
Our investigator said Barclays should pay any outstanding mortgage fees Mr L had paid, the 
costs of £229.60 that Mr L paid to Barclays solicitors, and £750 in compensation. Our 
investigator said that was based on the length of time it took Barclays to attempt to resolve 
Mr Ls complaint, the time Mr L himself had spent trying to resolve it, and the considerable 
distress and upset this has caused Mr L, including the impact on his health.
Mr L replied to say he thought our service was acting for him, and £750 wasnt enough 
compensation for what he had gone through. Mr L said his medical condition was disabling, 
and we hadnt mentioned that. He said he felt prejudiced because our service hadnt given 
this the weight it deserved.
Mr L said he wanted a lot more compensation, and he thought as he was our client, we 
should have discussed this compensation amount with him, before sending this to Barclays.
Barclays said it would like to know what the solicitors fees it was being asked to pay, were 
for. If they were for the merger of titles, then Barclays thought this was likely to be beneficial 
when it comes to selling the property, so it wouldnt offer to cover this. Barclays still thought 
its suggestion of £500 in compensation was reasonable. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
Id like to start by setting out the basis on which our service operates. It appears, from 
comments Mr L has made recently, as if hes understood that we provide a consumer 
advocate service, helping him to achieve what he wants to resolve his complaint. But thats 
not the basis on which our service works. We arent on anyones side. We are set up by law 
as an independent dispute resolution service, and my role is now to resolve this case on the 
basis of what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And here, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It doesnt appear that theres any dispute that Barclays failed to communicate with Mr L 
about his mortgage application, after it reached the view that his property titles did need to 
be merged. His mortgage offer then lapsed, and Barclays also failed to deal with his 
subsequent complaint before he asked us to look into things. As part of this, Barclays 
refunded a substantial product fee, then took the money again, then refunded it again.
I understand that this has been very stressful for Mr L, and hes told us about the impact this 
had on his health. He has told us how this affects his daily life.
As part of assessing this case, I have to think about whats likely to have happened if 
Barclays hadnt made a mistake. And, although I do think Barclays made a mistake in failing 
to communicate with Mr L once it had decided the property titles should be merged, I dont 
think it was a mistake for Barclays to say that the titles to Mr Ls property would need to be 
merged into one, before the property could be mortgaged with it.
Unfortunately, the merging of property titles does take some time. And Mr Ls offer had 
under seven weeks to run, when this issue was raised by Barclays solicitors. By the time the 
valuer had told Barclays that the titles would need to be merged, there was less than a 
month left on the offer. So I think its more likely than not here, that Mr Ls mortgage offer 
would always have expired, before he was able to complete the merging of titles (which Mr L 
would have needed to arrange himself). 
So I think that, unfortunately, even if Barclays hadnt made mistakes in its communications 
with Mr L, this was always likely to have been a very stressful time for him.
But because of the poor service Mr L had experienced, Barclays said it would reinstate its 
offer, and pay compensation for the time hed been on a variable rate. We know, though, 
that Mr Ls circumstances have now changed, and he is selling the property. 
Fortunately, he isnt currently tied into a fixed rate mortgage, so no ERC will be payable once 
he sells. I do have to take that into account, along with all of the above information, when Im 
considering an appropriate outcome for this complaint. 
I must also take into account that Mr L has a health condition, which he has described as 
disabling. He said Barclays was aware of this, and I cant see that it has argued otherwise. I 
know that Mr L wanted Barclays to pay a considerable amount of compensation because of 
that  he said we should value his health and wellbeing more highly. 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr L that I dont think its reasonable to ask Barclays to pay the 
amount of £10,000 which he initially suggested for this complaint. I understand why he 
considers this is especially serious, but I dont think an award at that sort of level would be 
consistent with other awards our service makes.
But I do think that the impact of this complaint on Mr L would have been more severe, and I 
think its reasonable to say Barclays should have been aware of that. For that reason, I do 
think Barclays should pay both the fees that Im satisfied Mr L has paid to its solicitors, for 
remortgage work that wasnt completed, as well as £750 in compensation for the errors 
made, lack of communication, and the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr L and his 
health. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must refund Mr L £229.60 in fees which he 
paid to its solicitors, and £750 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman