DRN-3315202
The complaint
J complains Kennet Equipment Leasing Limited (Kennet) didnt treat her fairly when she 
was unable to afford payments on a hire agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J runs a hospitality business. In 2019 she approached a supplier, which Ill call A, for 
equipment. Rather than buy the equipment outright J hired it through Kennet. The hire 
agreement was for three years, at about £120 a month. J has said she wasnt given fair 
opportunity to read the agreement and no cooling off period was provided. Im not persuaded 
either of these points are relevant here. Ill explain why.
J placed the order for the equipment and signed the agreement, in several places, on 
19 July 2019. It wasnt until 24 August 2019 she received the equipment and signed a 
delivery note confirming her acceptance of the equipment and for the agreement to start. Im 
therefore satisfied J had opportunity to review the agreement - even if she hadnt initially - 
and change her mind. J didnt question the agreement or share her concerns around a 
cooling off period until after her circumstances changed, which Ill now move on to.  
In 2020 J was significantly impacted by the pandemic. Shes explained the impact this had, 
and I have a great deal of sympathy for the difficult time she experienced. I must, however, 
approach this matter objectively and be mindful this was a contract between two businesses 
 J and Kennet.
When J contacted Kennet to say she couldnt afford to make contractual payments it agreed 
to accept reduced payments of £25 a month. I find this was reasonable as it was a 
concession to support J and at the time the Financial Conduct Authority hadnt issued 
guidance around what support to provide. I accept J may have received contact from Kennet 
around this time which she didnt welcome. But my understanding is this was because shed 
cancelled her direct debit and therefore no payment mechanism was in place. I find Kennet 
contacting J in these circumstances reasonable. 
J later asked to settle the agreement. Kennet explained Js options and she decided to 
return the equipment to Kennet to sell, which is what happened. It did, however, leave a 
substantial amount still to pay, which J considers unfair. She says the equipment had been 
barely used for six months and was in excellent condition, but it fetched £400 at resale 
against a cost of £3,000 as new. 
This was a hire agreement. J chose the equipment. Kennet then bought it from A and hired it 
to Ms T, for which she agreed to pay it about £120 a month for 36 months and then return 
the equipment. This type of finance is not meant to end early. However, the agreement does 
allow for such an eventuality. In brief, the agreement says Kennet is entitled to a termination 
payment equal to the total payments still due, minus a small discount, less the net proceeds 
of the equipments sale. 
J didnt make a termination payment, so she wasnt entitled to the small discount. J may 
disagree with the resale value, but she hasnt presented any compelling evidence to 
persuade me £400 was an unreasonably low value. And I note by the time she returned the 
equipment is was over a year old and the market - given the wider circumstances - was 
unlikely to be buoyant for the type of equipment. 
Kennet later reduced the outstanding balance by £300 to assist J. It also offered to arrange 
an affordable repayment plan on the outstanding balance  another positive action. 
Considering this, and my findings as set out above, Im satisfied Kennet treated J fairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman