DRN-3481246
The complaint
Mr J has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s decision to 
decline a claim he made for storm damage under his home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J reported damage to his driveway to his insurer LV. Mr J said the damage was caused 
by a storm. He said the heavy rainfall had washed away sand underneath and caused the 
paving blocks to sink.
LV instructed a surveyor to inspect Mr Js driveway. Based on the surveyors findings, LV 
declined Mr Js claim. Although it was accepted that storm conditions occurred at the time of 
the event, LV said the damage wasnt consistent with being caused by a sudden insurable 
event. The surveyor reported indentations and troughs consistent with damage caused by 
vehicles. LV applied an exclusion for damage caused by gradual deterioration or wear and 
tear. 
Mr J pointed out that the surveyor reported that no hardcore had been put underneath the 
driveway  even though Mr J provided photos showing it was when the driveway had been 
installed a couple of years before. 
Our Investigator took this into account  but didnt recommend Mr Js complaint should be 
upheld. She thought Mr J hadnt shown an insured event had occurred. Although storm 
conditions occurred, the information available didnt show this was the main cause of the 
damage. So the Investigator thought LV had reasonably declined the claim by applying the 
above exclusion. 
Mr J didnt agree, In summary he says the video footage he provided shows he couldnt 
have driven a vehicle close enough to where the sunken paving is because there is a wall 
there. He is upset at the suggestion that he doesnt take care of his property. He wants his 
complaint to be reviewed. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy with LV has a very common term which says it wont cover a claim for damage 
for: anything which happened gradually including deterioration or wear and tear, settlement 
or shrinkage.
I agree with Mr J that photos he provided show hardcore on the driveway which he says was 
taken while the driveway was being installed. And I agree that the surveyors comment that 
no hardcore had been installed would seem incorrect in this case. 
However, the surveyor made the following comments as to the condition of the driveway:
the brick driveway which slopes from top to bottom has a small plastic or arco type 
drain installed. Upon closer inspection of the driveway our surveyor noted 
indentations and troughs that are consistent with which is caused by a vehicle or 
vehicles. It is our opinion that the damage caused to the driveway is not as a result of 
the rainwater.
He has also noted that 6 no brick paviours measuring in total area approximately 
0.25m2 and located near the top and to the side of the driveway (i.e. adjacent to the 
curved rendered wall) were indented and depressed, there is also evidence of moss 
growth in between the brick joints, the cause of damage is unknown, but again in our 
opinion is not a result of a one off storm event.
When we look at storm damage claim complaints, we ask three questions:
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have
happened?
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
We're likely to uphold a complaint if the answer to all three questions is 'yes'. However if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to uphold a complaint. 
There is no dispute that storm conditions occurred at the time of the event. However, as the 
Investigator explained, our approach is that even where storm conditions existed, its very 
rare for rainfall alone to cause damage. We expect a property in good maintenance order to 
be able to withstand heavy rainfall. So more often than not, rainfall alone will highlight an 
existing issue.
So based on the surveyors remaining findings, I dont think the damage was consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes  or that storm conditions were the main cause for the 
damage. It follows that I think LV acted reasonably in relying on the opinion of the surveyor 
when deciding to decline Mr Js claim. 
I understand Mr J will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
LV to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman