DRN-3649520
The complaint
Ms A complains that AWP P&C SA mishandled her claim on a home emergency insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AWP, I refer to the above-named company and I include its home 
assistance provider and others insofar as I hold AWP responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from late October 2020, Ms A had a home insurance policy with home 
emergency cover. It was branded with the name of a bank. AWP was the insurer responsible 
for dealing with home emergency claims.
Ms A has shared with us that she was caring for two children with disabilities.
In summer 2021, Ms A had water leaking from a toilet cistern. So she called AWP for help. It 
sent an engineer who stopped the leak.
In late September 2021, Ms A again had water leaking from the toilet cistern. So she again 
called AWP for help. It declined to send an engineer.
Ms A contacted a number of plumbers, but none were able to help. In the end, a good 
neighbour fixed the leak.
Ms A complained to AWP that it shouldve fixed the leak. By a final response dated late 
November 2021, AWP turned down the complaint. 
Ms A brought her complaint to us in mid-January 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
AWP had demonstrated that it declined the claim in line with the policy terms or that AWPs 
actions were reasonable. He recommended that AWP should pay Ms A £150.00 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms A agreed with the investigators opinion.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So the investigator asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWPs final response said that  in September 2021 - Ms A had reported that she couldnt 
see where the leak was coming from. AWP said it only covered leaks that were accessible or 
visible. But AWP hasnt sent us the relevant policy terms.
Ms A has sent us an Insurance Product Information Document. That says that the policy 
covers failure of plumbing or drainage that would result in water damage inside the home. 
The IPID doesnt highlight any term that leaks had to be visible or accessible.
In any event, Ms A has sent us a photograph of water escaping down the outside of the toilet 
cistern. She has also sent us a statement from the good neighbour concluding as follows:
I simply lifted the lid of the cistern and could see that the water level in the cistern 
was too high. It was a simple matter of adjusting the ballcock, once the water level 
was lower the leak stopped. It did not take me long to stop the leak and I did not 
need any materials.
So I find that the leak in September 2021 was visible and accessible. In any event, I consider 
that AWP shouldve visited Ms A again and fixed the leak again.
AWP declined to help  unfairly in my view. So Ms A spent time trying and not succeeding in 
finding a plumber who wasnt too busy to help. She had to put down towels to catch the 
water  and to change them when they went smelly. I accept her statement that she was 
worried about water damaging her home. I find it likely that Ms A suffered inconvenience in 
using the toilet and in taking care of her two children.
Ms A has said she gave the good neighbour some wine and some stout. Ive thought about 
directing AWP to compensate her for the cost of that. But Ive decided against it because I 
think the good neighbour wouldve done it for nothing, and Ms A just wanted to express her 
thanks.
Putting things right
The investigator recommended £150.00 for distress and inconvenience and Ms A accepted 
that. I find that amount of compensation fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AWP 
P&C SA to pay Ms A £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman