DRN-2910382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they hold with Standard 
Life Assurance Limited. They are unhappy that 2019 was the first time Standard Life clearly 
informed them in monetary terms of the charges it had applied to the policy over the 
previous year. Mr and Mrs F consider these charges were hidden from them until that point, 
and as such should be refunded or reinvested in the policy.
What happened
Mr F took out the endowment policy in 1999. At the time it was in his sole name and the 
advice he received to take the policy was from an independent financial adviser (IFA). In 
2002 Mrs F was added to the policy.
At the time of the sale, Standard Life provided Mr Fs IFA with an illustration of future 
benefits. This detailed that deductions were made from the policy for the protection benefits, 
commission and expenses. It didnt detail the charges separately, but it did explain the effect 
on the growth of the policy, based on an estimate of what the charges would be. The key 
features document that went along with the illustration detailed the various deductions that 
would be made. 
Throughout the term of the policy Standard Life sent Mr and Mrs F updates on the policy and 
its expected maturity. These documents didnt specify the amount of the various deductions, 
other than the monthly service charge. However, the figures produced took an estimate of 
what the charges would be over the remaining term into account.
In 2019 Standard Life wrote to Mr and Mrs F detailing the total amount it had deducted from 
the policy for the various deductions. This totalled over £700. Mr and Mrs F complained to 
Standard Life. They said they were unhappy that theyd been paying charges throughout the 
term that had been hidden from them. 
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had been applying charges to 
the policy throughout its term. Nothing had changed other than that the regulator now 
required life companies to communicate an annual summary of the charges in the form of a 
monetary amount.
During the correspondence that followed, Standard Life provided confirmation of the charges 
it had applied to the policy each year, although it couldnt break that down further for most 
years. It also provided a breakdown of the charges for the 2018/19 policy year, an 
explanation of the different charges/deductions. It also pointed out that it had been the 
selling IFAs responsibility to explain the policy to Mr F.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept that Standard Life hadnt done anything wrong. Mr F said the 
only charge he was aware of was the £1 per month service charge and he was also aware 
that not all the premium was invested. He had assumed that sum paid the cost of the 
protection benefits provided by the policy. Mr and Mrs F said they wanted redress for being 
charged without their knowledge and they believed it should be Standard Life that did so. 
They said they were unaware of the charges because Standard Life hadnt told them. 
As Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy with Standard Lifes response, they asked this service 
to consider their complaint. One of our investigators looked at the evidence and concluded 
that Standard Life had provided information at the time of the sale which would have made 
Mr F aware of the various deductions that would be made from the policy. She was also 
satisfied that it was explained the amount of the deductions could change over time and that 
Standard Life hadnt been required to detail the amount of the charges until it did so. She 
didnt consider Standard Life had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said they thought Standard 
Life had a duty of care to make the policy operation transparent. They said that it shouldnt 
have concealed such an important thing, as the deductions directly affect how they would 
view the viability of the policy as their mortgage repayment vehicle.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the documentation Standard Life has produced over the years, I would 
explain to Mr and Mrs F the point Standard Life was attempting to make about the role of the 
IFA in 1999. The IFA was responsible for explaining how the policy worked and ensuring that 
Mr F understood it. That would have included explaining how the premium was used and the 
deductions that would be made to pay for the various expenses associated with the policy. 
So while Standard Life may not have documented each year the deductions that were being 
made from the policy, Mr F should have been aware that they were being deducted.
In addition, as our investigator has explained, the documentation Standard Life produced for 
Mr F detailed that it would be making deductions from the policy to pay for things like the 
cost of the protection benefits and the management of the fund and policy. It was also 
detailed that these costs could change from time to time.  That said, Standard Life made 
assumptions about how much these deductions would be each year and it built that in when 
it worked out what premium needed to be paid for the policy. 
Over time the disclosure requirements financial businesses have had to comply with have 
changed. At the time of the sale of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, the policyholder had to be told 
there would be charges and what they would be for, but there was no requirement for that to 
be put in monetary terms each year until recently. I know that Mr and Mrs F, having seen 
their statement in 2019, believe they should have been given this information in earlier 
years. However, as there was no regulatory requirement for Standard Life to provide this 
information at those times, I cant find it did anything wrong.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 6 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman