DRN-1423620
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) dealt with his 
request to recover money which had mistakenly been sent to the wrong recipient.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr T made a Faster Payment of around £3,800 from his Co-op account. But 
he accidentally entered one digit of the sort code incorrectly, so the money didnt arrive in 
the intended recipients account. Unfortunately, the details entered matched the account 
details of a third party who is unknown to Mr T. So the money was credited to that third 
partys account. 
Mr T realised hed made a mistake within a few days of making the payment. He contacted 
the Co-op straight away and told them what had happened. That same day, the Co-op sent 
a Faster Payment query to the bank which had received the money (the receiving bank) and 
asked them to return the funds. When the receiving bank responded to the Co-op, it said it 
couldnt return the money because there werent enough funds in the recipients account.
The Co-op wrote to Mr T on 8 July 2019 to let him know this. Their letter said that Mr T could 
ask for the name and address of the person who had received the money. It said he could 
make this request in writing and provided both a postal address and an email address. On 
receipt of Mr Ts request, the Co-op would approach the receiving bank to obtain the 
information. The letter went on to say that Mr T would then be able to take legal action 
against the recipient. It provided details of two organisations that might be able to help.
Mr T called the Co-op on 9 July 2019 for an update. At that stage, the Co-ops letter had 
been sent out but Mr T hadnt received it. The advisor he spoke to outlined what the letter 
said and gave Mr T the email address to write to. Mr T sent an email asking the Co-op to 
obtain the account holders details. But the Co-op contacted him to say that the request had 
to be made through the post, not by email. Mr T then put the request in writing, but there was 
a delay in the Co-op dealing with it. 
The Co-op acknowledge that they made mistakes and caused a delay here. They didnt 
request the information from the receiving bank straight away. And, when Mr T called them 
to chase for the information, they wrongly informed him that a letter had already been sent to 
him with the details. In fact, the Co-op didnt request the account holders details until 
September 2019. A name and an overseas address were provided to Mr T in October 2019. 
The Co-op acknowledge that the delay was unacceptable. Theyve apologised for this and 
paid Mr T compensation of £150.
Mr T wasnt happy with the Co-ops response and asked this service to look into the 
complaint. He still hasnt got his money back and says hes struggling financially. He says he 
had to take out a loan at short notice because of this situation. Our investigator thought that 
the Co-op had done enough here and didnt ask them to do any more. But Mr T didnt agree 
and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes not happy with the way the Co-op dealt with the situation and says they told him they 
would refund the money to him and then look to recover it from the third party themselves. 
He queries why the funds couldnt be frozen when the Co-op first contacted the receiving 
bank. And he asks how the recipient can have an overseas address when the sort code 
relates to a bank in England.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a case of a payment being mistakenly credited to an account it wasnt intended for. 
Unfortunately Mr T input one digit wrong when entering the sort code of the business he 
wanted to send the money to. The Co-op transferred the funds to the account number and 
sort code entered by Mr T. I dont think they did anything wrong by sending the funds to that 
account. But what I need to look at here is whether they did enough to try and recover the 
money after Mr T told them of his mistake.
Faster Payments have a procedure in place to help customers who make payments in error. 
The procedure doesnt guarantee a customer in Mr Ts position will get their money back. 
Rather, it sets a timescale for banks to investigate. In straightforward cases where the 
recipient doesnt dispute the return of the funds, the money will be returned within 20 
working days. But the funds cant be returned without the consent of the recipient. This is the 
case even where, as here, the recipient isnt the intended beneficiary of the funds and isnt 
known to the sender. 
As the bank which sent the money, the onus was on the Co-op to act quickly at the outset by 
requesting the return of the funds from the receiving bank. Under the procedure, the Co-op 
had to do this within two working days. Im satisfied they did this. After that, the onus was on 
the receiving bank to investigate. In line with the procedure, Mr T had to be notified of the 
outcome within 20 working days, which he was. The receiving bank didnt return the money 
because there were insufficient funds in the recipients account. At that point, the Co-op had 
to give Mr T clear and accurate information on the options available to him. But their 
obligations under the Faster Payments procedure were quite limited from this point and I find 
that their letter of 8 July 2019 met the requirements.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are also relevant here. They say that the Co-op 
should take reasonable steps to recover the funds for Mr T. And that, on Mr Ts written 
request, they should provide all available relevant information so that he can claim 
repayment of the money.
There isnt a set list of reasonable steps which the Co-op had to take in this situation. But 
Id expect them to follow the Faster Payments procedure, which they did. They contacted the 
receiving bank to request the return of funds on the day Mr T told them of the mistake. Im 
not sure what more they could have done at that stage. I realise Mr T thinks that the funds 
should have been frozen at that point. But I dont find that it was within the Co-ops power to 
do that here.
I dont know what steps the receiving bank took when it received the Co-ops request. And I 
dont have any more information about the third party who received the funds. But Im only 
looking here at the actions of the Co-op. And Im satisfied that the Co-op acted in line with 
the Faster Payments procedure. I dont think they caused any delay in trying to recover the 
money through the banking system.But I do find that the Co-op delayed in obtaining the recipients details for Mr T. Theyve 
acknowledged that they made mistakes in this respect and that the delay was unacceptable. 
Mr T was already in an extremely stressful situation. The delay, and frustration at being 
given the wrong information, only added to that. And Mr T wasnt able to move forward with 
other options without the information about the account holder. So its right that the Co-op 
should pay him some compensation.
I think the amount theyve already paid (£150) is a fair amount to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused here. I dont think the Co-op need to pay any more, because I dont 
find that the delay caused Mr T further loss. It didnt prevent him from recovering his money 
through the banking process because the funds were already unavailable by that stage 
(presumably because the recipient had used them). So, although the Co-ops delay in 
obtaining the account holders details was unhelpful and stressful, I dont think it put him in a 
worse position. He was already facing the prospect of having to recover his money another 
way, most likely with an uncertain timescale.
Mr T says that the Co-op told him they would refund the money to him and pursue the 
recipient themselves. Ive listened to all the available call recordings and I havent heard any 
of the Co-op advisors say that. In a call in June, the advisor explained that the Faster 
Payment query had been sent to the receiving bank and that it would have to be reviewed in 
20 working days, by 9 July. Mr T asked what would happen if the money wasnt refunded by 
then. The advisor said if you havent had that money re-credited by the 9th of July, you call 
the bank and we sort that out for you again, but we have to give them the 20 working day 
timescale for them to refund it
Its not clear what the advisor meant when he said the bank would sort it out. Its possible 
this is the conversation Mr T is referring to as he may have interpreted the advisors 
comments to mean that the Co-op would refund the money if it hadnt come back from the 
receiving bank within 20 working days. But, although the advisors comments were 
somewhat ambiguous, I dont find that he told Mr T that the Co-op would refund the money 
themselves. And thats not something theyre required to do in this situation. So I wouldnt 
expect them to do so here.
I have great sympathy for the situation Mr T finds himself in. But Im only looking here at 
what the Co-op did, not the actions of any third parties. The Co-op did what Id expect them 
to do in this situation. And, although they delayed in actioning Mr Ts request for information, 
I think the compensation theyve already paid is enough to recognise the impact of that. So 
Im not going to ask them to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I think The Co-
operative Bank Plc have already done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman