DRN-3543507
The complaint
Mr C complains about Wise Payments Limited closing his account and not sending him a 
final statement. Also, their delays returning his funds.
What happened
In 2019, Mr C opened a personal multi-currency balance account with Wise. This enabled Mr 
C to store and convert currencies onto his profile so he could upload, send, and receive 
funds.
In 2020, two unknown credits went on to Mr Cs account. Mr C raised these with Wise who 
reversed them. However, when Wise reviewed Mr Cs account, they noticed that Mr C had 
been conducting business transactions on his account and, as this is prohibited, they made 
a decision to close his account.
Mr C is dissatisfied as he contacted Wise to report the suspicious payments and Wise 
returned the money, suspended and closed his account without any consultation.
Mr C complained to our service; however, our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr C remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr C and the following are the reasons for my decision.
Regarding his account closure, whilst I appreciate Mr Cs frustration because he was 
concerned and brought the payment issues to Wises attention, a bank is entitled to close an 
account with a customer, just as a customer may close an account with a bank. However, 
when doing so, it must comply with the terms and conditions of the account.
So, I reviewed Wises terms and conditions together with their grounds for closure and, 
although I understand the upset and impact here, Im satisfied it was a decision Wise were 
entitled to take and their action is correct and reasonable.
This is because there is evidence on file that Mr C received funds from companies which 
trade in cryptocurrencies for goods and services. And Wises terms and conditions clearly 
state that customers cant use personal Wise accounts to receive business payments. Wise 
also say that they dont support transactions from companies involved in the exchange or 
trading of cryptocurrencies. 
Mr Bs transactions exceeded Wises risk tolerance and, from reviewing Wises terms and 
conditions and acceptable use policy, Im also satisfied that Wise were also entitled to make 
a business decision to close Mr Cs account without giving notice.
I looked closely at Wises delay in returning Mr Cs funds and not providing a final statement 
and requested further information. 
I should point out that we arent the regulator of the financial services industry, so this 
service cant instruct a business to alter its policies, procedures or processes when closing 
an account. 
However, from the information I reviewed, I can see that where Wise believe there to be a 
risk and they have grounds to be concerned about account activity, including payments and 
the transactions Mr C queried, their internal policy and procedure is to retain funds for 60 
days and not issue a statement. Considering the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that 
this action was proportionate for the risks Wise identified. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed, when considering the above Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman