DRN-3464253
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was unable to pay his credit card balance with Madison CF UK 
Limited (Madison) for several months and was unable to get through to them.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with Madison that had an outstanding balance. He attempted 
to pay that balance in March 2021, but says he was unable to get through to the business. 
Mr S sent Madison an email asking for it to call him, to which it responded asking that he 
contact its collections department to discuss his repayment. 
Mr S is unhappy that Madison failed to engage with his attempts to pay his balance and 
didnt co-operate with him. He says it failed to give him clear details of how to make payment 
and that he only received generic emails back from them. As a result, he thinks it should pay 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think Madison had acted 
unreasonably as he could see it responded to Mr Ss email in March 2021 asking him to get 
in contact, but it didnt appear that any further attempts to call were made by him. Mr S 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
I appreciate that Mr S requested that Madison contact him when he emailed them in 
March 2021. And while I understand he is unhappy they didnt call him back; they did 
respond to him via email where they provided the details of the collections 
department to contact if he wanted to discuss his balance or make a payment.
Based on the evidence Ive seen from Madisons call history, it doesnt appear that 
any follow up calls were then made by Mr S after they provided him with the number. 
So, I dont consider that Madison failed to engage with him or prevented him from 
being able to make payment in March 2021. 
I understand that Mr S says he had trouble getting through to Madison. But he hasnt 
been able to evidence multiple failed attempts to contact it. The records provided by 
the business indicate that the only contact they had from Mr Ss phone number 
during this time was on 5 March 2021 (before he emailed them asking them to call), 
where the call was disconnected before it reached an agent. It isnt clear why the call 
was disconnected before Mr S was able to speak to an agent, but theres nothing to 
suggest that he wouldnt have been able to get through if he had tried again. Madison 
said it didnt have any issues with its phone lines at the time either.
I can also see that the statements Mr S was sent by Madison each month had a 
section that clearly set out the different ways he could make a payment, which 
included telephone, direct debit, mobile app or through his local bank branch. 
Madison has also set out the various different ways he could pay in response to a 
previous complaint made to it in January 2020. I appreciate that Mr S had been 
suffering from mental health issues. But even though Madison didnt call Mr S back in 
response to his email in March 2021, Im satisfied he ought reasonably to have been 
aware of the various other ways he could have made a payment if he wanted to do 
so at that time. 
Mr S subsequently made a payment in October 2021. Madison confirmed in its final 
response of 22 November 2021 that this cleared his remaining credit card balance 
and that the account is now closed. There was a slight overpayment of £13.19 at this 
point, however, which I can see Madison has since refunded. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded it needs to take any further action.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear about the 
issues he has been having with his mental health. But Im not satisfied that Madison has 
done anything substantially wrong that would warrant a payment of compensation in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman