DRN-3838892
The complaint
Mr G says Great Lakes Insurance SE were unfair in rejecting his insurance claim for damage 
to a sofa.
What happened
Mr G had an insurance policy for his sofa and he says a number of faults developed, which 
he thinks should be covered. Hes unhappy because Great Lakes deemed them to be wear 
and tear, which isnt covered.
Mr G says the appearance of wear and tear is down the length of time it took for a technician 
to come out, in part because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also says the technicians report 
includes things which arent true.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They reviewed the technicians report and 
photos and felt it had been reasonable to say the damage was wear and tear, rather than a 
one off incident.
Mr G didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. Briefly, he maintained that any 
appearance of wear and tear was down to the length of time it took for the sofa to be 
inspected, and in any event it shouldnt be in such a condition based on its age. He also 
enquired whether wed sought expert advice from anyone.
Mr G was also unhappy that the investigators findings were shared with Great Lakes before 
he had the chance to comment on them. Mr G said he had further information to send us but 
despite being given an extension he didnt do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but Im not upholding his complaint. His cover excludes damage 
caused by wear and tear and a technician deemed that to be the cause. Ive seen nothing to 
make me really doubt the technicians report. Thats not to say I havent taken on board what 
Mr G has said, but insurers are entitled to rely on what theyre told by their contractors.
Mr G has asked whether we appointed someone with expert knowledge, but thats not for us 
to do. We will look at everything weve been provided and reach what we consider to be a 
fair and reasonable conclusion. Ultimately, Great Lakes contractor said the issue was one of 
wear and tear  and Great Lakes is entitled to rely upon that. Mr G could have arranged a 
counter report if hed wanted to, but I cant see that he has.
And turning to our sharing of the investigators findings with both parties at the same time, 
we are required to do that. It doesnt mean either party has an advantage over the other, if 
anything it means we are being fair. It also doesnt preclude an Ombudsman from reaching a 
different conclusion from an investigator.
But, overall, I think Great Lakes was entitled to rely on their contractors report when 
assessing the claim. I acknowledge that Mr G found this whole matter to be frustrating but I 
havent seen anything to make me think they need to do any more for him.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman