DRN-2819138
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plc didnt set up a direct debit on her account.
What happened
Mrs T was a customer of a third party and wanted to pay for the service the third party
company provided her by direct debit. Mrs T said the third party company sent Santander a
direct debit instruction on 25 December 2017 but Santander didnt set up the direct debit.
Mrs T contacted Santander in January 2018 and asked Santander why they hadnt set up
the direct debit. Santander told Mrs T that they were unable to locate the company
instruction and said she should speak to the third party directly and ensure they have Mrs
Ts correct details so the direct debit could be set up. Santander also told her that sometimes
a direct debit mandate may not appear on her account until it is due to debit.
Santander wrote to Mrs T in February 2018 and explained that direct debits are set up
electronically using a system called Automated Direct Debit Instruction Service (AUDDIS).
They explained that this would allow a company to set up a direct debit without sending
paper instructions to them. Santander also said because of AUDDIS, they would have no
control over when a direct debit is placed on an account.
The direct debit was created on Santanders system on 3 February 2018. Mrs T was not
satisfied that the original direct debit was not set up. She asked Santander for their final
response so she could refer her complaint to our service. Mrs T says that she thinks there
may have been an issue with Santanders computer systems for not setting up the direct
debit request in a timely manner.
Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. She said Santander refused to investigate why
the direct debit wasnt set up when the third party company sent the direct debit instruction.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. The investigator said that Santander could
only action a request when its received and Santanders systems proved that the direct
debit was in place in February 2018.
Mrs T asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that although Santander
set the direct debit up in February this wasnt evidence that Santander hadnt received the
request sent in December 2017. Mrs T also raised concerns about the investigation (or lack
of it) from Santander and how her complaint was handled.
Before passing the complaint onto an Ombudsman, the investigator explained to Mrs T that
how a company handles a complaint is outside of our jurisdiction so we can only look at the
merits of Mrs Ts complaint and not how Santander handled her complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T has made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive considered
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
As our investigator explained to Mrs T, complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated
activity and as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Santander have
investigated her complaint dont come under my powers to consider. So Ill just be looking at
the merits of her complaint.
Before I reached a decision on this case, I asked both parties for some further information
which would enable me to make a decision. I asked Mrs T if she had a copy of the email the
third party sent her regarding the direct debit and I asked Santander how the direct debit was
set up.
Im satisfied that the direct debit was set up by AUDDIS as opposed to the third party
sending a paper instruction and that Santander arent responsible for any errors in setting up
the original direct debit and Ill explain why. Mrs T was sent an email from the third party on
24 December 2017 at 23:40. The email states that the third party had submitted the direct
debit as opposed to sending Santander a direct debit request. The email also says If your
details are correct, you don't need to do anything and we'll process your Direct Debit as
normal. So, while Mrs T has said Santander failed to set up her direct debit on the first
attempt its the third party that is responsible for processing Mrs Ts direct debit by AUDDIS
and not Santander.
Santander have confirmed that the direct debit from the third party was set up by the
AUDDIS method. This means that Santander had no control over when a direct debit was
placed on an account. They also added that theyve found no evidence of any other requests
or attempts to set up the mandate previously, either made to themselves or from the third
party. So, Im not persuaded that Santander have made any back-office errors here and I
have seen no direct evidence to suggest that Santanders IT systems havent worked as
they shouldve done.
In order to uphold the complaint, I would need to see evidence that Santander have made an
error. But Im satisfied for the reasons Ive given that Santander havent made an error. So, it
follows I wont be asking them to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Santander didnt provide any further comments. Mrs T responded to my provisional 
decision. In summary she said she had provided evidence that the direct debit was 
submitted on 24 December (2017). She added that if Santander have no record of this in 
their system then the fault must lie with AUDDIS, therefore Santander should still be 
responsible for setting up the direct debit as they use the AUDDIS system. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs T has said regarding that the error could lie with AUDDIS. So I 
asked Santander to contact AUDDIS to see if the third party had actually submitted a direct 
debit through AUDDIS. 
AUDDIS searched their system from 23 December 2017 (the day before the third party had 
said theyd submitted the direct debit) to 22 January 2018 with Mrs Ts Santander sort code and account number. The system showed that the third party did not submit a direct debit 
request during this timeframe.
Im persuaded that it was the third partys responsibility to set up Mrs Ts direct debit 
correctly. I say this as the email she received from them says if your details are correct, you 
don't need to do anything and we'll process your Direct Debit as normal. So while Mrs T 
believes that her email from the third party is evidence the third party submitted the direct 
debit when they said they did, Im persuaded the wording of well process your Direct Debit 
as normal may suggest that the direct debit hadnt been processed at the point the email 
was sent to Mrs T.
So while the third party may have set up the direct debit in their systems, they dont appear 
to have submitted the request to AUDDIS at the time they sent Mrs T the email. And as 
AUDDIS is automated it would rely on the third party to ensure the correct details were 
entered in to AUDDIS and submitted. In my provisional decision I said in order to uphold the 
complaint I would need to see evidence that Santander have made an error and Im satisfied 
for the reasons Ive already given that they havent made an error here.
In summary, Mrs Ts response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs T will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope she understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman