DRN-3831017
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very acted unfairly 
when dealing with her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) in respect of a faulty fridge freezer
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs D ordered a fridge freezer from Shop Direct and the item was paid for 
via a credit agreement also supplied by Shop Direct. 
In July 2021 Mrs D reported to Shop Direct that the fridge freezer had self-combusted, and a 
fire had occurred in the inside of the appliance. Shop Direct advised Mrs D to contact the 
manufacturer as this was a potential safety issue. The manufacturer arranged for the 
appliance to be collected and inspected. It offered Mrs D a full reimbursement for the cost of 
the fridge freezer and sent her a cheque for that amount.
Mrs D decided not to cash the cheque she received from the manufacturer because the 
letter that accompanied it stated this payment was in full and final settlement of the matter, 
but without any acceptance of any legal liability. Mrs D says she didnt want to be unable to 
pursue things with the manufacturer over the appliance.
Mrs D also says she was concerned that the manufacturer wouldnt return the appliance nor 
provide a report as to what had been found when it had been inspected.
Mrs D requested that the manufacturer paid compensation to her for the food that had been 
lost as a result of the fire. She estimated this loss at £259.14 and the manufacturer offered 
her £200 for the loss of the food. Mrs D says she declined this as it didnt match the cost of 
the food that had been spoiled.
Mrs D then made a claim to Shop Direct for it to reimburse her both the cost of the fridge 
freezer and for the loss of the food. Shop Direct declined her claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that Mrs D had already been offered the full 
reimbursement of the cost of the appliance by the manufacturer. It also said it thought the 
compensation offer made by the manufacturer for the food had been fair. It said Mrs D 
wasnt entitled to a refund from itself having received one from the manufacturer.
Mrs D was unhappy at Shop Directs response and complained to this service. She said she 
wanted Shop Direct to reimburse her for the fridge freezer and the lost food so that she 
would be able to pursue matters with the manufacturer. She said she thought it would be 
irresponsible to accept the cheque from the manufacturer and then not be able to take things 
further.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She said that 
although she was satisfied that the fridge freezer had been faulty that Shop Direct had acted 
fairly in its handling of her claim under Section 75. Our investigator said this was because 
Mrs D had been refunded by the manufacturer and so had been returned to the position she 
would have been had the fault not occurred. She also said that the offer of £200 
compensation for the damaged food stuffs by the manufacturer had been fair since Mrs D 
was only able to estimate those costs. 
Our investigator also said that while the contractual agreement was with Shop Direct the 
remedy it would have offered would have been the same as that offered by the 
manufacturer. And Shop Direct would have likely recovered whatever settlement it made 
back from the manufacturer eventually. And if the manufacturer hadnt made the refund or 
offer - then she would have recommended that Shop Direct refund the cost of the product 
and cover the damaged food items. But since the manufacturer had already made a refund 
and offer for the food items, she said she couldnt ask Shop Direct to make the same refund 
or offer.
In respect of the letter sent with the cheque by the manufacturer, our investigator said this 
didnt set out any conditions on Mrs D accepting that settlement. She said this meant Mrs D 
remained free to take further action should she choose to do so if she had banked that 
cheque.
Mrs D disagreed with the view of our investigator and said the use of the term full and final 
settlement meant she wasnt able to pursue things with the manufacturer and so it would be 
fair for Shop Direct to settle her claim.
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain circumstances, equal right to claim a refund 
against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. Here I dont think its disputed 
that the fridge freezer was faulty and that there had been a breach of contract. Nor is it 
disputed that Mrs D met the requirements of a section 75 claim. So, my role is to decide 
whether Shop Direct has handled Mrs Ds claim fairly and reasonably.
Ive seen that when Mrs D made her claim to Shop Direct it contacted the manufacturer 
and was informed that it had sent Mrs D a cheque for the full cost of the fridge freezer 
and that it had also offered her £200 compensation for the consequential loss of the food. 
I would expect Shop Direct to have taken this action.
Ive looked at the letter sent to Mrs D by the manufacturer which contained the cheque for 
the fridge freezer. While I appreciate it sets out that the payment is made in full and final 
settlement, I dont think this restricts Mrs D from accepting the reimbursement and then 
taking further action against them should she choose to do so. This is because that letter 
doesnt set out any conditions that would apply should Mrs D bank the cheque. If this 
offer was made with any restrictions such as Mrs D couldnt take any other action, then it 
would need to be clear that was the intention behind the payment. I disagree with Mrs Ds 
view of this letter.
Mr D says she didnt contact the manufacturer to check what the impact would be if she 
cashed the cheque it had sent her as the letter said it was in full settlement. She says this 
meant her complaint would be closed and she hadnt banked the cheque because she 
didnt consider her case to be concluded. Ms D says that the contract was with Shop 
Direct, and she doesnt believe that either the manufacturer or Shop Direct has followed the correct process as set by legislation. 
But I think it would have been reasonable for Ms D to check whether by accepting this 
cheque she would have been prevented from taking any other action. As set out above, I 
dont agree with her view that by accepting the reimbursement from the manufacturer she 
would have been stopped from taking any other legal action against them should she 
want to do so.
I appreciate Ms D believes that Shop Direct hasnt followed the correct process as set out 
by the legislation, but I havent seen any evidence of that. I think that as it was jointly 
liable with the manufacturer for the faulty fridge freezer then Shop Direct was entitled to 
take into account that the manufacturer had reimbursed in full the cost of the appliance 
and also offered compensation for the lost food when it considered whether it needed to 
make any settlement to Mrs D for her claim. 
The remedy for the faulty appliance would be a refund and this had been offered to Mrs 
D. I wouldnt expect Shop Direct to step in and make an identical offer to Mrs D when the 
manufacturer was prepared to provide this.
Mrs D has raised consequential loss for the food that had been spoiled following the fire 
in the fridge freezer. Mrs D wasnt able to provide receipts for the items, but she was able 
to provide photos of the items that had to be thrown away and gave an estimate of 
£259.14 as to the value. The manufacturer offered £200 as compensation which Mrs D 
declined as being too low. Shop Direct has said it wouldnt have offered a higher sum to 
cover this loss.
While I appreciate why Mrs D couldnt provide receipts for all the items and only an 
estimate, I dont think the offer made by the manufacturer was substantially less than the 
amount she had estimated, and I dont think it wasnt unfair. I also think, looking at the 
photos, that as some of the items had been opened/used that this would have had some 
impact on the value of those spoiled food items. So, I think Shop Direct acted fairly and 
reasonably in taking into account the offer by the manufacturer. It has been clear it would 
have paid less to Ms D had it settled her consequential loss claim.
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I think Shop Direct 
dealt with Mrs Ds Section 75 claim fairly. The manufacturer had accepted the fridge 
freezer was faulty and had provided reimbursement of the full cost together with an offer 
for £200 for the consequential loss. As this is the settlement that I would expect Mrs D to 
receive in these circumstances, Im not asking Shop Direct to make this settlement in the 
place of the manufacturer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman