DRN-3416928
Complaint
Mr A has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in 2019. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr A alleges that the installer misled Mr A into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Initially, Mr As complaint was upheld in his favour and Ikano made an offer to settle the 
complaint. But Mr A (through his representatives) declined this offer as he felt that Ikano had 
not calculated redress in line with our established approach to these cases. Ikano reviewed 
the file again and, at this time, withdrew its offer, saying having had a closer look at the 
documents, it felt the documents had made it clear the panels would not be self-funding and 
therefore it didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr As complaint was reconsidered by one of our adjudicators based on Ikanos 
submissions. Based on the documents pointed out by Ikano, he agreed with Ikano and said 
that the documents from the time of sale (which Mr A signed) had made it clear that the 
benefits of the solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the 
system would not be immediately self-funding in the way Mr A says he was led to believe. 
So, the adjudicator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr A disagreed. He re-iterated (through his representatives) that he was led to believe that 
he would incur no additional financial outgoings due to the purchase of the panels as they 
would be self-funding. He also felt that, as Ikano initially agreed that a misrepresentation had 
taken place, it was unfair that it had withdrawn its offer, when Ikano ought to be have simply 
revised its offer to bring it in line with our established approach to redress in these types of 
cases.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr A was provided with the sales documents, as his representatives have 
sent us a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has 
signed the document. I would add that these documents are part of the installers own sales 
pack so I think its likely that this would have been used during the sales meeting, and the 
information contained within it, would have been part of the discussions the installer had with 
Mr A.
There is a document that sets out the estimated returns Mr A can expect from his solar panel 
system. It says the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system was 
between £200-£260 (approx.). On the same page, the cash price of the solar panel system 
is included which was £8,500. It also notes that Mr A would be taking out finance to pay for 
the system. 
Neither of these amounts (the estimated benefit nor the cash price) are hidden away in small 
print, but are, in my view clearly visible on the one page of this document. And Mr A has 
signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very least, seen this 
comparison when he signed the document. 
I think the numbers are clear enough that even on a quick glimpse, Mr A ought to have 
recognised that yearly returns of around £200 was not going to cover the cost of a system 
priced at £8,500 (and thats without the finance cost). Mr A took out a 10-year loan to fund 
the purchase of the solar panels. I think its apparent that the estimated benefit of between 
£200 to £260 yearly, would not amount to anywhere near the purchase price in 10 years.
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding in the way he now says he was told they would be. 
If Mr A had been told something different, on being asked to sign this document, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr As 
understanding, at that time. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year benefit 
Mr A would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not be 
immediately self-funding. Mr A then went on to take out finance to fund the purchase of the 
solar panel system, further increasing his cost, as he agreed to pay not only the cash price 
of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. As it was clear the 
benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash price of the solar 
panels,  I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit provided by the system, 
would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments which included interest on 
top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr As testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
I understand Mr A must be frustrated that he initially thought his complaint would be upheld 
but Ikano later withdrew its offer. However, this offer was declined and has since been 
withdrawn. And, as I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support Mr As claim that a 
misrepresentation took place, I cannot compel Ikano to reinstate an offer to settle this case. I 
do however appreciate this is likely to have been disappointing for Mr A and Im sorry we 
cant do any more for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman