DRN-2268919
The complaint
In summary Mr G is unhappy with how Acromas Insurance Company Limited has handled 
his car insurance claim. In particular he has concerns about information given to him by it, 
and the garage it appointed to carry out the repairs to his car.
What happened
Mr Gs car was involved in an accident. The garage appointed by Acromas to carry out an 
assessment of the damage, told him that the car could be repaired. It later told him that it 
was beyond economical repair.
Mr G was subsequently told by Acromas loss adjuster that he could take the car, and have it 
repaired. Mr G has said that as some time had passed and the car was in a storage facility a 
significant car journey from his home, he decided to accept the cash offer of settlement from 
Acromas.
Mr G later became aware that the car had been repaired and sold at auction. Due to the 
incorrect information he had been given, he thought he had been put in a position where he 
had to buy a new car when he would have preferred to have had the car repaired.
Mr Gs concerns were looked into by Acromas. It upheld his complaint and acknowledged 
that he had been given incorrect information. It offered him £150 for the inconvenience he 
had been caused.
Mr Gs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She initially explained why she 
thought the £150 offered by Acromas was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G didnt agree and provided evidence in support of his concerns to the investigator, who 
agreed to review the case again. She then wrote to Acromas explaining why she didnt now 
think it had acted fairly, and why she thought Mr G had been given misleading information.
Mr G didnt agree with the compensation figure proposed by the investigator and provided a 
statement summarising why he was pursuing his complaint further. As a result, the case has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
My final decision will focus on the points that I think are the most important and relevant in 
order for me to decide whether Acromas has done anything wrong. So, I wont necessarily 
address every point that the parties may think is important to them. But I want to reassure 
Acromas and Mr G that I have considered and thought about everything they have provided.
Im satisfied that at several points during the claims process Mr G was given incorrect 
information. During the initial call when Mr G contacted Acromas to report the accident, he 
clearly explained that the driver of the other vehicle was uninsured. So, Mr G was incorrectly 
passed through to a claims handling agency, when it should have been apparent that this 
was an inappropriate referral; as that firm didnt take on claims involving uninsured drivers. 
And I accept that this led to Mr G spending unnecessary time on the phone. 
But I think the main point where Mr G was given incorrect information was after the damage 
to his car was assessed. And this appears to be his main concern as well. 
Its clear to me having listened to the various calls provided, that Mr G experienced a 
significant degree of frustration with the conflicting information he was given about whether 
his car could be repaired or not. And its apparent to me that he was clearly dissatisfied with 
the customer service he received from Acromas in respect of his claim. 
It comes across to me in the calls, that Mr G was particularly irritated by what he says he 
was told by an employee of the garage where the car was sent to be repaired; that the car 
was a write off. I dont have any direct evidence of what he was told by the garage.
 
But I do think some of his frustrations are justified. I say this because in one of the calls with 
a claims representative of Acromas, Mr G was told that his car had been assessed as a 
category B write off which meant it couldnt be repaired. However, in a subsequent call with 
a firm instructed by Acromas to negotiate a settlement figure with Mr G, he was told that the 
car was a category N write off but could be repaired. So, Im satisfied he was given 
conflicting information.
Mr G has argued that the conflicting information he was given led him to lose the opportunity 
to purchase the car at a scrap value and have it repaired himself. I dont agree with that 
assessment. 
I say this because in the calls with the loss assessor, Mr Gs options were in my opinion 
clearly explained. He was given a value for the car which he says he thought was fair. And 
he was also given the option to take the car at a scrap value and get it repaired himself. He 
was given a figure for the scrap value. 
In one of the calls I can hear Mr G saying he didnt want the hassle of getting the car 
repaired. So, taking all of this into account Im satisfied that Mr G was provided with options 
to keep the car and get it repaired, or take a cash settlement. And Im not therefore 
persuaded that he was disadvantaged by the conflicting information he was given. 
I do accept that Mr G found the claims process frustrating and that this caused him some 
inconvenience. But there is always some inconvenience caused in pursuing a claim of this 
nature and a complaint. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained I do accept that there have been some 
shortcomings on the part of Acromas in the way it handled Mr Gs claim, and in the 
information,  it gave him. And taking all of this into account, I think the £300 suggested by 
our investigator is fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Mr G has 
experienced
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold in part Mr Gs complaint about  
Acromas Insurance Company Limited. And if Mr G accepts my decision, I direct Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G £300 for the inconvenience hes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman