DRN-2901359
The complaint
Mr B has complained TransferWise Ltd wont refund him for multiple transactions he says he 
didnt make.
What happened
On 8 January 2020, Mr B submitted disputes for 39 gambling transactions between 14 
November 2019 and 3 January 2020. Mr B says a similar event occurred on his third-party 
bank account where payments were made to gambling merchants. Mr B told us that the 
third-party bank fully refunded him.
TransferWise says it believes Mr B authorised the disputed transactions, which is why its 
held him liable for them. It also says it closed his accounts in line with the terms and
conditions of the account.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary she said she was persuaded Mr B 
authorised the transactions because:
Theres no point of compromise for the card details, the two devices used for the 
transactions or Mr Bs TransferWise account login details.
The spending on the account doesnt match a typical fraud pattern.
Mr Bs actions havent presented as those of a genuine victim of fraud.
Mr B did not accept the investigators findings. In summary he said:
The sites are illegal gambling websites with an offshore identity.
He is not blaming TransferWise at all and he doesnt hold TransferWise liable at all.
He only wants TransferWise to start an arbitrary process against those illegal 
gambling websites because his other bank did, and he won his money back. 
TransferWise did do this for one transaction, so why cant they do the same for the 
others.
He would like an explanation of why it closed his accounts.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator broadly for the same 
reasons. 
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 29 June 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Bs testimony. Im aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr B has presented to us, but I have read 
all of his submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but instead Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of his complaint.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant rules here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. So 
when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them. 
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TransferWise and Mr B have told us. Having carefully considered everything that 
both sides have said and provided, I dont think its unreasonable for TransferWise to 
conclude that Mr B authorised the transactions he disputes. Ive explained why below:
In this case, TransferWise has been able to provide evidence that the correct card details 
were used to authenticate all the payments. A second authentication method was used for 
35 of the payments. TransferWise said that a customer can decline a payment through this 
second authentication method, if they receive a push notification for a payment they dont 
recognise. The four transactions that were completed without a second authentication 
method still required knowledge of Mr Bs card details. TransferWise provided us with the 
electronic records which show the transactions were approved via the TransferWise account 
using Mr Bs genuine devices and login details.
Based on this information, Im satisfied that the payments from Mr Bs account were
authenticated. As Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated, I then need to 
determine whether Mr B consented to the payments being made.
For me to consider that these transactions were completed by a third party, it would mean 
the individual needed to know Mr Bs card details in order to make the card payments to
the merchants. They would also need to gain access to either Mr Bs mobile phone and 
laptop, both of which were password protected. Having accessed either of these devices, the 
third party would have needed to know Mr Bs TransferWise login details to successfully
authorise the payments.
Mr B told us his card has never been out of his possession, and he doesnt share these 
details with anyone. He lives alone, and no one else has access to either his mobile phone 
or laptop. Hes said that no one knows the passwords to access these devices. Hes also 
explained that no one else knows his login details for his TransferWise account and that no
individual would be able to access his account other than him.
Even if I only rely on what Mr B has directly told us, he hasnt provided us with any plausible 
scenario whereby someone else, either known or unknown to him, couldve gained access to 
his card, mobile phone or laptop to make the payments.
There are a number of other points which lead me to conclude it is more likely than not Mr B 
authorised these transactions.The pattern of the payments is inconsistent with that of an unknown fraudster with full 
access to Mr Bs banking. 
There are large gaps, between disputed payments. More commonly a fraudster will 
try to take as much as they can, as quickly as possible, before they are discovered 
as any delay risks their access being blocked.
The transactions were consistent with other (originally) undisputed activity on his 
account.
Large payments are often transferred in from Mr Bs other account with TransferWise 
immediately before the disputed transactions
Mr B said his computer had been hacked at the end of November 2019 but no longer 
has any evidence available to show this was the case. If he previously had evidence 
that his computer had been hacked, I find it strange he has not kept hold of this in 
support of his claim.
Mr B also explained that he was in hospital for a few months from 9 October 2019 
when the disputed transactions occurred. So he says he didnt notice the 
transactions until 8 January 2020 when he reported the matter to TransferWise. 
However, Mr B was able to report a disputed transaction on his third-party bank 
account to the police on 5 December 2019, as well as make a number of undisputed 
transactions on the account during this period. This suggests that he wasnt 
incapable of making these transactions himself or logging in to his account due to 
being hospitalised.
 
Mr B didnt report the 39 disputed transactions from his TransferWise account to the 
police. But he reported a transaction on his third-party bank account on 5 December 
2019. I find it strange he didnt contact the police about the fraud in this case at the 
same time.
Mr B says he didnt check his TransferWise account. However, I think its unlikely that 
he wouldnt log in to his TransferWise accounts for a month, especially if he 
suspected his computer had been hacked and had had issues with his third-party 
bank account.
So, in reviewing all the evidence I think its more likely than not Mr B made the transactions 
himself and it follows that I think Mr B authorised these payments. It would not be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask TransferWise to do anything further as I dont believe Mr B has 
been a victim of fraud.
Ive also thought about whether TransferWise closed Mr Bs account fairly, and Im satisfied 
it did. TransferWise are regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet its legal and 
regulatory obligations. It is also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be 
due to a number of reasons  and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just 
the same as if Mr B decided to stop banking with TransferWise, he wouldnt have to tell them 
why. 
Whilst TransferWise are entitled to close a customers account  it must do so in line with the 
Terms and Conditions. Ive reviewed the Terms and Conditions and Im satisfied that 
TransferWise acted fairly when closing Mr Bs account without notice  so I cant say it acted unreasonably. Ive seen nothing to suggest TransferWise has made an unfair decision. So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything differently.
I appreciate Mr B says his other bank have refunded a transaction he disputed with it but 
that doesnt mean TransferWise should do the same.
I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about whats happened, so I realise Mr B will be 
disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
TransferWise has acted unreasonably. So, Im not going to ask TransferWise to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman