DRN-1562987
The complaint
Mr G complains that Home Retail Services Group Limited trading as Argos Financial Services (AFS) 
charged him deferred interest on a Buy Now Pay Later Plan (BNPL) which he didnt understand he 
would be charged. He is happy to pay interest but only from  5 May 2091 to 27 June 2019  the date 
he believed he should be charged interest from, until he paid off the balance in full.
What happened
Mr G says in April 2018 he bought items costing £ 1,292.87 using his AFS store card. He says this 
was on a BNPL plan. He says he asked what would happen if he didnt pay off the outstanding 
balance after 12 months  and says he was told he would be charged interest after the 12-month 
period ended. He didnt understand  if he didnt pay off the balance in full, he would be charged 
deferred interest from the date of purchase.
He says the agreement he signed referred to a Zero Interest Option Plan which stated that interest 
wouldnt be back dated. He said he found the information from AFS confusing particularly as he has 
various health issues. 
AFS said it had correctly applied the terms and conditions of the BNPL plan. It said details of this plan 
were noted on statements sent to Mr G. The final statement (April 2019) sent before the BNPL was 
due to end flagged up Mr G would need to take action as the plan was ending and it included a letter 
with his options.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found that AFS had followed the terms of the account 
correctly.
AFS accepted this view but Mr G didnt. He reiterated he had been told no interest would be payable 
until after 12 months  and that he found the information from AFS confusing, for example he now 
understood the Zero Interest Option was no longer on offer. He also he had been told interest charges 
would be refunded and put on hold, but this didnt happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels strongly about his complaint . I do understand that, and I have also taken note of the 
information he has shared with us on his medical condition.
I have looked very carefully at the information on the BNPL plan Mr G took out and subsequent 
information sent to him by AFS. I cant really comment on what he was told at the point of sale as I 
have no evidence to support what he was told in store.
I can understand why Mr G might have found the agreement he signed confusing. It listed a range of 
payment plans and didnt specify which one Mr G had agreed to . However, each plan was clearly 
titled, and Mr G has consistently said he took out a BNPL plan, so I think he did understand which 
plan he took out. The details on the agreement for that plan clearly state that if the plan isnt paid off in 
full by the end of the agreement interest in full will be charged from the date of purchase.
That document also lists the Zero Interest Plan Option   that Mr G has referred to . I understand that 
is no longer on offer, but I dont think that is relevant here. I am persuaded from what Mr G has told us 
that he knew he was taking out a BNPL plan, so the Zero Interest Option didnt  apply to him.
I have considered the other information that Mr G would have had. Mr G says he didnt have access 
to online statements . I understand access was blocked due to an incorrect password being used. But 
as I understand it AFS sent Mr G paper statements. And as these were correctly addressed, I think Mr 
G should have got these. 
As Mr G has said the statements showed nothing to pay which was correct initially since no interest 
was initially due. The final statement (April 2019)sent before Mr Gs plan was due to end flagged the 
plan was due to end and that Mr G would need to act about this. It enclosed a letter explaining the 
options and the fact that interest would be back dated to the date of purchase if the balance wasnt 
paid off in full.
From what I have seen I think AFS provided enough information  for Mr G to know that the plan would 
incur interest backdated to the date of purchase if he didnt pay the balance on full by the due date.
I appreciate that wasnt Mr Gs understanding and I have also carefully considered Mr Gs personal 
situation. It seems Mr G does have support to available to him. So, if he had any concerns over the 
plan, he did have people he could discuss this with.
I dont feel I can say that AFS has done anything wrong. So, I dont think I can reasonably expect it to 
waive some of the interest Mr G accrued as he would like. I understand Mr G has paid off the balance 
in full. Had he not done so I would have asked AFS to work with him to come up with a suitable 
repayment plan which I think would have been a reasonable action to expect AFS to do.
Finally, Mr G has said AFS agreed it would put his interest charges on hold doing its  complaint 
process but did do so. And hasnt refunded interest payments due to him in full.  As I understand it 
AFS explained it couldnt freeze the interest on the account during the complaint process but would 
refund fees when charged.
In its final response letter AFS apologised that this didnt happen. It corrected this by refunding £26.52 
of interest applied to the account on 7 July 2019 along with £9.78 interest charged on 7 August 2019. 
A late payment fee of £12 charged on 7 September 2019 wasnt refunded as this was after AFS 
ended its own internal complaint process by issuing it final response letter. 
The refunds AFS made were gestures of goodwill. As I havent found it has done anything wrong, I 
dont feel I can reasonably ask it to refund the £12 late payment fee Mr G incurred after AFSs 
complaint process ended .
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman