DRN-3070151
The complaint
Mr M complained about the standard work of work and level of customer service provided by 
Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Ms front door was getting stuck, so he made a claim to IPA under his home emergency 
policy. Mr M said IPAs engineer didnt turn up for the first appointment. 
Mr M said IPAs engineer attended the second appointment, but he was unhappy as IPA 
only repaired the front door by installing a temporary locking mechanism. Mr M complained 
to IPA. He said the door wasnt secure and Mr M said IPAs engineer drilled a hole in the 
door without asking his permission. Following the temporary repair completed by IPAs 
engineer, Mr M paid his local locksmith £130 for completing a permanent repair to the door 
mechanism.
IPA said Mr M cancelled the first appointment and said on the second appointment it fitted 
an overnight locking mechanism after removing the damaged one. It said it advised Mr M 
that a permanent repair wasnt covered under his policy. Mr M said after IPAs temporary 
repair, the door wasnt secure. IPA responded: I should advise that your policy covers for 
emergency repairs only and as the engineer fitted a temporary locking mechanism to allow 
you to open and secure the front door, the emergency was resolved.
IPA said to Mr M I understand that the engineer did not ask your permission to remove the 
parts and drill new holes to fit the overnight locking mechanism however, the engineer was 
instructed to deal with the emergency that you reported and your policy states: when we 
make a repair we will leave your home safe and habitable but we will not be responsible for 
reinstating it to its original condition, although you may find that this is covered under your
buildings insurance. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think IPA had done anything wrong. 
He said the work was carried out in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and no 
missed deadlines were identified. Mr M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, I wont be upholding this complaint as I think IPA has acted in line with its 
terms and conditions. Ill explain in more detail why I think this.
Mr M said his first appointment was missed. However, IPA said [Mr M] said that an engineer 
did not attend within 2 hours as advised on 1 June however, I should advise that [we] only 
advised [our contractor] would call you within 2 hours to book an appointment and our 
records show that they contacted you at 12:48pm and were due to attend in the evening.
I have listened to the call and it supports what IPA said. I have also checked the claim 
records and it shows Mr M cancelled the first appointment with the engineer later that day as 
he had work commitments. So, I think its fair IPA didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint, 
as Mr M cancelled the appointment before IPAs engineer had the opportunity to visit.
Mr M was unhappy that only a temporary repair was made to his locking mechanism. IPA 
said that a temporary repair met the terms and conditions of the policy as Ive outlined in the 
What happened section above. IPA said it left Mr Ms home safe and habitable. I havent 
seen any evidence to show IPA didnt do this, so I dont think the standard of IPAs work is 
unreasonable. There is no evidence to suggest IPA hasnt met the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
Mr M said IPAs engineer only used a temporary mechanism in the door. Home emergency 
insurance is a type of insurance designed to provide an emergency response to specific, 
sudden and unforeseen emergency situations that may arise in the home. A home 
emergency policy doesnt necessarily provide a permanent fix, its purpose is to bring an end 
to the emergency, which in this case was to make the door serviceable. I can see from the 
claim notes the door was lockable after the temporary repair. I have checked the terms and 
conditions of the policy to see whether there is any specific requirement on IPA to use 
specific parts in its repairs. The policy says:
Availability of parts is an important factor in providing emergency repairs. If our engineer 
does not carry the spare parts needed on the day of your appointment, we will do all we 
reasonably can to find and install parts from our approved suppliers we may not replace 
parts on a like for like basis but will provide an alternative suitable for containing the 
emergency.
Mr M hasnt said the door wasnt working after it was repaired, he was only unhappy about 
the parts used for the repair as he didnt think it provided a long-term secure solution. Given 
the terms and conditions are clear the part replaced doesnt have to be on a like for like 
basis. I dont think IPA has done anything wrong here, I dont think its reasonable to expect 
its engineers to carry every type of spare part on its van. It used a part that it did have which 
enabled it to provide a temporary repair and in doing so end the emergency. I think this is 
reasonable and meets the needs of the terms and conditions.
IPA said, I understand that the engineer did not ask your permission to remove the parts 
and drill new holes to fit the overnight locking mechanism however, the engineer was 
instructed to deal with the emergency that you reported.  I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest IPAs engineer damaged the door, it did the necessary work to stop the emergency. 
So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Finally, Mr M asked IPA to refund the £130 hed paid his own contractor to make the 
permanent repair. IPA said the policy didnt cover this. I agree, the policy doesnt cover 
further repairs, only the emergency repair, so Mr M could possibly recover this through his 
buildings insurance, although he should check the level of excess he has on the policy first.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Inter Partner Assistance 
SA to do anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman