DRN-3582790
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Futures Assured Ltd to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Hs employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr H was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought 
advice. Mr H contacted Futures Assured following an introduction by another firm. Mr H met 
with Futures Assured in October 2017 and it completed a fact-find to gather information 
about his circumstances and objectives. Futures Assured also carried out an assessment of
Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderate  a rating of 5 on a scale of 1-8.
In November 2017, Futures Assured advised Mr H to transfer his BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a managed fund, which Futures Assured said 
matched Mr Hs attitude to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that a transfer away from the BSPS would allay Mr Hs fears about 
the future funding of the BSPS2 and entering the PPF. It also said it would provide Mr H with 
flexibility in when and how he took his pension benefits; provide greater death benefits; and 
provide the potential for a larger tax-free lump sum, which would make Mr Hs retirement 
planning more tax efficient.
Mr H accepted the advice and in March 2018 around £554,000 was transferred to Mr Hs 
new personal pension.
Mr H later complained to Futures Assured about the suitability of the transfer advice  Mr H 
said he believed hed been given bad advice.
Futures Assured didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary it said, that while Mr H had a 
good understanding of the situation his BSPS pension was in, he remained concerned about 
the future of his pension. It said the only option available to allay Mr Hs concerns was to 
transfer to a personal pension arrangement, which it deemed suitable. It said a personal 
pension also met Mr Hs objective for flexibility and to retire at age 60.
It went on to say that, while Mr Hs DB scheme wouldve provided sufficient guaranteed 
income, he wouldve paid tax on the surplus income unnecessarily which wouldnt have been 
the case in a personal arrangement. Futures Assured also said the transfer met Mr Hs other 
objectives of providing better death benefits for his family, providing an increased tax-free 
cash lump sum for efficient retirement planning and an investment strategy to match his 
attitude to risk.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr H asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator ultimately upheld the complaint and required Futures Assured to pay 
compensation. In summary they said a transfer wasnt suitable. They said a transfer to a 
personal pension was unlikely to improve on Mr Hs DB scheme benefits given the level of 
growth required to match them. They said there was no evidence that Mr H needed flexibility 
of income  his DB scheme wouldve met his income requirements, which was guaranteed 
offering him peace of mind. They also said that improved death benefits wasnt a good 
enough reason to transfer in the circumstances  the primary purpose of the pension was to 
provide a retirement income. They said life assurance was a better means of meeting this 
objective, which was likely affordable.
Furthermore they said that, while early retirement would be appealing to most people, there 
was no evidence that Mr H had set plans to do so  he couldve transferred closer to 
retirement. And finally they said Futures Assured should have provided reassurance around 
the options of the PPF and BSPS2 and better managed Mr Hs concerns about them. 
Overall they said Futures Assured should have recommended Mr H retain his benefits in the 
DB scheme and move them to BSPS2  advice they said Mr H wouldve likely followed.
Futures Assured disagreed. In summary it maintained the advice was suitable; it said each 
option available to Mr H was disclosed along with the advantages and disadvantages of 
each; and the recommendation met Mr Hs documented objectives including providing a tax 
efficient retirement income.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision. 
In submitting further evidence for my consideration, Futures Assured has said that, 
notwithstanding its defence of the advice in this case, it argues that any redress calculation 
should be based on Mr Hs pension benefits moving to the PPF and not BSPS2. It says that 
at the time of the advice BSPS2 was only a proposal and it wasnt guaranteed to go ahead 
and the structure of the scheme wasnt known until later on and after the Time to Choose 
exercise. It says its advice was based on known facts at the time. But it says the facts of 
BSPS2 werent known - so using this as a metric to measure against isnt taking into account 
the facts in this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Futures Assured's actions 
here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Futures 
Assured should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr H was 51 at the time of the advice and he told the adviser he wanted to stop working at 
60. The critical yield, or growth rate required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 60 in BSPS2 
was 4.79% if he took a full pension and 2.33% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension. The equivalent critical yields to match the benefits available if the BSPS moved to 
the PPF were 4.43% and 3.97% respectively.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given, which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 3.5% per year for 8 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, assuming Mr H took a full pension in BSPS2, with a critical yield of 4.79% I think 
Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case 
even if the scheme moved to the PPF. 
If Mr H elected to take his tax-free cash at 60 and a reduced pension in BSPS2, a critical 
yield of 2.33% might suggest it was financially beneficial to transfer and so was suitable 
(although this wouldnt be the case if the scheme moved to the PPF.) But it still required 
Mr H to take investment risk. And given the relatively small difference between the discount 
rate and the critical yield here, I dont think there was much potential for Mr H to exceed the 
pension benefits available from the DB scheme. Indeed I note the advisor recorded on the 
suitability letter that they didnt think this sustained level of growth was achievable.
Furthermore, and crucially in my view, Mr Hs income need in retirement could already have 
been met by his DB scheme pension supplemented by his other pension provision and 
existing means, as I will discuss in more detail below. Mr Hs DB scheme was the primary 
source of his retirement income provision  the foundation of his income need  which was 
guaranteed and would escalate. So it strikes me that there was no real need for Mr H to risk 
his DB scheme benefits and forego these guarantees by transferring to a personal 
arrangement where his pension benefits would depend on investment performance.
I can see that Futures Assureds income modelling forecasts and its arguments have 
focused more on the tax efficiency aspect of Mr H transferring his pension rather than 
providing greater benefits overall  something Ill also discuss below.
For these reasons and based on financial viability alone, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best 
interests to transfer out of the DB scheme. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice  something Futures Assured has argued in this 
case. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is nevertheless suitable. 
Ive considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
The suitability report said that a key objective of Mr Hs was flexibility in when and how he 
took his pension benefits. It said Mr H wanted to be able to take his benefits (tax-free cash 
and an income) at age 60, but also wanted the facility to adjust this if needed  for example 
Mr H might continue to work or reduce his workload. It went on to say that Mr H wanted an 
income to maintain his standard of living with the option of being able to increase or reduce it 
too.
Mr H already had the option to take his pension benefits at 60 by remaining in the scheme  
it allowed him to take early retirement. But Mr H didnt need to take them at 60  the 
schemes normal retirement age was 65. So if Mr H chose to continue to work beyond 60 he 
could delay taking his benefits at anytime up to 65  he wasnt tied to a fixed date. So Mr H 
didnt need to transfer to achieve this kind of flexibility.
If Mr H wanted to reduce his workload and say work part-time after age 60, Mr H had other 
means at his disposal to provide any top up income he might have needed. For example 
Mr H had a substantial sum of money in savings/investments worth around £185,000 he 
couldve used. Mr H was also continuing to save in excess of £1,000 a month at the time of 
the advice, so the total amount at his disposal at 60 was likely to be greater. Mr H also had a 
personal pension plan he was contributing to as well as his employers defined contribution 
(DC) pension scheme, which both he and his employer were contributing to. Combined, 
Futures Assured estimated these could have a value of around £100,000.So it seems to me that Mr H already had a degree of flexibility in how and when he took 
some of his future retirement benefits. Mr H didnt need to transfer out of his DB scheme to 
achieve flexibility if thats what he required.
That said, I cant see evidence that Mr H had a strong need for variable income throughout 
retirement and I dont think Mr Hs need for flexibility as documented was a real objective  
I think it was simply a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement. I can see 
that Futures Assured has said that the flexibility provided by the personal pension 
arrangement - the ability to flex income up and down and how benefits were taken - made 
for a more tax efficient method of producing Mr Hs overall retirement income. 
But Im not persuaded this was a good enough reason for Mr H to put his pension benefits at 
risk and give up a guaranteed and escalating pension  particularly as Im satisfied Mr H 
couldve met his income needs in retirement through the scheme at 60 supported by his 
other means, whether through BSPS2 or if the scheme moved to the PPF. 
Mr H needed £1,500 a month in retirement according to the information gathered by Futures 
Assured. And this doesnt appear unrealistic. If Mr H took benefits from BSPS2 at 60, he 
would be entitled to an annual income of just over £21,600. And if the scheme entered the 
PPF that figure was around £21,100. So in both scenarios Mr Hs income need wouldve 
been. If Mr H elected to take a tax-free cash sum, the reduced pension of around £14,800 
via BSPS2 and around £17,100 via the PPF wouldnt alone have met his income need. But 
Mr H didnt have any specific requirement for the tax-free cash sum, so he couldve used this 
to supplement his income. And as I said above, Mr H had two other pensions as well as his 
savings, which were capable of supplementing his DB scheme income to reach his income 
goal. And this is all before Mr Hs state pension (as well as that of his wife) which would 
become payable from age 67.
The fact Mr H might have had more income than he needed at 67 and would pay income tax 
on any excess is not, in my view, a compelling reason to transfer Mr Hs pension benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
Overall I still think Mr H couldve easily met his retirement income needs by remaining in the 
DB scheme. And I think this was the case whether Mr H opted into BSPS2 or the scheme 
moved to the PPF.  
The suitability letter also said that Mr H wanted access to the maximum pension 
commencement lump sum, or tax-free cash, at age 60. And while I accept its likely Mr H 
would opt to take a lump sum when he took his benefits, theres no evidence that the sum 
offered by his DB scheme  Futures Assured indicated Mr H would be entitled to a little less 
than £100,000 assuming he moved to BSPS2  wasnt sufficient for him. For example Mr H 
didnt have any debts he needed to repay which required a particular amount or that he had 
other specific plans for it. So Im not persuaded that the potential for a greater tax-free cash 
sum was a compelling reason for Mr H to transfer either.
Death benefits
The suitability report said this was a major factor for Mr H. In particular I note it said that 
Mr H didnt want the accumulated value of his pension fund to remain with his employer and 
he would rather it passed to his family. He also wanted better death benefits for his wife.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think the potential 
for greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this and Mr Hs security in 
retirement. And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Hs death was dependent on 
investment returns and if he lived a long life, there may not have been a large sum to pass 
on. Indeed, the drawdown analysis in the suitability report stated that Mr Hs fund would be 
depleted at age 93 if he took income with tax-free cash at age 60 and drew similar benefits 
to those offered by the BSPS2.
I also think the existing death benefits with the BSPS were underplayed. Mr Hs wife 
wouldve received a guaranteed, escalating spouses pension for life, which would have 
been valuable if Mr H predeceased her. And while the suitability report said that there would 
still be an income shortfall to meet Mr Hs wifes needs, I think Futures Assured ought 
reasonably to have known that Mr H had death-in-service cover through his employer if he 
died before retirement. And it also knew that Mr H was paying into the current DC scheme 
and he wouldve been able to nominate his wife as beneficiary of this plan.
The recommendation letter also notes that by staying in the BSPS, the pension ceases in 
the event of both Mr H and his wifes deaths with no provision to pass on any benefits to 
another nominated beneficiary. And I note Mr H had a daughter.
But if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or his daughter, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think Futures Assured shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the 
suitability report mentioned a life policy, but this was discounted by Mr H because of the cost 
(approximately £500 per month). Given the cost quoted here, I think its likely this was based 
on a whole of life policy with a sum assured equal to or around the pension transfer value.
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr H. Basing the 
quote on the transfer value of Mr Hs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would 
pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr H wanted 
to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot less than this if 
he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to 
have been to ask Mr H how much he would ideally like to leave to his family, and how much 
he could afford  I note Mr H had significant disposable income at the time. I think this 
couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a 
lot cheaper to provide and wouldve met his objective without risking his retirement income.
In addition to this I note that Futures Assured believed Mr H would be in receipt of too much 
income if he took benefits from either the PPF or the BSPS2 once his state pension became 
payable. But if that were the case Mr H couldve invested any excess income in a tax-
efficient manner (for example, through a trust) for the benefit of his wife or daughter. 
This also wouldve allowed him to build further funds to leave in the event of his death 
without having an impact on his own retirement plans. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension was a justified reason for the transfer. And I dont think that insurance was properly 
explored as an alternative.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
While I have dealt with this point last, one of the key reasons why Futures Assured recommended Mr H transfer to a personal pension arrangement was to allay his fears about 
his pension  Futures Assured said in its suitability letter that ...this is the only option which 
will ensure your worry and concerns are totally eradicated.
I have no doubt that Mr H was concerned about his pension. He said that many of his 
colleagues were transferring and there was lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So its 
possible that Mr H was also considering transferring because of these concerns about his 
employer and what might happen.
But it was Futures Assureds duty to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests. At the time of the advice, I accept that it wasnt guaranteed BSPS2 
would go ahead. But the information from the scheme trustees available indicated that it 
would likely go ahead - so I think this is what Future Assured shouldve told Mr H to help 
alleviate his concerns. 
And in terms of Mr Hs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, based on what Ive 
seen and discussed earlier on, Mr Hs income needs wouldve still been broadly met through 
the PPF despite the 10% reduction in starting benefits. While the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed. So I think Futures Assured ought to have 
reassured Mr H that, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to 
the PPF was not as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. I think Futures Assured 
placed considerable weight on transferring solely to alleviate Mr Hs concerns  but I dont 
think these concerns shouldve led to Futures Assured recommending that Mr H transfer out 
of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr H was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr H. But Futures Assured wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which along with his other retirement provision 
met his retirement income need. By transferring, Mr H was likely to be no better off in 
retirement, and there remained the possibility that hed be worse. And in my view, there were 
no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Futures Assured shouldve advised Mr H to opt into BSPS2. While Mr H intended 
to retire early at 60, his plans werent in my view concrete. So I don't think that it would've 
been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for early 
retirement. 
Also Mr H was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr 
H chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Futures 
Assured advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Futures Assureds advice. I say this because, while Mr H was motivated to transfer when he approached Futures Assured, on balance, I still 
think Mr H wouldve listened to and followed Futures Assureds advice if things had 
happened as they should have and it recommended he stay in the scheme. Mr H had 
invested money before, but I dont think he could reasonably be described as an 
experienced investor or someone who possessed the necessary knowledge, skill or 
confidence to go against the advice they were given. Mr Hs pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision. So, if Futures Assured had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, 
I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Futures 
Assured had explained that Mr H could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H 
would have insisted on transferring out of his scheme.
In light of the above, I think Futures Assured should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Future Assured has said that any redress calculation in this case should be carried out on 
the basis Mr H moved to the PPF and not the BSPS2. It says this is because at the time of 
the advice BSPS2 was only a proposal - it wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But as I 
explained above, I think there was sufficient information at the time from the scheme 
trustees for Future Assured to have reasonably assumed that the scheme would go ahead, 
and in any event, if Mr H wanted to opt into the BSPS2, he needed to do so by 22 December 
2017. So with this knowledge, and in taking into account Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I 
think if things had happened as they should have and Futures Assured had provided suitable 
advice and acted in Mr Hs best interests, it shouldve recommended that Mr H opt into the 
BSPS2 before the deadline to do so expired. So I think its fair in all the circumstances for 
Futures Assured to base the redress calculation on Mr H opting into the BSPS2.  
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. Mr H would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before his complaint is settled. So 
I consider its fair that Futures Assured waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this 
complaint.
I can see that Futures Assured has argued that it wouldnt be fair to ask it to settle the matter 
using the existing guidance in FG17/9 when the FCA is in the process of updating the 
redress methodology. But Mr H says he wants to wait for any new/guidance rules to be 
published  so Futures Assureds argument falls away here.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely opted into the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, Futures Assured should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes. 
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr H.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance/rules to come into 
effect to determine this complaint. 
Futures Assured Ltd must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated 
methodology as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to 
calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with FG17/9). 
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Futures 
Assured Ltd has received notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Futures Assured to pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Futures Assured deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Futures Assured Ltd 
should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Futures Assured Ltd to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Futures Assured Ltd to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Futures 
Assured Ltd to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Futures Assured Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Futures Assured Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman