DRN-3316922
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mrs M took out in 
connection with a credit card account. Creation Financial Services Limited has accepted 
responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to the business as Creation to keep things 
simple.
Mrs M complains that Creation mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
In March 2006 Mrs M opened a credit card account. Around ten days later, she took out a 
PPI policy. Creations told us its likely the PPI was sold over the phone. The policy was 
designed to pay part of the balance on Mrs Ms credit card each month if she made a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. In summary, he said that Mrs M wasnt working when she took out the PPI policy. So 
she wouldnt have been able to claim for the main benefits of the policy. This meant he didnt 
think it should have been sold to her.
Creation didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M 
and to Creation on 2 February 2022. I said:
Creation has provided a copy of Mrs Ms application form for the credit card. It says that in 
the section on employment, Mrs M ticked a box to say that she was self-employed. So it 
doesnt accept that Mrs M wasnt working when she took out the policy.
The copy of the form is of poor quality and is difficult to read. But Ive looked at it closely, and 
accept that it looks as if the self-employed box was ticked. However, it also looks as if 
another box in the employment section was ticked too. That box was marked other. The 
tick in that box appears to be particularly bold, as if its been gone over more than once with 
a pen for emphasis. I also think its possible that the words self-employed were manually 
crossed out, although given the poor quality of the copy, its not possible to be sure. But 
even if the words self-employed werent crossed through, my view is that it wasnt clear 
from the credit card application form what Mrs Ms employment status was. And I dont 
accept that the application form shows that she was working when she took out the PPI.
The credit card application form made no mention of PPI. Creation has told us that Mrs M 
took out the policy ten days after she opened the credit card account. And it says that this 
was most likely during a phone call. I agree that this seems most likely, given that Mrs M 
didnt take out PPI when she applied for the credit card. PPI was sometimes sold, for 
example, when a cardholder phoned to activate their card, and it may be that this is what 
happened here.
The PPI policy terms and conditions that Creation has sent us show that to make a 
successful claim on the policy for unemployment, a self-employed person would need to 
have permanently ceased to trade because they couldnt pay their debts as they fell due.
Even if (which I dont accept) Mrs M was self-employed, and even if she was told about the 
conditions for a self-employed person to make a claim during the phone call, I dont think 
shed necessarily have understood what this might mean for her. I consider that the need for 
a self-employed person to have ceased trading permanently in order to claim was onerous.
And I think its a significant restriction that Creation should have explained clearly to Mrs M 
before she bought the policy.
I accept that its likely that Mrs M would have been sent a policy document. But that would 
have been after she took out the PPI policy. Whats more, the restriction is buried away in a 
large amount of small, closely-typed text. And I consider that Mrs M could easily have 
missed it.
So based on what Mrs M has told us, and on the evidence provided, Im not satisfied that 
Mrs M was working when she took out the PPI. So Im not persuaded that shed have been 
able to take advantage of the policys main benefits. But even if she was, as Creation claims, 
self-employed, Im not convinced that Mrs M would have taken out the PPI if Creation had 
drawn her attention to the circumstances in which a self-employed person could make an 
unemployment claim.
And I explained that based on what Id seen so far, I was intending to uphold the complaint, 
and to require Creation to put things right by doing as Ive set out under the heading Putting 
things right below.
Further submissions
Creation has told us it accepts my provisional decision. Mrs M hasnt responded to my 
provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think theres any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Creation should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
the PPI policy:
A. Creation should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Creation should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owes and what she 
would have owed.If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when Creation works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, Creation should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs M would have owed Creation something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.  
C.  Creation should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Creation may subtract the amount that it has already repaid to Mrs M in respect of 
commission relating to this PPI sale from the redress shown above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Creation Financial Services Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman