DRN-3686158
The complaint
Mr W complains that Equifax Limited (Equifax) wanted to deal with his query over the phone, 
and he didnt like this as he doesnt use the phone.
What happened
Mr W contacted Equifax and asked them to remove his data for marketing purposes and he 
also made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
Equifax needed some further information from Mr W to deal with his query and so emailed 
him saying:
I have reviewed your query and I feel it would benefit to discuss this matter via 
telephone. Please supply a contact telephone number and a convenient time for me 
to call you
Mr W responded to their email making a complaint, in summary he said he doesnt deal with 
the telephone as he has a speech impairment and has had a bad experience with a different 
business in the past. He went on to say he is registered disabled and felt the request was 
harassment.
Equifax responded to Mr Ws email apologising for asking to deal with his query by phone 
and letting him know it wouldnt happen again. They asked him to confirm if he wanted them 
to remove his phone number from his online help account. And asked if they could make a 
note of what hed told them on file. Mr W replied asking for compensation.
Equifax issued their final response to Mr Ws complaint. They said it was standard policy for 
them to ask customer to deal with them over the phone. When theyd asked him the same, 
they hadnt been aware of his circumstances, and they felt that apologising and making sure 
this didnt happen again was the right thing to do. So, as they found no service failings, they 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr W was unhappy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt feel this was a complaint that should be upheld he said there was no 
evidence that Mr W had told Equifax about his disability or that he didnt want to talk on the 
phone, prior to his email of complaint. And so, Equifax didnt do anything wrong when they 
suggested dealing with his query over the phone.
 Mr W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr W that Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Equifax has said that their normal process is to ask customers to speak to them on the 
phone when dealing with queries. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr W told 
Equifax prior to his email of complaint that he prefers not to communicate by phone. Based 
on Equifaxs response email asking him if he would like his contact number removed from 
their system, it seems he has previously provided them with this, supporting that they didnt 
know about his contact preferences or disability.
The email itself was polit and suggested there would be a benefit to dealing with the query 
over the phone, it didnt suggest this was the only way Equifax would deal with Mr W, nor did 
it imply the phone contact was compulsory. And Im satisfied it wasnt harassing in any way.
When Mr W raised issue with this, Equifax it responded apologising for suggesting phone 
contact and said they would make a note on their systems to make sure this didnt happen 
again. This is how Id expect them to act in these circumstances and so I cant fairly say they 
have done anything wrong here.
I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling about his complaint and know he will be disappointed 
with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with 
Equifax can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman