DRN-3962639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, did not fairly 
compensate them after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out their initial mortgage with Halifax in June 1987. A PPI policy was sold 
to them at the same time. The policy covered both Mr and Mrs R and cost £18 a month at 
the point of sale. This mortgage was redeemed in September 1991.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs R had taken out another mortgage out with Halifax in August 
1991. Another PPI policy was sold to cover the borrowing and this time, the cost of the cover 
was £16 per month at the point of sale. This mortgage was redeemed in October 1995.
Sometime later, Mr and Mrs R complained to Halifax about the sale of PPI. They said they 
had an income protection policy to cover Mr R with effect from 1989 and so the PPI wasnt 
suitable for their needs.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R then complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint about the PPI sold in 1991 should be upheld because by 
this point, Mr and Mrs R had the income protection policy. He didnt think the 1987 sale 
should be upheld because the income protection policy didnt start until after that.
The parties indicated they agreed with our adjudicators view. Halifax then offered to pay 
£96.42 to Mr and Mrs R to compensate them for that mis-sale. It said Mr and Mrs R made 
two PPI payments of £16. Halifax offered to refund what Mr and Mrs R paid for those 
premiums, along with 8% simple interest.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the offer Halifax made. They initially said they had paid for the 
PPI policy up to 1995. They provided a bank statement from August 1995 that showed a 
payment to Halifax of £27.60.
Another of our adjudicators looked at the matter. He said the evidence hed seen from 
Halifax showed Mr and Mrs R paid two PPI premiums for the 1991 policy and that the offer 
Halifax made had been fair.
In response, Mr and Mrs R said they had not cancelled the PPI themselves and that Halifax 
must have done this in 1991 after realising PPI had been mis-sold. In that case, Mr and Mrs 
R said that Halifax should have also cancelled their ongoing policy sold in 1987 at the same 
time in 1991. They said this cover was no longer suitable for them.
As Mr and Mrs R did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
I asked our adjudicator to make some further enquiries of Halifax to ascertain what Mr and 
Mrs R had paid for and when. In response, Halifax told us that the last premium Mr and Mrs 
R paid for the PPI sold alongside the 1987 mortgage was for £26 and was paid on 15 August 
1991.
However, the information Halifax provided in that regard remained unclear. Thats because 
the payment Halifax told us was the final PPI payment appeared to carry forward into the 
next mortgage. Halifax then said this was a buildings insurance policy. It then reverted to its 
original position that the payment in question was for PPI, which had been cancelled in 
August 1991.
This service made numerous attempts to clarify when the 1987 PPI policy was cancelled. 
Regrettably, no further clarification from Halifax was forthcoming. So, I issued a provisional 
decision in which I had to consider all possibilities as to what happened in 1991. I said:
The parties agree PPI was mis-sold in 1991. And Mr and Mrs R didnt disagree 
when our adjudicator said the policy wasnt mis-sold in 1987. That means I dont 
need to look at what happened at the point of sale. Im concerned with whether Mr 
and Mrs R have been fairly compensated for the mis-sale. Ive also looked at Mr and 
Mrs Rs argument that the 1987 policy should have been cancelled when they took 
the 1991 mortgage out.
Was the calculation for the 1991 policy fair?
As it is accepted PPI was mis-sold in respect of the 1991 policy, Id expect Halifax to 
return Mr and Mrs R to the position they would have been in if PPI had never been 
sold to them at that time. Mr and Mrs R were sold a regular premium PPI policy. So 
in those circumstances, Id expect Halifax to pay back to Mr and Mrs R everything 
they paid for the PPI. Id also expect Halifax to pay 8% interest on the cost of those 
premiums from the date Mr and Mrs R paid for them until the day they got that money 
back.
Looking at the electronic evidence Halifax sent us, I can see that two PPI premiums 
were paid for the 1991 mortgage. Both payments appear on the electronic evidence 
on 3 October 1991 and appear to relate 1 September 1991 and 3 October 1991 
respectively. I cannot see that Mr and Mrs R made any further payments towards the 
PPI policy sold alongside the 1991 mortgage.
In looking at the calculation Halifax provided, I can see it has refunded those 
premiums and applied 8% interest. Im satisfied the offer in respect of the 1991 policy 
is fair.
What should have happened with the 1987 policy in 1991?
There has been some considerable confusion about whether Mr and Mrs R 
continued to pay for PPI after the 1987 mortgage was repaid. Mr and Mrs R say they 
paid PPI premiums up to 1995 and that the first policy should have been cancelled 
when the policy for the 1991 mortgage was cancelled.
I know our adjudicator disagreed with Mr and Mrs R in that regard. He said he 
thought that he couldnt safely say Mr and Mrs R intended to cancel the 1987 policy 
when they cancelled the 1991 policy. He also said he thought Mr and Mrs R indicated 
they wanted PPI in 1987, so the policy wasnt mis-sold. As the policy wasnt mis-sold, 
our adjudicator said he didnt think any premiums for the 1987 policy should be 
refunded.
As I said above, Halifax said that the final PPI payment linked to the 1987 mortgage 
was made on 15 August 1991. Thats what Id usually expect to happen in cases such as this. 
But the information Halifax provided to demonstrate that point doesnt seem to be 
supported by the evidence it provided to this service. I say this because Halifax told 
us that the final PPI payment in respect of the 1987 mortgage was paid by standing 
order for £26 on 15 August 1991. However, those payments continued to be made 
after the 1987 mortgage was redeemed and they appear to have been carried 
forward into the new mortgage account.
For example, I can see payments of £26 were made on 15 September 1991, 15 
October 1991, 15 November 1991 and 16 December 1991  after the 1987 mortgage 
was redeemed.
What appear to be the same standing order payments were later paid at the rate of 
£27.60 at the point the mortgage was redeemed in 1995 and beyond. Halifax told us 
these £27.60 payments were for buildings insurance. If that was the case, then it 
would seem most likely to follow that the £26 payments Halifax said were for PPI 
were also for buildings insurance, and not PPI.
But Mr and Mrs R dispute that the payments were for buildings insurance. They 
provided a bank statement in which they paid a separate payment to a different 
insurer. Mr and Mrs R say that this payment was likely buildings insurance.
It is regrettable that despite numerous attempts made by this service to seek 
clarification as to the issue I have identified here, no such clarity has been 
forthcoming from Halifax. What it means in this case is that I am unable to say what 
those payments most likely were or when Mr and Mrs R stopped paying for the 1987 
policy. With that being so, in considering Mr and Mrs Rs argument that the alleged 
premiums they paid after 1991 should be refunded, I have considered all possibilities.
Possibility one  the 1987 policy was cancelled in August 1991
As I said above, Halifax initially told us that the PPI policy was cancelled in August 
1991. If that is the case, then there would have been no further premiums to refund 
after that time.
Possibility two  that the £26 payments were for buildings insurance
I note the PPI policy initially cost £18. If the £26 payments in question were for 
buildings insurance, then I cannot see that any of the other transactions from the 
1987 mortgage carried forward to the 1991 mortgage. So if the £26 payments were 
buildings insurance, it suggests the PPI policy would have been cancelled before the 
mortgage was redeemed.
Possibility three  that the £26 payments were for a PPI policy that Mr and 
Mrs R paid for up to 1995
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think PPI premiums should be refunded after 1991 
because the PPI policy was not mis-sold. However, as Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was
redeemed, Ive considered whether the policy should have been cancelled at that 
point.
I can see that if a claim had to be made on the 1987 cover, the PPI policy would have 
paid out £450 per month. When the cover was set up in 1991, it was for a monthly benefit of £400 in the event of a successful claim. It seems to me most likely that if 
the PPI payments did continue into the second mortgage that the second policy was 
most likely cancelled because it offered duplicate cover to the policy Mr and Mrs R 
already had.
That means if the 1991 policy was cancelled because it was effectively duplicate 
cover, its unlikely that Halifax would have been instructed to cancel both policies. I 
agree with our adjudicator that I wouldnt expect Halifax to pay back those premiums.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision. And Im 
sorry I havent been able to tell them definitively what happened with their 1987 PPI 
policy. But irrespective of that, as things stand, I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 9 February 2023. Regrettably, Halifax did not respond. Mr and Mrs R reiterated 
their position that the 1987 policy should have been cancelled in 1991 and that at the time, 
they believed the ongoing payments related to a new policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr and Mrs R said in their reply to my provisional decision. 
But even if I accept that the ongoing payments after 1991 were for a PPI policy sold in 1987, 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to cancel that policy of its own volition. I know Mr and Mrs R will be 
disappointed with my decision, but Im not persuaded that I should depart from my 
provisional findings. 
So for the reasons set out above in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint and 
I dont require Halifax to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman