DRN-2088910
The complaint
Mrs A has complained to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) about a joint mortgage 
with her ex-husband (Mr A).  She is unhappy that NatWest allowed a mortgage repayment 
holiday without her consent.
What happened
Mrs A has a joint mortgage with her ex-husband.  Mr A has sole occupancy of the property 
and is making the repayments until it is sold. 
 
In June 2018 Mrs A asked NatWest to put a note on the mortgage account, requesting that 
no changes be made to the mortgage without her consent. NatWest has confirmed a note 
was recorded on its systems recording this.
At the start of the covid-19 pandemic in May 2020, Mr A applied to NatWest for a mortgage 
repayment holiday.  NatWest accepted Mr As request without obtaining Mrs As consent.
Mrs A complained to NatWest but it didnt uphold her complaint. In summary it said:
a streamlined process was put in place because of covid-19 and it didnt involve 
checking any system notes;
the request form completed online by Mr A asked if the applicant was acting on 
behalf of all parties named on the mortgage  and he declared he was.
any deferred payments would be divided by any remaining repayments once the 
repayment holiday ends.
the situation would have been worse if it declined the repayment holiday and the 
mortgage fell into arrears  as that would affect the credit files of both Mr A and Mrs 
A equally.
Mrs A remained unhappy with NatWests actions and referred her complaint to this Service.  
She expressed concerns that she will suffer financial loss as the mortgage balance will be 
higher than it should when the property is sold, and so shell get a lower share of its equity. 
To resolve matters, Mrs A asked for the repayment holiday to be stopped and confirmation 
that shell be compensated for any financial loss suffered once the property is sold.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As concerns.  She concluded that NatWest had not 
acted unreasonably in allowing the repayment holiday and she didnt consider there was a 
financial loss in relation to the joint mortgage  so any dispute over the sale proceeds would 
be a matter between Mrs A and her ex-husband.
But the investigator did acknowledge that by not contacting Mrs A about the request, 
NatWest had caused her unnecessary trouble and upset.  She recommended NatWest pay 
£100 to Mrs A to reflect this.
NatWest accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mrs A did not.  She 
acknowledged that there is a civil dispute behind the issues, but re-iterated that by changing 
its process and not paying attention to its system notes, NatWest had compounded the 
issue.
As no agreement could be reached, it was requested that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a fresh review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  
and Ill explain why.
Its important I start by saying that I do empathise with Mrs As position.  The reason that she 
asked NatWest to add a file note and check with her before any changes to the mortgage, 
was to protect herself from exactly this type of situation.  And I have considered this point 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable overall.
Ive looked at the steps NatWest took in allowing a repayment holiday on the mortgage.  As 
a result of the covid-19 pandemic, the financial regulator (the FCA) issued guidance in 
March 2020 that mortgage providers had to follow. That guidance said:
Where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
holiday, a firm should grant a customer a payment holiday.
Given the unique circumstances, volume of requests, and the need to implement changes 
quickly, NatWest (along with other mortgage providers) put in place a streamlined process to 
enable this.  NatWest has explained that for it to grant a repayment holiday, a detailed online 
application form had to be completed by Mr A  and he had to confirm that he was acting on 
behalf of both him and Mrs A (as joint mortgage holders).
We now know that Mr A was not acting with Mrs As agreement  and so what I must decide 
is whether NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably when accepting the request.
Im mindful of Mrs A concerns, but Ive also given weight to the fact that Mr A was in 
occupancy of the property and responsible for making the full payments to maintain the 
mortgage.  Whilst I understand there are civil matters being disputed by Mrs A with her ex-
husband, I also recognise the FCA guidance was put in place to help people who might 
struggle to meet payments as an emergency process.
Given the urgent nature of putting things in place, I accept that its reasonable for NatWest to 
have implemented a simpler application and acceptance process.  The implications of not 
accepting the repayment holiday could have resulted in Mr A missing mortgage payments.  I 
consider the impact of that could have been far worse for both Mrs A and Mr A  because as 
a joint mortgage it would have shown as an adverse entry on their credit files and that the 
mortgage was in arrears.
For me, I havent lost sight of Mrs As concerns  and that she informed NatWest of the 
situation in 2018.  But I find it difficult to say NatWest acted unfairly given the wider 
circumstances  and the fact it was advised Mrs As agreed to the change on the application 
(albeit Mr A did not in fact have that agreement).
I also note Mrs A is claiming for a potential financial loss, as she may receive less equity on 
the sale of the property.  But currently there is no loss, and the distribution of sale proceeds 
is a civil matter between Mr and Mrs A.  My intention is not to be insensitive to Mrs As position  but overall, Im unable to say NatWest acted unfairly when it allowed the 
repayment holiday having used the same process and criteria for all customers.
I do however, think that NatWests communication about the change could have been better.  
I feel it ought to have informed Mrs A of the position, without her having to call and 
unexpectedly find out for herself.  I agree with the investigator that this has resulted in some 
distress for Mrs A, and so I am upholding the complaint in part and a payment for trouble 
and upset should be made.
Ive considered the circumstances and uncertainty Mrs A has experienced and feel that £100 
is an appropriate sum to reflect that.
I realise Mrs A is likely to be disappointed with my conclusion, and I understand she was 
hoping for NatWest to do more.  But I must reassure her Ive reviewed everything fully and 
impartially and my conclusions are based upon what I feel is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs A complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc and I direct it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman