DRN-3800903
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd (Cathedral) gave 
unsuitable advice to invest into an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS).
What happened
In August 2015 Mrs V received advice from Cathedral to invest £442,980 into an EIS. Mrs V 
was looking to secure inheritance tax (IHT) efficiencies that would benefit her estate. By 
2020, Mrs V had lost around half of the capital sum invested. Mrs V complains that she was 
exposed to more risk than she wanted to take, the recommendation being high risk and 
lacking in diversification.  Mrs V seeks compensation for her capital losses.
Cathedral say that the recommendation was suitable, Mrs Vs main objective was to reduce  
IHT liability and this objective was met. The suitability report evidenced discussion around 
alternative options that were discounted. Mrs V had indicated that she was prepared to 
invest into higher risk assets to gain IHT savings and the EIS enabled deferment of her 
capital gains tax liabilities. Cathedral also highlighted that Mrs Vs daughter had been 
involved in discussions about the recommendation.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought the recommendation to invest in this 
EIS wasnt in keeping with Mrs Vs normal attitude to risk and the risks were heightened by 
investment into a single EIS in one industry sector. The recommendation lacked 
diversification, exposing Mrs V to more risk in the event of sector downturns. Our 
investigator also took into account that Mrs V did not recall completing risk assessments and 
those relied upon by Cathedral were completed very early in the morning, were inconsistent 
in content and were completed by the adviser. Also, no notes of the meeting had been 
provided, so our investigator also placed weight upon Mrs Vs and her daughters 
recollection of events. Our investigator agreed that there were some risk warnings within the 
suitability letter but accepted Mrs V had relied upon Cathedrals description in discussions 
that the investment was more risky than her usual investments, not that it was high risk. 
Our investigator also considered that whilst Mrs V had some capacity for loss, she was 
advised to invest a significant proportion of her funds into the EIS. Mrs V already had some 
tax mitigation in place and it appeared she wished to retain access to her funds, whereas by 
investing in the EIS, her funds became illiquid with the earliest exit being in four years. Our 
investigator concluded that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs V. Had Mrs V been 
appraised of the full circumstances, he thought she would have invested differently. He 
thought it was fair and reasonable for Cathedral to pay the difference between the fair value 
of the investment (assessed against a FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index benchmark) less the actual value of EIS (to be assessed as zero if the investment 
remained illiquid) less tax reliefs. Undertakings were suggested, if Cathedral wished to take 
on the investment. In addition, our investigator thought £500 should be paid in compensation 
for distress caused to Mrs V by the unsuitable recommendation.
Cathedral disagree with the view and further reasoning provided by the investigator. They 
say Mrs V had investment experience and was content to accept a higher risk exposure in 
order to obtain IHT efficiencies and other tax benefits. Cathedral rely predominantly on the 
suitability letter, which they say accurately disclosed the risk profile of the product and 
highlight that the risks were discussed with Mrs V and her daughter separately. Mrs V 
understood the risks and had likely discussed matters with her daughter, who was providing 
support. Cathedral also say that the risk assessments were completed by the adviser 
following a meeting with Mrs V and accurately reflected her views. Mrs Vs objectives were 
IHT mitigation and CGT deferral, she had not wished to discuss other tax efficient options. 
Further, Mrs V had not wished the administrative paperwork with multiple EIS providers, 
hence only one provider had been selected. Cathedral also highlight that Mrs Vs objectives 
should not be ignored when considering redress and care should be taken not to redress in 
a vacuum.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is helpful to highlight at the outset that Ive made my decision based upon the 
balance of probabilities having weighed up the information provided by each party. Having 
reviewed the timeline, Im satisfied that the parties have had reasonable time to provide all 
the information they wished me to consider. Where a finding is made that a business has 
done something wrong, redress will be calculated on a fair and reasonable basis.
I trust the parties will not take it as a discourtesy that I have not addressed every point 
raised, Id like to give reassurance that I have read the information provided by both parties. 
This decision focuses on the core complaint as to the suitability of the recommendation of 
this particular investment to Mrs V, considering the point the recommendation was made, 
taking into account Mrs Vs particular circumstances, her objectives, attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. 
Ive considered Mrs Vs circumstances. At the time the review was undertaken in August 
2015, Mrs V was in good health with a sufficient income to cover her monthly outgoings. She 
held £390,124 in an offshore bond, £68,727 in an ISA and £624,483 in portfolio (unit trusts). 
Mrs V also owned her own home and was undertaking building works.
Objective
It is common ground that Mrs V was concerned generally about IHT and wished to protect 
her capital for her daughter to inherit. Theres also no dispute that the recommendation to 
invest in an EIS offered inheritance tax efficiencies. Further, the EIS provided the opportunity 
to defer the capital gains tax liability that had been triggered by cashing in the unit trusts. 
This particular EIS was also said to target capital preservation, but to be clear the investment 
strategy of aiming not to lose capital invested, was separate to the inherent risks of investing 
in an EIS (addressed below).Cathedral identified that Mrs V had a significant capital gain from her portfolio and 
recommended the EIS in order to defer that CGT liability, explaining that if the CGT liability 
wasnt deferred Mrs V would need to pay HMRC £120,476. The suitability letter highlighted 
that CGT could be deferred, but in my view it was not clear that this liability could crystalise 
when the EIS shares were sold. Instead, the suitability letter said that there may be an 
opportunity to phase the withdrawals so that tax would not need to be paid on the original 
plan and illustrations showed a zero liability. From what I have seen, no further assessment 
of this possibility was made.
Risk
Cathedral place weight on the suitability report, which I have considered. However, it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to view this in isolation given that there are differing 
accounts from the parties, so I have reviewed the information provided by both parties.
Ive considered the information available to the adviser at the time. It is not disputed that   
Mrs Vs attitude to risk was assessed as medium and thats expressly recorded in the 
suitability report, namely that her overall risk profile had remained the same and was 
medium. I note Mrs V describes herself as more of a cautious investor and I have seen a 
letter showing investment into a portfolio in 2011 said to be in a cautious fund, but I dont 
think undermines the general finding that as at the time advice was given Mrs Vs general 
attitude to risk was medium, which was consistent with the investments she held.
In addition to the suitability report (addressed below), Cathedral have placed reliance upon 
two risk assessments, which say Mrs V selected different risk responses for the EIS (risk 
level 6 high) and general investment (risk level 4 medium) when answering a series of 
questions about risk appetite. I place limited weight on these assessments. Its now clear 
that they were completed by the adviser, in close succession (within five minutes of each 
other) very early in the morning. They were not completed by Mrs V but are said to reflect 
discussions held the day before. However, neither Mrs V nor her daughter recall having sight 
of these documents and there are no contemporaneous notes of the meeting to show that 
these specific questions were put to Mrs V. 
Cathedral have said Mrs V had investment experience but Ive balanced that against her 
account that she had limited experience save for having knowledge of investing in shares, 
which she inherited after her husbands death. There is nothing to show that Mrs V had 
experience with this type of investment, EISs being non-mainstream, complex, illiquid, 
specialised and speculative investments, where there is a real risk of losing the original, 
capital investment.
And whilst its fair to say that Cathedral did ensure the recommendation was also discussed 
with Mrs Vs daughter, Im persuaded by her account that she relied upon the advice 
provided, I havent seen anything that shows Mrs Vs daughter had any particular experience 
with this type of complex investment either.  
I think its fair to conclude that Mrs V was willing to take some risk to gain inheritance tax 
relief, but Im not persuaded that tax advantages were more important to her than the risk of 
losing all the capital sum. 
The suitability letter refers to there being a discussion about the large increase in risk 
associated with potential tax savings and it was recorded that Mrs V was unhappy about 
paying her taxes if no action was taken. Cathedral say Mrs V agreed she would accept a 
very high level of risk where there was a risk of losing some or all of [her] capital. However, the highlighted key risks section also included in the suitability letter was less clear 
and said the EIS would invest in smaller companies, that have a higher failure rate, whereby 
capital would be at risk. The letter then went onto capture chunks of information taken from 
the EIS Information Memorandum (IM). Mrs V recalled there was a lot of jargon being used 
so she deferred to the advisers expertise.
Cathedral also say that Mrs V was provided with a copy of the EIS IM, so ought to have 
been aware of the risks. But as Mrs V was seeking and relying upon professional advice, it 
wasnt enough for the adviser to expect Mrs V to have identified different factors from the IM 
or to point to sections of it. It was for the adviser to assess whether the level of risk was 
suitable for Mrs V. 
I have also considered Mrs V and her daughters consistent recollection that the risk of 
losing all capital was not made clear in the discussions with the adviser. Both describe being 
advised that for some extra risk, tax advantages could be secured not that all the capital 
investment was at risk. Given Mrs Vs lack of experience with this type of investment, I dont 
think it would be unreasonable for her to rely upon what she was told. Ive also noted that the 
illustrations produced at the time, were arguably misleading. They showed projections as to 
the possible tax savings that could be achieved by investment in the EIS, compared to not 
investing or investing part. However, the illustrations assumed that the capital sum remained 
the same over time, they did not reflect the high risk of the capital sum depleting 
significantly.
Its also relevant that there was a higher concentration of risk due to the lack of 
diversification. The IM stated investment may be in one or a small number of companies, 
with the investments being in one sector, Therefore, there is likely to be limited 
diversification, which could increase the risk for investors. However, theres nothing to show 
that Mrs V was advised about the impact of a lack of diversification with this investment, 
which was a material risk factor, other than a generic reference to possible limited 
diversification. I agree with the investigator that investing funds in a single industry sector 
exposed Mrs V to significant risk if a downturn in that area materialised. Im not persuaded 
by the argument that this course was reasonable because Mrs V wished to have less 
paperwork. Ultimately the responsibility for assessing the suitability of an investment lies with 
the professional adviser and failing to diversify the investment, especially one which was a 
substantial amount of overall assets, increased the risk exposure.
Cathedral also say the recommendation was suitable because other areas of investment 
were reduced to a cautious approach, but I dont think thats borne out by the evidence. 
Within the same recommendation another £120,476 was recommended for investment in a 
tax efficient Business Property Relief scheme, which again was higher risk. Further, the 
portfolio to which the balance of funds were moved to, was selected at Spectrum Growth 4, 
which appears to have been a balanced portfolio.
Taking everything into account, for similar reasons to those addressed by our investigator, it 
is my view that Mrs V was exposed to more risk than she wanted to take. By their own 
calculations, Cathedral state in their letter of March 2022 that Mrs V was advised to invest 
40% of her assets into the EIS. That was a significant proportion. Considering Mrs V wanted 
to protect her capital to pass to her daughter, Im not persuaded she would have invested 
into the EIS if she had understood that all the capital was at risk. 
Capacity for loss
It is also relevant considering Mrs V s circumstances above that she had some capacity for 
loss, but I note that much of her assets were tied into property. Mrs V did not need access to 
the funds for day-to-day living but had referred to wanting to retain some access, which 
wasnt possible when the funds were tied into the EIS for several years.Conclusion
In light of my findings, I am not satisfied that it is likely that Mrs V would have invested in the 
EIS if shed understood the risks involved. Overall, for the reasons given, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was suitable for her. I am therefore upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Ive considered how to put Mrs V back into the position shed 
have probably been in if she hadnt been given unsuitable advice, which isnt as 
straightforward as simply refunding the original investment. 
Im mindful that had it not been for the unsuitable advice, Mrs V wouldnt have had the EIS 
tax relief already availed of and she wouldnt have whatever value (if any) the EIS now has. 
This redress effectively unwinds the investment as if it wasnt made and a comparator 
investment was made instead. So, Mrs V may wish to take advice about the tax implications 
of accepting this decision.
Given the information Mrs V has provided, I think shed have invested differently. It isnt 
possible for me to say precisely what she would have done, so Ive considered what I think is 
fair and reasonable given her circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk when she 
invested. 
To compensate Mrs V fairly, Cathedral must: 
 Compare the performance of Mrs Vs investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
 Cathedral should also pay interest as set out below. 
Investment 
nameStatus benchmark from (start 
date)To  (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Octopus EIS Still exists FTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index 
and then 
from 1 
March 2017 
the FTSE 
UK Private 
Investor 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be surrendered or readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs V agrees to Cathedral 
taking ownership of the investment, if it wished to. If it is not possible for Cathedral to take 
ownership, then it can request an undertaking from Mrs V that she repays to Cathedral any 
amount she might receive from the investment in future. 
Cathedral may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mrs V has received by 
virtue of making the investment. It may ask her for evidence of this, or assume she has 
availed herself of all available relief at his marginal rate of tax.
For ease it can calculate the value of the available relief and add it to the actual value as one 
figure at the end.
fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Cathedral totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting 
periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and 
left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
The EIS only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the EIS to be closed and 
any further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Cathedral taking over the investment or  
this is something Mrs V can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take.
If third parties are involved, we dont have the power to them what to do. If Cathedral are 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
Cathedral pays Mrs V an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the EIS to be closed.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I decided on this method of compensation because: 
 Mrs V was willing to accept some investment risk, but Im not persuaded she would have 
taken more risk to gain tax efficiencies.
 The WMA index and Private Investor index are made up of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. They would be a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
 Although they are called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use them as a reasonable measure of comparison given    
Mrs Vs circumstances and risk attitude.
I have also taken into account that Mrs V has suffered distress at being unable to access her 
funds, whilst watching the value deplete overtime. I consider that it is more likely than not that she has suffered distress and upset as a result of the advice given and the subsequent 
locking into an investment, which was unsuitable for her needs. In my view it is fair and 
reasonable to make an award of compensation and I consider that £500 is a fair sum.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £170,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £170,000, I may recommend that 
Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Cathedral Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the 
maximum of £170,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any 
interest on the balance as set out above. Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd 
should provide details of its calculations to Mrs V in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £170,000, I recommend that Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd pays 
Mrs V the balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, 
then any investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs V. This is until any future 
benefit that she may receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by 
Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full 
fair compensation as set out above.
Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd may request an undertaking from Mrs V that 
either she repays to Cathedral Independent Financial Planning Ltd any amount she may 
receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to Cathedral 
Independent Financial Planning Ltd at that point.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Cathedral 
Independent Financial Planning Ltd. It is unlikely that Mrs V can accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. Mrs V may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman