DRN-2573649
The complaint
Mr J complains that the loans he had from PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) were 
unaffordable.
What happened
Mr J had six loans from Mr Lender between December 2016 and December 2019 as 
summarised below:
Loan Date Amount Term Max 
Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
123 Dec 2016 £500 5m £208.00 19 May 2017Deferred 1m
19 Jun 2017
219 Jun 2017 £700 6m £284.66 19 Dec 2017Deferred 1m
19 Jan 2018
319 Jan 2018 £750 6m £311.00 19 Jul 2018Deferred 1m
17 Aug 2018
4 31 Aug 2018 £350 4m £148.70 19 Dec 2018Repayment plan
18 Apr 2019
5 29 Jul 2019 £250 3m £125.33 18 Oct 2019Deferred 2m
19 Dec 2019
6 23 Dec 2019 £450 6m £171.36 19 Jun 2020 On time
Mr J says the loans were unaffordable and if Mr Lender had done better checks it would 
have seen that.
Mr Lender says it conducted an employment check and a credit check and asked Mr J about 
his income and outgoings. It says its checks did not indicate Mr J was struggling financially. 
However, Mr Lender acknowledged that loan 4 was taken out shortly after Mr Js third loan 
and there had been a slight change in his credit file and so, it says, it could have asked 
further questions before approving that loan. As a result, Mr Lender offered to refund the 
interest charged on loan 4 and to remove any associated adverse information from his credit 
file.
Mr J did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He considered 
proportionate checks were likely to have shown Mr J was having problems managing his 
money by loan 3 and that his pattern of borrowing by loan 6 suggested he was reliant on 
short-term loans. Our adjudicator said Mr Lender should refund interest charged on loans 3 
to 6 (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any negative information about loans 3 to 5 
from Mr Js credit file. He added that loan 6 should be removed from the credit file entirely.
Mr Lender responded to question why its checks for loan 3 werent proportionate and what 
other borrowing Mr J had at the time. It pointed out the 102-day gap between loans 4 and 5.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to ensure Mr J could sustainably 
repay the loans. These checks could take into account a number of things, like the loan 
amount, monthly repayments and Mr Js income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue difficulty 
and says a customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet repayments. And it 
follows that lenders should realise, or ought reasonably to realise, that borrowers wont be 
able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to do so without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.Loans 1 and 2
As these were Mr Js first loans with Mr Lender and the repayments were a maximum of 
16% of his income, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough. There 
was nothing in the available information to indicate Mr J was in financial difficulties, so I cant 
conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loans 1 or 2.
Loan 3
When Mr J applied for loan 3, I consider Mr Lender should have ensured it fully understood 
his financial circumstances before approving the application., I say that because:
This was Mr Js third loan application and hed been in debt to Mr Lender for a year;
This was the second time Mr J had applied for a new loan on the same day hed 
repaid a previous one;
Mr J had deferred repayments on both loans 1 and 2;
The loan amounts were continuing to increase;
Mr Js declared disposable income had decreased.
Ive looked into what Mr Lender is likely to have found had it carried out better checks for 
loan 3 and I can see Mr J had multiple outstanding high cost loans at the time, with at least 
three loan providers. The repayments on these loans far exceeded the £320 monthly credit 
commitment Mr J had declared. So I think its likely, if Mr Lender had conducted 
proportionate checks, it would have found it was irresponsible to have approved loan 3.
Loan 4
Mr Lender has already agreed to uphold this loan, so I wont consider it further here.
Loan 5
I accept there was a gap in lending between loans 4 and 5, but I dont find 102 days is 
sufficiently long for Mr Lender to reasonably consider loan 5 as a new loan chain given the 
circumstances. I say that because Mr J repaid all four of the previous loans later than the 
original contractual date and loan 4 ended up on a repayment plan. So, although I can see 
Mr Lender verified Mr Js income by obtaining a bank statement, Im not satisfied Mr 
Lenders checks went far enough and I find it was irresponsible to have approved loan 5 
given the repayment history.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:Mr J had been borrowing from Mr Lender almost continuously for three years;
Loan 6 was taken out within four days of loan 5 being repaid and the amount 
borrowed had increased again;
Mr J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan 6 was 
taken out three years after his first and it was for almost the same amount. Mr J had 
paid a lot of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender for an extended period.
I think Mr J lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing at loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Js 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for high-cost loans.
So Im upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 3 to 6, and Mr Lender should put things right.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 3 to 6;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Mr J the total of A plus B;
D.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to loans 3 
to 5. The overall pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loan 6 means any information 
recorded about this loan is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove loan 6 entirely 
from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman