DRN-2773604
The complaint
The executors of Mrs Hs estate complain that Quilter Financial Services Ltd didnt give them 
suitable information when they were dealing with investments the estate held. 
What happened
Through our investigation, the executors complaint has been boiled down to three main 
points. Firstly, they feel Quilter had a duty to provide them with services, given the contract 
that had existed between Quilter and Mrs H. 
Secondly, the executors feel that service should have included detailed information about 
the options for handling a specific investment during the probate process, and the possible 
tax implications for the estate. 
And finally, given their feelings on those two points, the executors feel that with a better level 
of service the estate would be better off financially. 
In response to the executors complaints, Quilter said its duty to the executors was met. It 
gave them valuations for the estates investments, and processed the paperwork needed to 
follow the executors instructions. It says there was no agreement  or fees charged  to 
provide advice. 
The executors brought the matter to us. Our investigator found that Quilter had provided a 
reasonable level of service in this case. She explained how the documents from the time 
seemed to confirm the executors were happy with what theyd received. And she said she 
didnt think Quilter needed to have done more to advise or inform the executors about the 
various ways they could have handled the administration of the estate. 
The executors didnt agree with that view, and said they wanted a formal response to the 
three points they said formed the crux of their complaint. So the complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Quilter have provided a reasonable level of service in this case. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Taking the executors three points in turn, I agree Quilter could be expected to give the 
estate some information about the investments. What the estate held and its value was 
needed for working out inheritance tax. But the information Quilter had to supply was limited. 
I can see Quilter did enough by telling the executors what existed, and how much value it 
held to fulfil its duty. 
The death of Mrs H didnt create a need for Quilter to start providing her estate with financial 
advice. That wasnt something Quilter said it would do when they started acting for Mrs H. 
And there wasnt any agreement to do that after Mrs H died. 
Quilter also wouldnt necessarily know what the estate planned to do with the investments, 
or what other assets the estate held. So stepping in to tell the executors their options  
unprompted  would have been tricky. Quilter didnt have the full facts, so any suggestions 
risked overlooking some important factor. It was reasonable they just stuck to giving the 
executors the information that was asked for, and not volunteering more than that. 
The missed opportunities to do things differently that the executors have described in their 
complaint comes from them not being more familiar with the investments the estate held, or 
the way inheritance tax would work. But I feel those were points for the executors to have 
sought advice on, rather than expecting Quilter to have proactively assisted them with. 
Here, Quilter had administered the investments prior to Mrs Hs death. It then gave her 
estate information about what the investments were, and how much value they had. It also 
then provided the forms needed to confirm the estates instructions for those investments. 
That did enough to provide a fair and reasonable service to the estate, given the relationship 
that existed between Quilter and Mrs H, and her estate. 
My final decision
Given the above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
Mrs Hs estate to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman