DRN-4420575
The complaint
Mr P complains Tandem Bank Limited blocked his account. He didnt have access to his 
funds. He would like compensation.
What happened
Mr P had an account with Tandem.
Following activity on the account, Tandem requested information from Mr P. Mr P said he 
was unable to provide this information. Tandem blocked the account on 12 January 2022 in 
order to carry out a review. Following the review Tandem decided to close Mr Ps account. 
Tandem requested an account from Mr P in order to transfer the closing balance. Mr P didnt 
want the account to close so refused to give Tandem an account. He said he wanted to 
know the reason Tandem had taken this decision.
Mr P transferred £35,000 to an external account on 3 February 2022. Following this Tandem 
transferred the balance of Mr Ps account to the same external account on 4 February 2022 
and closed Mr Ps account.
Mr P has said he was unhappy that Tandem didnt provide him notice of their intention to 
block the account. He was unhappy with the service Tandem provided, he said he had lost 
out on obtaining a higher interest with another provider as he couldnt access his funds. He 
said he was distressed at not being able to access his savings and he didnt think Tandem 
had dealt with his complaint promptly.
Tandem said they were entitled to review the account to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They didnt have to give Mr P a reason for the closure of his account. 
They didnt think he had lost out on interest as he had been paid interest during the time of 
the block. They acknowledged that Mr P might be disappointed with the timescales in 
responding to the complaint, Tandem said they were investigating the complaint in order to 
provide a response. The complaints team only dealt with queries by email and not phone. 
Tandem explained their technical error had prevented them from closing the account and 
returning the funds to Mr P sooner.
Mr P complained to our service. One of the investigators looked at the complaint. He thought 
Tandem hadnt acted unfairly when they blocked and subsequently closed Mr Ps account. 
Tandem were entitled to ask for the extra information.
Mr P was unhappy with the view he said he was given wrong information over the phone; he 
was told the account would remain open until he spoke to a manager but Tandem closed the 
account the next day- Tandem provided Mr P with a final response to his complaint on 
7 February 2022 so the proposed call from a manager on 8 February didnt take place. Mr P 
thought Tandem should pay him £100 compensation.
The investigator reconsidered the information in the light of Mr Ps comments. He thought 
Tandem hadnt withdrawn their notice to close during this call merely because Mr P hadnt 
provided Tandem with an account in which to pay the balance.  He thought Tandem had 
reiterated their position regarding the account closure in their final response letter dated 
7 February 2022. He accepted Mr P had further technical difficulties when he tried to transfer 
money on 4 February 2022, but this was resolved the same day and Mr P was able to 
withdraw his funds.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ps account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Tandem were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ps account and asked him to provide information about 
how he was operating his accounts. 
Tandem requested some information from Mr P in particular some bank statements. Mr P 
said he wasnt comfortable providing this information to Tandem and he didnt think it was 
necessary.
Tandem has to have in place security measures and procedures in order to try to safeguard 
its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and regulatory obligations. And 
its not for this service to interfere with these processes. Thats a matter for Tandem. Im 
satisfied Tandem were entitled to request the information that it did from Mr P. 
I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Tandem acted unfairly when they reviewed and blocked 
Mr Ps account. Looking at the evidence that Tandem have provided this service Im satisfied 
they acted promptly and there were no delays in the review of the account. It follows I dont 
think any compensation should be paid here.
Closure
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Tandem acted fairly in closing Mr Ps account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with immediate effect in certain 
circumstances. In this case Tandem closed Mr Ps account without notice. For Tandem to 
act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  
and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied 
the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the account as its already done. Customer service issues
Mr P is unhappy that despite being promised to, he didnt receive a call from a manager on 
8 February 2022. Mr P had been led to believe that his account would remain available to 
him on a call with an agent on 3 February 2022. I have listened to the call on 3 February 
2022. In it the agent for Tandem tells Mr P that Tandem will be closing his account with 
immediate effect, and he mentioned clause 4 of the terms and conditions. Mr P was unhappy 
to hear this news and raised a complaint and said he wanted to speak to a manager. The 
agent promised him a call for 8 February 2022.
Mr P has said he should receive compensation because he was led to believe that his 
account would remain open until he spoke to the manager on 8 February 2022. I have 
considered Tandems processes. Tandem have said they provide notice to their customers 
by phone of their intention to close an account and this is what they did in Mr Ps case. Mr P 
was understandably unhappy with this news and wanted to know the reason for the closure. 
Tandem arent obliged to give Mr P a reason for closing the account and as Ive explained I 
think they acted fairly when closing the account. They were entitled to close the account with 
immediate effect, and this is provided for in the terms of the account. I dont think Mr P would 
have been given a reason for the account closure even if he had received the expected call 
on 8 February 2022. 
Mr P refused to give the agent an account for his funds to be transferred to. Tandem have 
said that they would normally transfer the funds to the customers linked account, but Mr P 
had a number of accounts linked and they wanted to give him an option to choose his 
preferred account. Im satisfied that but for Mr Ps numerous linked accounts, Tandem would 
have closed the account and transferred the funds directly to his linked account following the 
conversation on 3 February 2022, as that is the process they have outlined to me. 
Having heard the call I accept that Mr P was told that his account would remain operational 
whilst he waited for a managers call on 8 February 2021. The agent confirmed no closure 
action had been taken and the block had been removed from the account. However Tandem 
closed the account on 4 February 2021. Im satisfied that when the agent told Mr P the 
account would remain open Tandem were deviating from their original process. Mr P was 
given the impression that the account would remain open until he spoke to a manager on 
8 February 2021, and he was entitled to rely on that information. Since that isnt what 
happened I think Tandem should pay £50 to compensate Mr P for this failure in customer 
service.
Mr P raised several complaint points which Tandem dealt with together in one final response 
letter. I dont think Mr P was disadvantaged by the way Tandem handled his complaint, so I 
wont be asking them to pay compensation. Mr P received a response to his complaints by 
7 February 2022. I accept Mr P should have got a call back on 8 February 2021. Mr P 
wanted a reason for the account closure. Ive already said that Tandem dont have to give 
Mr P a reason for the closure, and Im satisfied they acted fairly when they decided to close 
Mr Ps account with immediate effect. So, although he was promised a call, the call wouldnt 
have changed the outcome, so I dont think Mr P has suffered a detriment for not receiving a 
call back from a manager.
Technical error
Mr P was told that Tandem had a technical issue which prevented Mr P from accessing the 
funds in his account. Mr P was unhappy that because of a reason outside his control he was 
unable to access his funds.I appreciate Mr P found the whole situation frustrating however as Ive said Tandem were 
entitled to block Mr Ps account whilst they carried out a review. Ive looked to see if the 
technical issue delayed the review or Mr P being able to access the account and Im 
satisfied that it didnt.
I think Tandem were entitled to review the account and they didnt cause any unnecessary 
delay, so I dont think it has done anything wrong. But I do think the explanation Tandem 
gave Mr P was unhelpful. And that Tandem couldve explained things better to Mr P. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that the technical issue didnt delay the review of Mr Ps account.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P has accepted my provisional decision. Tandem have also accepted my provisional 
decision. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead an issue my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr P and Tandem have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind 
and so my provisional findings stand.
I remain of the view that this complaint should be partially upheld for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and direct 
Tandem Bank Limited to pay Mr P £50 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman