DRN-3668877
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was advised by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to take 
out a personal pension plan (PPP) in 1989, instead of joining his employers occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) which he says he was eligible to join at that time. He says that he 
would have been better off joining the OPS and wants to be compensated for any financial 
losses he suffered. 
What happened
Mr M joined an employer in September 1988. That employer was subsequently taken over 
twice and Mr M remained with the various incarnations until early 1994. During his time of 
employment Mr M says he met with NatWest for advice about mortgages, but after 
discussing his pension arrangements agreed to take out a PPP with another provider 
through NatWest, which began in October 1989 with gross monthly contributions of £50.
In 1992 Mr M joined an OPS which was a rebate only scheme in that it only accepted 
national insurance contributions from contracting out of the state earnings related pension 
scheme (SERPS). The contributions were back dated to 6 April 1992.
 
In December 1992 Mr M received a form which asked him to consider options he had 
regarding the previous OPS he had apparently belonged to  which Mr M believed to be a 
SERPS only OPS. A personal account statement dated 31 December 1991 confirmed 
Mr M had belonged to a Contracted Out Money Purchase (COMP) OPS since 
1 November 1988. The plans transfer value was £4,290.99.
 
In April 1993 it was confirmed that Mr M had transferred the benefits he held within the 
COMP to the new rebate only OPS. A more recent statement had shown that £5,537.75 
was transferred into the scheme in 1992 and £1,914.02 had subsequently been received in 
rebate contributions from July 1993 to September 1995. 
From 1994 to 2001 Mr M became self-employed before taking another employed position 
and then switching between self-employed and other employed positions.
In October 2014 Mr M joined his current employers group stakeholder pension scheme. 
 
Mr M says he recently received a pension statement regarding an OPS from a previous 
employer. It noted that he held deferred benefits which would provide a yearly pension of 
£416.40 at his normal retirement age of 65, or a one off lump sum of £14,158.75. He 
thought this might have accrued from an error when he was added to the OPS in 1991 for 
one month. 
But he says when he saw the pension hed accrued, he realised how much better off he 
would have been by joining his OPS in 1989  especially when compared to the PPP he 
held, which he thought had performed poorly. He also thought not being part of the OPS led 
him feeling not being invested in the company, which in turn he says is responsible for his 
long periods of self-employment.
Mr M drew the OPS benefit as a lump sum and continues to contribute to his PPP.  An 
annual statement from 2019 showed that the transfer value of the PPP was £43,210.18. 
So in April 2019 Mr M complained to NatWest about the advice from 1989. He said hed 
been advised against joining the OPS and to take out a PPP  which he thought was in 
NatWests best interests, not his. He said the recent OPS statement hed received 
demonstrated how much better off he would have been if hed joined the scheme instead. 
NatWest said it had forwarded Mr Ms concerns about the performance of his plan and his 
questions around its administration to the PPP provider. But it provided the following 
response points in relation to his complaint about the suitability of its advice:
The evidence would suggest that Mr M did join his employers COMP scheme in 
1988, although this scheme was subsequently wound up. He then transferred the 
fund into a new plan in 1993 along with many of his colleagues at that time. So 
NatWest didnt think its advice to start a PPP prevented Mr M from joining his 
employers OPS. It also said the adviser would have known that Mr M wouldnt have 
been able to contribute to more than one pension scheme at that time, so it 
concluded that he would only have recommended starting the PPP if the OPS had 
already been (or was being) wound up.
It wasnt responsible for the actions Mr M took after 1992 as he didnt involve 
NatWest in deciding his best course of action regarding his new OPS and what to do 
about his PPP contributions. 
His PPP had been invested in the with-profits fund. This didnt offer the facility to 
rebalance his investments as he approached his selected retirement age. And there 
was no evidence to show that NatWest and Mr M had agreed to any ongoing review 
service  so it didnt think it should have done anything further to reduce the volatility 
of Mr Ms PPP investments. 
It was unable to provide a comparative quotation for the same investment into a 
typical savings account.
It apologised for any delay in providing a response to Mr Ms complaint. It said this 
had been caused by number of lines of enquiry it had to make about the original 
OPS. 
Mr M didnt agree and following further discussions with NatWest he decided to bring his 
complaint to us, where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought the 
complaint should be upheld, making the following points in support of his assessment:
There was a lack of information from the time of the advice to draw a comprehensive 
conclusion about what had happened. 
He thought the deferred benefit statement from 2019 showed that an alternative OPS 
did exist when Mr M was given advice by NatWest.
There was no evidence to suggest Mr M wouldnt have been eligible to join the OPS.
He thought Mr M would have joined the OPS until he left its employment in 1994. So 
he said NatWest should carry out a calculation in line with the regulators review 
guidance.    
 
NatWest didnt agree. It thought there had been some confusion about the timeline of events 
from 1988 onwards and set out what it believed had happened:
The facts would suggest that Mr M had joined the OPS in 1988 and the scheme had 
received contributions from Mr M and his employer  as well as DSS rebates. 
But, in 1989, Mr M had told its adviser that he didnt have a pension and that a recent 
promotion at work meant he ought to start planning for his future in that respect. The adviser was entitled to rely on what he was told so was unaware of the reality of the 
situation, which was that Mr M was a member of an OPS. 
Mr M made three contributions to his PPP but then stopped for seven months until 
resuming payments in August 1990. No reason was given for this temporary 
cessation.
Thereafter Mr M decided to transfer his OPS benefits into a new rebate only scheme, 
which NatWest didnt think from experience was uncommon at that time. 
It thought the 2019 deferred benefit statement showed that its advice in 1989 didnt 
stop Mr M being a member of the OPS. It hadnt been able to find out anything 
further about the scope of Mr Ms other OPS membership  although it noted his 
suggestion that his membership had been for one month added in error. It thought 
there was little evidence to support that idea.
It thought therefore that the original COMP scheme was the only one available to 
Mr M at the time of its advice. It believed that, as Mr M was already a member of the 
scheme it hadnt prevented him joining  and also believed it acted upon the 
information he gave it, which was why it recommended making contributions to the 
PPP. 
Following this new information, the investigator changed his view and said he thought the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that hed been presented with new evidence by 
NatWest which showed that Mr M had been a member of an OPS at the time he accepted 
NatWests recommendation to start a PPP. He said the evidence showed that both Mr M and 
his employer had made contributions to the OPS  so he didnt think NatWest prevented 
Mr M from joining the OPS at the time, or that there was an alternative OPS available.  
Mr M didnt accept the change in direction. He thought his membership of the COMP was 
simply for the DSS rebates, so he thought he did have an OPS available to him at the time of 
the advice and should have been advised to join (or stay with) his OPS. He though NatWest 
had used his evidence about the other pension he was due to receive from membership of 
an earlier OPS to muddy the waters and avoid its obligations to him. 
The investigator demonstrated that Mr M had contributed over £1,100 to the COMP scheme 
and his employer twice as much  so he thought that showed Mr M had access to an OPS, 
had joined, and had made significant contributions.  But Mr M said this demonstrated how 
unsuitable NatWests advice had been, as his PPP contributions would have made a 
significant difference if redirected to the OPS. 
After further communications Mr M didnt accept the outcome and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review. Mr M made the following 
points in his final submission:
He was sure that the OPS he joined was a rebate only COMP scheme. He said he 
didnt make any contributions to that plan mainly because he couldnt afford to.
The investigator had suggested he hadnt lost out because of the other OPS benefit 
he was due to receive. He felt this had counted against his main complaint. 
He thought if wed made a decision on the balance of probability then it should have 
favoured him, and not NatWest, who he thought had a record of mis selling pensions 
during this time. 
He initially met with Nat West to discuss mortgages. If hed known he belonged to an 
OPS at that time he would have told NatWest when it asked him about his pension 
planning. We had already confirmed it wasnt possible to hold two pensions at that 
time. 
He thought that the lack of available records from the time was protecting NatWests 
position here. He said that he hadnt lost or destroyed any documentation from the time because he never received it. But he thought NatWest should have retained the 
documentation which would have been able to resolve and explain this situation.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. I made the 
following points in support of my decision:
The evidence Id seen showed that Mr M had made contributions of £724.34 to the 
original COMP scheme and suggested that he belonged to the scheme  and 
continued to make contributions until it was wound up. 
A personal account statement of his service from December 1991 noted that he had 
joined the scheme in 1988. Looking at his contributions from April 1990 to 
December 1991 it was possible to calculate that the total contributions hed made 
broadly correlated with membership of the scheme from November 1988.
This suggested that, although Mr M was of the view that the scheme only accepted 
DSS contributions and that he couldnt afford to join the scheme, it had in fact 
accepted monetary contributions from him and his employer  so he had been a 
contributing member of that OPS.
I had considered that, in light of the numerous takeovers and mergers of his 
company, there might have been another scheme available. But I thought it was 
unlikely that an employer would offer two schemes concurrently and in any case I 
hadnt been presented with any evidence to show another scheme existed.
It was clear that Mr M had joined his employers COMP OPS in late 1988 and so that 
didnt support Mr Ms claim that hed been told not to join the OPS by NatWest.
In 1992 Mr M transferred the benefits from scheme  around £5,500  to a new 
rebate only OPS. But he didnt take advice from NatWest at this point, or anytime 
thereafter  so NatWest wasnt able to mitigate the position. 
I did consider the suitability of NatWests advice to take out the PPP in 1989. There 
wasnt any point of sale documentation to confirm what discussion may have taken 
place, but I thought that NatWest was entitled to rely on the information it was 
provided with at the time  which was that Mr M wasnt a member of an OPS. This 
was consistent with what Mr M has subsequently told us. So I didnt think that, based 
on what it knew at the time, NatWests advice had been unsuitable.
But I also considered what ought to have happened if Mr M had told NatWest that he 
did belong to an OPS in 1989. And I thought that in such circumstances NatWest 
wouldnt have been able to continue with a PPP application. 
That would mean that Mr M wouldnt now have a PPP. So when comparing the value 
of his plan, including the tax benefits hes received and the investment growth on his 
funds, its likely that Mr M hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
recommendation. 
Mr M had said that he would have redirected his contributions from the PPP to the 
OPS. But he said that he couldnt afford to join the OPS at the time so I couldnt 
safely say he would have redirected the premiums to the OPS instead of simply 
incorporating them in his everyday spending.
But it was also unlikely that the OPS  which would have required a fixed percentage 
of Mr Ms salary to be paid into his pension, would have given him any scope to pay 
further contributions. It was unlikely that an additional voluntary contribution facility 
would have been available to his COMP OPS. 
I had taken into account the details of the other OPS Mr M had been a member of 
and which provided a level of retirement benefits which led him to make his 
complaint. But it was more likely than not that those benefits emanated from service 
with a different company from 1980 to 1986  so I didnt think that was material to 
this complaint.  Responses to the provisional decision
NatWest had nothing further to add following the provisional decision, but Mr M didnt agree. 
He made the following points in response:
He joined his employer in a junior role and didnt have the financial capacity to join 
the OPS when he was eligible. He recalls that at that time he had to stop a (first) 
payment that was due to be taken from his wages. 
When he met with NatWest some time later to discuss mortgages, he was told that it 
would be in his interests to take out a PPP  which he agreed to do. But he told 
NatWest that he wasnt paying into an OPS although he had the option of doing so.
Subsequently his employer, like many at the time, was keen to outsource its pension 
scheme. It then offered a rebate only (DSS contributions) scheme but this had no 
connection to the original COMP scheme.
Thereafter the employer was broken up and he qualified for a different OPS. This 
also had nothing to do with the original COMP scheme.
In his view NatWest had sold him an unsuitable PPP. But, having destroyed all its 
point of sale records, it had now concluded that it wasnt wrong to recommend the 
plan. NatWest had originally said it didnt prevent him from joining an OPS but has 
now stated that he was wrong in not informing it that he did have eligibility for the 
OPS. 
He believed he had demonstrated honesty and openness throughout his submissions 
and that he had suffered a financial loss as a result of NatWests actions. He also 
thought that NatWest had been obstructive and uncaring and thought we should 
conclude that his best interests havent been met in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, after carefully consideration of Mr Ms response, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I understand how strongly Mr M feels about this matter, 
and that he thinks he has suffered a financial loss by being advised to take out a plan that he 
doesnt believe was in his best interests. But the evidence doesnt support Mr Ms claim that 
he was sold an unsuitable plan for his circumstances or that he was prevented from joining 
his employers OPS at the time  so Ill explain my reasons.
In his complaint form Mr M states that NatWest advised him to take out a PPP as opposed to 
him joining his OPS. So Ive begun by looking at his circumstances before and at the time of 
NatWests advice.
The original OPS 
Mr M has been consistent in his view that he didnt join his employers OPS when he became 
eligible because he simply couldnt afford to. He says he even had to speak to the HR 
department to get a refund of one payment that was taken from his wages when he was put 
into the scheme. 
But the evidence Ive been provided with doesnt support Mr Ms claim. Ive seen a copy of 
an account statement which shows Mr Ms service in the Plessey COMP scheme as of 31 December 1991. The statement shows that Mr M joined the scheme on 
1 November 1988 - which is before the date he met with NatWest. It also shows that he had 
paid £724.34 into the scheme since inception, alongside contributions of £1,376.28 from his 
employer. £1,373.72 came from DSS contributions. This gave a transfer value of £4,290.99 
at that time.
So this would support Mr Ms claim that he was contracted out through the scheme but it 
also demonstrated that he  and his employer  made contributions as members of the 
OPS. I know Mr M says he didnt join the scheme because of affordability but the evidence 
Ive seen would suggest otherwise. The evidence supports the idea that Mr M belonged to 
the COMP scheme from November 1988 and that he continued to make contributions to the 
scheme until it was eventually wound up. 
It isnt now possible to have sight of the documents from the OPS to confirm full details of 
the membership. But, on balance, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen, that Mr M did 
belong to the COMP OPS and that the scheme went beyond the scope of Mr Ms belief that 
it only accepted DSS contributions.
I also looked at whether it was possible for Mr M to have been able to join another OPS at 
the time. But as the COMP scheme offered tangible retirement benefits beyond those 
available from contracted out contributions, there would have been little point in the 
employer offering another OPS. And the extra administrative costs involved in an alternative 
scheme would have made little sense at the time. But in any case, I havent been provided 
with any evidence of another scheme being available to Mr M at that point. 
So when Mr M met with NatWest in 1989, he was, based on the evidence available, already 
a member of an OPS. This wouldnt support Mr Ms view that he was prevented from joining 
the scheme by NatWest as he was already a member.
NatWests advice from 1989 and Mr Ms subsequent pension scheme membership
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Mr M belonged to his employers OPS when he met 
with NatWest to discuss mortgage planning in 1989. But Ive still considered whether 
NatWests advice was suitable. 
Mr M says that, during their meeting in 1989, NatWest introduced the discussion about 
pension planning and, as hed moved to a better position at work and trusted NatWests 
advice, he agreed to take out a PPP. In his recent submission Mr M said that he told 
NatWest he hadnt joined his employers OPS but one was available to him. I dont dispute 
what Mr M says he told NatWest, but NatWest would have had to advise Mr M to join the 
OPS if it were told he was eligible to join one. So I think its more likely than not that Mr M 
told NatWest that he didnt belong to an OPS and it relied upon that information as 
justification for its recommendation to take out the PPP. 
I think its also likely NatWest would have had to declare that Mr M didnt have an OPS 
available to him in its PPP application form. 
So I think it would have recommended the PPP in good faith and based on the premise that 
Mr M didnt belong to or wasnt eligible to belong to an OPS. On that basis I dont think I 
cant safely say its advice was unsuitable, as it would seem that Mr M didnt have any 
retirement provision in place at the time (according to the information he disclosed) and 
therefore he would have needed to consider putting something in place based on his 
situation. I note theres no documented evidence to show what was discussed during the 
meeting in 1989, so I have had to draw my conclusion based on the balance of probability, 
and I know Mr M has previously said that any balance of probability finding should be in his favour. But I think NatWest did make its recommendation on the basis of what it was told 
and knew at the time and I dont think I can now say that advice was unsuitable.   
In September 1989 Mr Ms employer was taken over and the groups assets were spilt. More 
mergers and takeover occurred in the ensuing years  which has made it difficult to trace the 
origins of Mr Ms OPS membership. But I have been provided with evidence to show that his 
benefits from the COMP OPS were transferred to another rebate only OPS in 1992. The 
value of the transfer was £5,500, which doesnt seem an unreasonable figure given the 
transfer value I noted above from 1991. But in any case, Mr M didnt take advice from 
NatWest regarding that transfer nor did he seek further advice around continuing his PPP 
premiums. So I cant reasonably say that NatWest was in a position to mitigate or amend its 
earlier advice or to give Mr M further advice about his retirement position after these 
changes in Mr Ms circumstances. 
But even if I conclude that NatWests advice was suitable and that it didnt prevent Mr M 
from joining an OPS when he met with it in 1989, I cant ignore the fact that Mr M was 
actually part of an OPS when NatWest made its recommendation. So I have to consider the 
consequence of that situation and look at what should have happened if NatWest had given 
Mr M advice based on his actual circumstances in 1989. 
What should have happened?
The evidence Ive been provided with is clear in demonstrating that Mr M was a member of a 
COMP OPS in 1988 and that he was making contributions to that scheme. So if that 
situation had been confirmed when Mr M met with NatWest in 1989 a PPP shouldnt have 
been recommended. Thats because, as Mr M has rightly pointed out, it wasnt possible to 
contribute to both an OPS and a PPP at the same time. So NatWests recommendation 
would have needed to be to tell Mr M to continue with his membership of the OPS. 
It follows therefore that if Mr M were now in the position he ought to have been with the 
benefit of that advice, he would have retained his OPS benefits  which were eventually 
transferred elsewhere and should be available to him at some point, and he wouldnt have 
had the PPP. So looking at the situation Mr M is now in, he holds a PPP worth over £43,000 
 based on the last valuation Ive seen, which has grown with investment returns and the 
addition of tax relief. And I think there would have been periods of self employment when 
Mr M would have been eligible to contribute to the PPP as well.
I think its more likely than not that the value of the PPP is greater than a comparison of the 
money having remained in his bank account  and possibly having been spent on everyday 
expenditure.  So I dont think Mr M has suffered a financial loss from holding the PPP.
Mr M did suggest that he would have directed the PPP contributions to his OPS instead 
which would have benefitted him financially. But Mr M has already told us that he didnt 
become a member of his OPS because he couldnt afford it. So it would seem unlikely to me 
that he would have been willing to make further contributions to his OPS, if hed discovered 
that he was already contributing. In addition, I think the COMP OPS, like most schemes at 
the time, would have taken a fixed contribution from Mr M towards his OPS plan. 
I dont think it would have had the scope to allow Mr M to make further payments and I dont 
think it would have offered an Additional Voluntary Contribution facility either. So I think if 
Mr M had confirmed his OPS membership to NatWest, it was unlikely he would have then 
redirected  or been able to redirect - the proposed PPP premiums to the OPS.  
The OPS which led Mr M to complain about NatWests adviceMr Ms complaint stemmed from a pension statement that he received from another OPS. It 
showed that he was due an annual pension of £416.40 or a one off lump of £14,158.75 from 
what he originally thought was a relatively insignificant source. He subsequently thought the 
pension may have come from service in another OPS from 1980 to 1986. But in any case, 
Mr M thought the statement demonstrated the benefits of an OPS and what he might have 
got had he belonged to an OPS from 1989 instead of being advised to take out a PPP.
Ive already explained above that Mr M did belong to an OPS in 1988 but I have taken into 
account his submission about the other OPS statement. But Mr M has been inconsistent in 
his explanation of which OPS had provided the benefits above. I think the suggestion that it 
came from six years separate service is more compelling and would explain the size of the 
pension and lump sum.  But in any case, it relates to a period of service before he joined his 
new employer in 1988 and before he met with NatWest. So although the statement provided 
Mr M with a benchmark to demonstrate his complaint, I dont think its materially important to 
this complaint. 
So I think its worth outlining what may have happened for Mr M to receive a somewhat 
unexpected additional pension benefit, but I dont its relevant to this complaint.
summary
I can understand Mr Ms frustrations here, and why he thought an OPS must have been 
available to him as his best option when he met NatWest. But the evidence Ive been 
provided with shows that Mr M was contributing to an OPS at that time and hadnt been 
prevented from joining the scheme when he took out a PPP through NatWest.
And while its clear he shouldnt have held an OPS and a PPP at the same time I dont think 
he has subsequently suffered a financial loss because of this. And I dont think NatWests 
original advice, based on what it was told about Mr Ms situation, was unsuitable.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman