DRN-2337100
The complaint
Mr K complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has made incorrect 
reports to a credit reference agency about his loan and this is preventing him getting a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr K had a loan with Tesco. It fell into arrears in August 2019. A formal demand was sent on 
12 December 2019, for payment of £346.84. On 14 January 2020, Mr K made a payment to 
clear the full arrears balance in agreement that default and termination action would not be 
taken. Despite this, a system error meant a default was applied to Mr Ks credit file. Tesco 
agreed this shouldnt have happened, and so agreed to remove the default and 
compensated Mr K £250. 
There was then an issue with submitting the correct information to the credit reference 
agency and so the credit file wasnt corrected until 2 April 2020. As a result, Tesco paid a 
further £150 (made up of two separate payments) to Mr K. 
In May 2020, there was a further error which resulted in the default being reapplied. For this 
error, Mr K was compensated £500 and the default was again removed. 
All these errors happened as he was trying to get a mortgage and Mr K was afraid, he would 
lose the house he was hoping to buy. In the end he paid off the loan and was able to buy the 
house. 
The investigator felt Tescos response to its errors was fair and so she didnt recommend 
upholding the complaint.
Mr K didnt agree he said he felt because of what Tesco did he could have lost everything. 
Although he managed to buy the house, he had originally planned to buy, at times he felt like 
hed lost his dream house, there were also times when he felt he and his wife would split up 
as a result of the stress and he almost lost his job too. Mr K feels that Tesco stung him on 
the price of the early settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted by both parties that Tesco made repeated mistakes regarding the reporting of 
the loan to a credit reference agency. What isnt agreed is how much compensation should 
be paid to Mr K for this. In total Tesco has paid Mr K £900.
Mr K has explained that the whole period was very stressful for him and his family. He nearly 
lost the house he wanted to buy, his marriage and his job. Im really pleased to hear that 
none of this happened and he and his family now have the house they wanted. Whilst I 
appreciate it was very stressful at the time, I think £900 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience.
Although Mr K says that Tesco stung me on the price of the early settlement I havent seen 
any evidence that he was asked to pay too much when he repaid the loan and Mr K hasnt 
said why he thinks the settlement figure was wrong. I am therefore not upholding that part of 
the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman