DRN-3263738
The complaint
Mrs P is complaining Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIL) declined a claim she made on 
her car insurance policy for the theft of her car.
What happened
Mrs Ps car was stolen so she contacted AIL to claim for the loss on her car insurance policy. 
However AIL subsequently declined the claim because she didnt contact the tracking 
company within four hours of being aware the car had been stolen  which was a 
requirement under the terms of the insurance policy.
Mrs P didnt think AILs decision to decline the claim was fair. She didnt think contacting the 
tracking company would have made a difference as she thinks the thieves would have 
deactivated the tracking device on the car before taking it. She said the tracking app didnt 
alert her to the theft which it would do if an unauthorised key was used to steal the car. And 
she highlighted the app notified her of the theft when the car had been stolen previously.
She thinks this supports the fact the tracking device was deactivated. She also said it wasnt 
possible to contact the tracking company as they werent talking calls because of Covid-19. 
She said shed subsequently tried to contact the tracking company but had had great 
difficulties in doing so. She also said she didnt have the app downloaded.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Its not disputed the insurance policy required Mrs P to notify the tracking company of the 
cars theft within four hours of becoming aware of it and AIL can decline the claim if she 
didnt do so. Mrs P didnt report the theft in time, so under the terms of the policy AIL can 
decline the claim. But I need to think about whether this is fair.
Ive first thought about whether AIL did enough to explain to Mrs P that she needed to report 
the theft to the tracking company. Its common practice for insurers to highlight significant 
and unusual terms in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). Page two of this 
document sets out:
If a tracking device is required (indicated by policy endorsement), or, you declare that your 
vehicle is fitted with an approved tracking/satellite device, we will not supply cover under 
Section 2 of your policy in respect of Theft or Attempted Theft unless a copy of the 
installation certificate is sent to us on submission of a claim, the device was activated at the 
time of the loss, all subscriptions are paid and up to date, and, the tracking/satellite device is 
notified within four hours of the discovery of the loss.
Im satisfied that this exclusion was brought to Mrs Ps attention when she first took the
policy out.
Ive now thought about whether it was fair for AIL to decline the claim on the basis Mrs P 
didnt report the theft in time. Insurers arent allowed to unreasonably decline a claim and a 
key consideration in respect to this is whether a breach of a condition or exclusion wouldnt 
have made a difference to the loss. And this is the crux of this complaint  would AIL have 
still suffered the loss in having to settle the claim had Mrs P reported the theft in time. 
Its not unusual for insurers to include such a condition when insuring high-value cars. And 
its not unreasonable they do so because the presence of a tracker has the potential to 
reduce their potential outlay. Ultimately Mrs P has breached a condition of the insurance 
policy. So its for Mrs P to show that the car still wouldnt have been recovered had she 
reported the theft in time  its not for AIL to show it would have been recovered.
Mrs P has highlighted shed had difficulty in contacting the tracking company and didnt have 
the app installed. But it was her requirement to report the theft and I cant say this is a fair 
reason to not report it. Further to this, her daughter  the last user of the car  did have the 
app installed. So she could have contacted the tracking company through the app.
Im afraid I have to agree with AIL that, just because the app wasnt notified of the theft, it 
doesnt mean the tracking device wasnt active and correctly functioning. There are ways for 
thieves to take a car without having to use a different key. There are devices that make the 
car think its being driven with the main key when its not. It also could have been taken away 
without a key.
The car had been stolen on two previous occasions and both times recovered. In particular 
Im conscious the second time the car was stolen the tracking company was able to track the 
car to a location. Mrs P has told us that the car was gone by this point. But I cant ignore that 
the tracking company was able to track it. So I have to say its possible the tracking company 
could have been able to track the car in this case if notified swiftly.
I note Mrs P has said the police told her that thieves have devices that block trackers. And I 
dont dispute this is a possibility. So it is, of course, possible that the tracking company may 
not have been able to track the car or that it was found. But I cant say that theres enough 
for me to say it wouldnt have been able to track it.
Ultimately, I have to conclude that its possible the car could have been recovered had Mrs P 
reported the theft to the tracking company. And this is the reason why insurers insist 
policyholders quickly report thefts to tracking companies. So, while I naturally sympathise 
with Mrs P for the situation shes found herself in, I cant say AIL acted unfairly in declining 
this claim.
Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision and, in summary, she raised the following points:
Her daughter immediately reported the theft to the police as soon as she became aware 
the car had been stolen. She says the police informed her that her model of vehicle was 
being strategically target by criminal gangs and the thieves had sophisticated equipment 
that enable them to easily disable the alarm and the tracking system before they take the 
car, which she says is what resulted in the signal being lost. And she said her daughter 
had no reason to not trust what she was told. So she didnt think there was any reason to 
contact the tracking company.
She says, after reporting the incident to the police, her daughter immediately contacted 
the broker. As her daughter wasnt the policyholder she didnt have access to the policy 
documents at that time. She says the broker took down the details of the incident, but 
didnt set out the requirement to report the theft to the tracking company within four 
hours. She said her daughter had no knowledge of this requirement and honestly 
believed she had acted correctly in the same way that she had on the two previous 
thefts. She says she later found out that the broker wasnt aware of this condition.
She says this condition should have been highlighted to her before she took out the 
insurance policy, but she doesnt think it was.She highlighted that with the first two thefts she was alerted by the tracking company. On 
the first theft the car was abandoned a few minutes from where it was stolen as it ran out 
of petrol. On the second theft the tracking company alerted her of the cars location. She 
said the police responded quickly, but by the time they reached the location the car was 
no longer there. And she said the tracker had been disabled in that short window of 
opportunity. 
She didnt agree with me that it was possible the police could have used the tracker to 
trace the car as she believes the polices assessment that the signal was lost because 
the thieves disabled the tracker. She thinks its unlikely the thieves would have driven 
around with the tracker active when they would have had tools to disable it.
She said her broker had told her it was unaware of other insurers who have a 
requirement to inform the tracking company of a theft as a condition of the insurance 
policy. She said she carried out her own research which she said supported the brokers 
statement.
She said this matter had also had a significant impact on her daughters mental health, 
not only because of the incident itself but also because of how the claim has been 
handled.
AIL didnt comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mrs P has raised in response to my provisional decision but 
Ive still come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. I also dont think 
shes raised anything materially new to what she raised before.
I understand and have considered her statement about what the policy told her daughter. 
And I do not dispute that it is possible the thieves disabled the tracker which is why the app 
didnt register the theft. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I think there are other 
reasons and methods of theft that wouldnt result in the app registering the theft, but the 
tracking device would still have been active.
I note what Mrs P has said that her daughter wouldnt have known what the policy said and it 
was reasonable to trust the polices advice. But, ultimately, the condition of the policy is clear 
 Mrs P needed to notify the tracking company within four hours of the car being stolen  
and she didnt do so. As I said before, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIL to include 
such a term and to be able to rely on it. So, for me to uphold this complaint, Id have to be 
satisfied that notifying the tracking company would have had no difference to the loss. For all 
the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, I cannot say that was the case. It is, of 
course, possible it wouldnt have made a difference, but at the same time I cant say it 
wouldnt have made a difference. So, for this reason, I cant say it was unfair for AIL to 
decline the claim based on this breach of condition.
I note Mrs P says the clause needed to be highlighted to her before the contract was taken 
out. Ultimately, as she took this policy out through a broker, it was the brokers responsibility 
to highlight significant and unusual terms. That said, as I set out in my provisional decision 
its common practice for insurers to highlight significant and unusual terms in an IPID. And 
AIL did highlight this condition in its IPID document. So it did take steps to highlight this term 
outside of the terms of the insurance policy. If Mrs P doesnt believe she received this 
document, she will have to raise this with her broker. Further to this, if Mrs P thinks the 
broker should have given her daughter clearer information when she first notified it of the 
theft, she would need to raise this with the broker too.I do not dispute that this matter will have had a significant impact on Mrs P and her daughter 
and I naturally sympathise with the situation theyve found themselves in. But, ultimately, I 
cant say AIL has acted unfairly in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman