DRN-3313332
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans provided him with a loan he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday issued a loan for £1,500 to Mr P on 10 September 2019, repayable over 18 
months at £133 a month. The loan was paid up in September 2020.
Mr P approached Everyday for the loan to pay off some payday loans and to buy new tyres 
for his car. But he says he couldnt afford to pay the loan instalments and got into further 
debt paying it off.
Everyday said that its application process was to review Mr Ps application and to carry out 
the following checks:
Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customer's primary 
bank account
Obtaining and reviewing one month's payslip
Conducting a Credit Search
Carrying out a job check  
It used ONS (Office of National Statistics) data to calculate his living expenses. It calculated 
that he had a monthly disposable income of around £103 after paying his living expenses 
and credit commitments. It therefore assessed that the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator assessed that Mr P was already paying a significant amount of his income to 
pay loans and credit cards, and was near the limit on most of his accounts. She assessed 
that the loans were unaffordable to Mr P, so Everyday shouldnt have lent the money to him. 
She proposed that it repay all the interest and charges paid by Mr P on the loan.
Everyday disagreed and said that the repayment of the payday loans hadnt been taken into 
account. When it did take those into account and added a higher income figure which Mr P 
had declared in branch, it assessed that Mr P had a disposable income of around £556 so it 
was clearly affordable.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mr P had a significant amount of loans and credit cards which he was paying instalments on. 
In particular he had default balances on a loan for £1,461 and a credit card for £363. He had 
a historic delinquent balance on a loan. He had taken out four payday loans in the three 
months before the loan was approved. He had also taken out two other high cost loans and 
was near the limit on his credit card. On the other hand he had only a small liability for 
accommodation. But on Everydays own affordability assessment, Mr P had credit 
commitments of £1,138 against his income of £1,970, about 58%. I think that this was likely 
to be unmanageable.
Everyday says Mr P was paying off some payday loans, which made its loan affordable. I 
havent seen evidence that Mr P paid off those loans, but Ive noted that he wanted the loan 
both to pay off some loans and to buy new tyres. Everyday has assessed that the loan repayments would have added around £281 to Mr Ps disposable income. It has also used a 
higher income figure.
I think the figure for income can only be assessed from Mr Ps payslip, apart from an £80 
accommodation charge. But even if I were to take into account the full amount of the payday 
loans in the overall figure, this doesnt take away the fact that Mr Ps credit commitments 
would have been over 50% of his income. And the pounds and pence affordability doesnt in 
my view show the whole picture.
I think that Everyday carried out proportionate checks. But I think that it didnt react 
appropriately to what it discovered in those checks. Taking into account that Everyday didnt 
require Mr P to pay off the loans, his high credit liability, and his delinquent accounts, I dont 
think Everyday made a fair lending decision. 
Putting things right
As to what the appropriate remedy is, Mr P has had the benefit of the loan and its fair that 
he should pay back the capital sum. But I think Everyday should refund the interest and any 
charges.
Everyday should:
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on the loan.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date(s)
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.*
remove any negative information if appropriate about the loan from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide the remedy 
set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman