DRN-2910268
The complaint
Miss M complains about the decision by Unum Limited to turn down her income 
protection claim.
What happened
Miss M is a member of her employers income protection policy. The policy provides an 
income in the event Miss M cant work in her role because of illness or injury. The policy 
has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In May 2019, Miss M reduced her hours due to headaches. In the following months she 
also had fatigue and gynaecological pain. In December 2019, Miss M then completely 
stopped work due to these symptoms.
After stopping work, Miss M submitted a claim to Unum. After considering all the 
medical evidence, Unum turned down the claim because it didnt think Miss M met the 
policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Miss M brought a complaint to this 
service.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 June 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy defines incapacity as:
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of their insured occupation 
because of illness or injury.
For the claim to be paid, Miss M needs to show that she was unable to work in her 
role throughout the deferred period because of illness or injury. The deferred period 
was 4 December 2019 to 3 June 2020. Ive therefore considered the medical 
evidence throughout this period, and referred to some of that evidence below.
In January 2020, Miss M was reviewed by Dr C (occupational health physician). Dr C 
commented on Miss Ms physical symptoms, as well as psychological. She didnt think 
Miss M could return to work until at least the conclusion of her medical certificate in early 
February. And she said that whether Miss M would be able to at that point would depend 
on how quickly her symptoms progressed over the coming month.
At the end of January 2020, Dr S (chartered psychologist) noted that Miss M thought 
she would benefit from a little more time away from work to enable her to fully benefit 
from switching off, and Dr S confirmed that she agreed with this.
In February 2020, Miss M met with Dr G (consultant physician). He noted that since being 
off work, Miss Ms fatigue symptoms had improved because she was able to sleep longer, 
and when she chose.
Also in February 2020, Miss M met with Dr S again. Dr S said theyd discussed her 
returning to work the following week, but she thought it would be beneficial for Miss M to 
take a further two weeks off work. She also noted that Miss M was still experiencing 
excessive painful gynaecological symptoms, which impacted her mood and sleep.
Then in March 2020, Miss M was reviewed again by Dr C. Dr C said that Miss Ms main 
physical symptoms which impacted on her function were related to her gynaecological 
condition, as well as fatigue, headaches, some dizziness and some gastrointestinal 
upset. Miss M had advised Dr C that her gynaecological symptoms were worse than 
when theyd spoken in January 2020.
Dr C noted that Miss Ms desire to improve and return to work was extremely strong, but 
she thought Miss M was somewhat fragile both physically and psychologically. Dr C didnt 
think Miss M was sufficiently robust or resilient enough to cope with work at that time, 
without a significant risk of further deterioration to her health.
Due to Miss Ms continuing gynaecological problems, she was referred to Mr K 
(consultant gynaecologist). He reviewed Miss M in March 2020 (though didnt meet her in 
person) and suspected she had endometriosis. He noted that her gynaecological pain 
was sometimes so intense she may struggle to stand or sit upright during that time.
Also in March 2020, Miss M was reviewed by Dr G again, who noted that her 
gynaecological symptoms continued to trouble her.
In May 2020, Miss M had a further review with Dr C. She thought that Miss M remained 
unfit for work, and needed greater medical certainty regarding the underlying diagnosis, 
potential treatments and therefore the return of functional capacity before being able to 
have detailed discussions regarding returning to work.
Also in May 2020, Miss Ms GP referred her to a homeopath and a chiropractor to help 
her with pelvic pain.
In early June 2020, Miss M was reviewed by Dr K (consultant in diabetes and 
endocrinology). He noted that Miss M continued to experience pain, and thought it was 
important for her to see Mr K in person to explore the possibility of endometriosis 
underlying her symptomology.
A few weeks after the deferred period had ended, Mr K examined Miss M. He said that 
she suffered from pain and abnormal bleeding, and that this affected her quite 
significantly. Mr K thought there was 60-70% chance that Miss M had endometriosis. He 
also said that he and Miss M had discussed her significant fatigue which had been going 
on for a long time. He noted that she had low ferritin levels which could be a factor, but 
also said that endometriosis is a recognised factor that can cause extreme fatigue in 
some women. Mr K said that Miss M wasnt keen on surgery and that it was perfectly 
reasonable for her to want to try everything else first. And that she had had pelvic floor 
physio and also worked with a chiropractor.
In July 2020, Dr S provided further clarification about Miss Ms symptoms. She said shed 
been providing psychological therapy to Miss M since August 2019, and that when Dr S 
first met Miss M, she thought it was clear that Miss M was heading towards a breakdown. 
Dr D said that Miss M was in a constant state of fatigue and clearly depressed. She also 
said that Miss Ms health remained a constant source of worry and anxiety for her, as she 
was experiencing a range of severe physical symptoms that have marked restrictions in 
daily living and in maintaining concentration. Dr S concluded by saying that in July 2020, 
Miss M was still experiencing moderately severe depression, and that she was unfit for 
work.In October 2020, Dr G explained that Miss M had been his patient since February 2020. 
He said that she had suffered with multiple symptoms which were under investigation. He 
said that, because of her symptoms, it was his view that Miss M wouldnt have been able 
to work.
After Miss M brought her complaint to this service, she provided further information from 
Dr J (consultant endocrinologist), as thered been an update on her diagnosis. Dr J 
confirmed he had diagnosed Miss M with post-viral fatigue syndrome based on her 
immunology blood results. He said that hed seen some of Miss Ms medical records 
during her initial period of absence from work, and that those records and many of Miss 
Ms symptoms were consistent with that diagnosis. Dr J said he thought Miss Ms GP and 
occupational health physician had made the correct decision regarding her capacity to 
work.
We also asked Dr S and Dr G for more information about how Miss Ms symptoms 
impacted her ability to work.
Dr S confirmed she started seeing Miss M in August 2019 and has continued treating her 
since that time. She said it was her professional opinion that Miss M was unable to work 
throughout December 2019 to June 2020, and onwards, and remains incapacitated. Dr S 
explained that when Miss M stopped work in December 2019, she was suffering from 
severe anxiety and depression, work-related burnout and panic attacks, and that it was 
apparent to Dr S that Miss M wasnt in a mentally fit state to work. Dr S also said that Miss 
M was suffering from: - extreme fatigue; brain fog; struggling to concentrate; struggled to 
cope with normal day-to-day working situations due to high levels of anxiety/depression; 
experienced excessive crying; and had panic attacks. She also said Miss M was sleeping 
for very long periods of time due to extreme fatigue. Dr S thought that these psychological 
symptoms, either alone or in combination with Miss Ms other physical symptoms, 
prevented her from performing her role.
Dr G confirmed that he first assessed Miss M in February 2020, and that she was unfit to 
work because of her complex symptoms, which included fatigue, frequent migraine, 
anxiety and depression, gynaecological problems, amongst a number of others. He said 
he suspected in February 2020 that many of Miss Ms symptoms could be related, and Dr 
J had recently confirmed that to be the case by diagnosing Miss M with post-viral fatigue 
syndrome. Dr G said he thought Miss M was unfit to work from when she was signed off 
because she couldnt meet either the physical or psychological demands of her role.
We shared the new information from Dr J, Dr S, and Dr G with Unum. Whilst Unum 
acknowledged that the doctors opinions were supportive, it thought the letters didnt 
provide sufficient evidence of incapacity under the policy for the deferred period.
I disagree with Unum. Having considered all the medical evidence, I think the claim 
should be paid. Ill explain why.
I appreciate the claim has been complicated by the fact that Miss M experiences a 
number of symptoms, both physical and psychological. Due to this, Miss M saw various 
specialists throughout the deferred period. Although Miss M didnt receive a diagnosis for 
all her symptoms during the deferred period, she was diagnosed with depression and 
continued to report pain and fatigue throughout that time, and received appropriate 
investigations into her symptoms.
Dr S and Dr G (together with Miss Ms GP, and Dr C) thought Miss M couldnt work 
during the deferred period, but they hadnt given much detail about that. It was for that 
reason that we asked Dr S and Dr G to expand upon their previous evidence. Theyve since confirmed the symptoms Miss M was experiencing during the deferred period, and 
that they thought those symptoms prevented her from working.
Overall, I think the medical evidence supports that Miss M couldnt work during the 
deferred period, and therefore the claim should be paid.
Miss M has raised concerns about Unum misquoting medical evidence in its 
correspondence with her employer. Ive looked at that correspondence, but I agree with 
our investigator that it seems Unum was merely summarising the medical evidence that it 
considered to be relevant, and provided its own comments on that evidence. I can of 
course appreciate that it would have been difficult for Miss M to read a summary of her 
health symptoms from Unums perspective, but I dont think Unum did anything wrong 
here.
Miss M is also unhappy with the length of time Unum took to assess her claim. I realise it 
will have been worrying to wait to hear from Unum regarding the outcome of its claims 
decision. Though given that this was quite a complex claim with a significant amount of 
medical evidence to consider, I dont think Unum caused any unnecessary delays in 
dealing with the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I made a final decision. 
Miss M responded to accept my provisional decision, but asked if I could clarify what 
benefit Unum would be required to pay, as well as the specific amount. She also asked if I 
can specify how interest should be calculated, and whether this would be on the whole 
sum or from the date each payment should have been made. 
Miss M also raised concerns about the potential tax implications of receiving a lump sum 
payment in this tax year, and asked if I would order that legal/accountant costs should be 
paid by Unum. Finally, Miss M said that the appeal process has caused her significant 
stress and she has also been without income for a year. Shes asked if I could 
acknowledge this by way of additional compensation.
Unum responded to say it remained of the view that the medical evidence didnt show that 
Miss Ms reported conditions impacted her ability to perform her role. It accepted that the 
recent reports from Dr S and Dr G were supportive, but said that these were dated long 
after the deferred period, so thought it was difficult to put weight on them. It also said they 
were sourced without it being consulted. Finally, Unum said the claim value would exceed 
our maximum limit, which it would apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained I would require Unum to pay any backdated benefit due. This would be in line 
with the policy terms. That means that benefit would be paid from the end of the deferred 
period to the date Unum pays the settlement. I cant require Unum to make future payments, 
though I would only expect Unum to terminate the claim if it has sufficient evidence to 
support that Miss M no longer meets the policy definition of incapacity. If Miss M remains 
incapacitated and Unum is satisfied of that, it should continue paying her benefit in line with 
the policy terms. I can confirm it is for Unum to work out the specific amount due to Miss M since the deferred 
period ended, in line with the policy terms. 
Interest should be calculated from the date each payment was due to be paid. 
As Miss M is a member of a group income protection scheme, that means that benefit is 
taxed. I dont know Miss Ms tax situation, but she may end up being taxed at a higher rate 
due to the lump sum shell receive from Unum for the backdated benefits than she would 
have if shed received the payments each month after the deferred period ended. 
If thats the case, Miss M should let Unum know this. Id expect it to make sure that Miss M is 
put in the financial position she would have been in if the claim payments were paid when 
they shouldve been. In other words, Unum should compensate Miss M directly for any 
additional tax that has to be paid. However, I dont think Miss M would need to employ a tax 
specialist for this, and so I dont require Unum to cover the cost of any tax advice she 
decides to pay for.  
Miss M has said that the appeal process has caused her significant stress. I do acknowledge 
that making a claim can be stressful, though its also the case that she couldve arranged for 
a third party to represent her in making the claim and complaint. I appreciate Miss M was 
without income since stopping work, but I havent seen any evidence that this caused her 
particular distress and/or inconvenience. Ive added interest to the backdated benefit, and 
this recognises that Miss M was without use of the money over that period. I therefore dont 
require Unum to pay additional compensation. 
Whilst Unum doesnt agree with my findings that Miss M met the policy definition of 
incapacity, it hasnt raised any new points that I think I need to address. I remain satisfied 
that the medical evidence supports that she wasnt able to work, and for the same reasons 
as given in my provisional decision. 
Unum has acknowledged that the recent comments from Dr S and Dr G are supportive, but 
says these were obtained long after the deferred period. I accept that, but Dr S and Dr G did 
treat Miss M during the deferred period, and we asked them to expand upon their previous 
comments in order to understand why they thought Miss M couldnt work. Ideally Unum 
should have done that when assessing the claim, but it didnt. To be clear, this service 
doesnt require permission from a financial business before seeking further information or 
clarification from medical specialists.
Our award limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business up to £355,000, plus any interest and costs that I consider appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Limited to accept the claim, 
and pay any backdated benefit due. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple from 
the date the benefit was due to be paid, to the date of settlement*.
If Miss M pays a higher rate of tax as a result of a lump sum payment being made than she 
would have if the claim payments had been paid when they should have, then Unum should 
compensate her directly for this.
*If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman