DRN-1967229
The complaint
Ms P and Mr T have complained about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limiteds (NFUM) handling of a claim against their motor insurance policy.
Mr T is the policyholder and Ms P is a named driver on it. But as Mr T has taken the lead in 
dealing with this complaint, for ease of reading Ill refer to his comments as being in respect 
of both of them.
What happened
NFUM where contacted by insurance agents based abroad saying that Mr Ts car had 
damaged another car when Mr T was on a trip. They provided a photo of Mr Ts car and a 
witness who said hed seen the incident. Mr T said he hadn't been in any driving incident 
while abroad and the claim was fraudulent.
NFUM settled the other drivers claim for the damage to their car. Mr T didn't think that was 
fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
NFUM needed to take any further action. Mr T didn't agree so his complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mr T has made a number of points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T is clearly very cross that NFUM have settled what he considered to be a fraudulent 
claim, without fully investigating it. And given that hes certain that his car wasn't in any sort 
of incident I can understand his strength of feeling. But that doesn't mean that NFUM has 
done anything wrong. 
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, or 
indeed if any such accident took place, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like 
all motor policies, Mr Ts policy allows NFUM to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it 
doesnt require his consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that 
Mr T doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so reasonably.
I accept Mr Ts evidence that he was unaware of his car ever hitting another car. But there is 
persuasive evidence that his car did come into contact with another. It seems that a witness, 
a parking attendant, in the place where Mr T parked said he saw Mr Ts car hit another car. 
The witness took a photo of Mr Ts car before Mr T drove off. The witness signed a 
statement to that effect.
Mr T believes the witness is lying and has made up the story with the collusion of the owner 
of the other car. But theres no supporting evidence of that beyond Mr Ts comments. So I 
can understand why NFUM would have given considerable weight to this independent 
witness evidence. Thats because   apart from Mr Ts statement to the contrary  theres no 
evidence the witness had anything to gain by inventing his version of events.
Further, Mr T had already sold the car by the time NFUM told him of the incident. So NFUM 
wasnt in a position to examine the car itself to see if there was any evidence of an impact.  
Mr T said NFUM could have asked an engineer for a consistency report and hes said the 
ride height of the rear of his car was too high to cause the damage shown on the photos of 
the other car. He said it can't have been the front of his car that hit the other car as the 
witness photo of it doesn't show any damage to Mr Ts car. The witness evidence I've seen 
doesn't say whether it was the front or back of Mr Ts car that hit the other car. And I don't 
think the fact that theres no obvious damage in the photo of Mr Ts car proves it didn't hit the 
other car. That's because the damage to the other car was minor, only costing around £335 
to repair. And I'm aware that the impact zones of modern cars are designed to absorb much 
of the force of impacts to minimise injuries to pedestrians who are hit by cars, and they tend 
to flex back into position. So it's possible that, following a low speed impact when parking, 
Mr Ts car could be left with minimal, if any, visible damage. And the fact Mr T couldn't see 
any obvious damage to his car doesn't prove it didn't hit the other car. 
NFUM had to decide whether to settle the claim or to defend it in court. The most persuasive 
evidence appears to be the independent witness statement. He said he saw Mr Ts car hit 
another. The only evidence to counter his statement is Mr Ts account, supported by Ms P, 
that no such contact took place. And it's clear that having considered the evidence NFUM 
believed that if it took the matter to court it would most likely lose. And defending an action in 
court will inevitably involve additional costs. As NFUM would have to incur the costs of 
instructing lawyers, on top of the additional administrative costs of defending an action would 
bring. So if NFUM had let the matter go to court it could have faced significantly higher costs 
than the costs of settling the claim. And I wouldn't expect an insurer like NFUM to continue 
to defend a case that it reasonably thought it had little chance of winning. So it decided to 
settle the claim, and I think that position was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman