DRN-4197126
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly issued, and 
increased the credit limit on, a credit card to him, on which he couldnt afford the payments.
What happened
Mr P was provided with a credit card by Barclaycard in October 2006, with a credit limit of 
£600. The limit was increased as follows
Date New Limit
May 2013 £1,200
December 2013 £2,400
September 2014 £3,900
April 2015 £7,900
Mr P says he originally took out the above credit card with Barclaycard at 18, when he was 
at university. He said that he had always made the minimum payment and this should have 
been clear before Barclaycard automatically increased his credit limit. As the minimum 
payments increased, so did his monthly outgoings, making it difficult to pay the minimum 
payment. He believes Barclaycard gave him a higher limit than it should have done on 
several occasions over the past years, resulting in him having difficulty making the 
payments. In 2018 he entered into a payment arrangement with Barclaycard. He hasnt been 
able to provide bank statements relating to the time of the application or of any increases. 
He has provided three bank statements from 2016. 
Barclaycard said that due to the length of time since the issue of the card and the limit 
increases it didnt have any records as to its affordability checks. It has produced the 
statements on the account from 2007 onwards. It gave  the following information:
Application approval 2006 it refers to its terms and conditions which set out the checks 
it carries out. It has no other information. It pointed out that before a credit limit increase 
the customer is given the option of refusing it.
May 2013, and December 2013 increases   the statements before these increases 
show the account was managed well. The increases were pre-CONC (Consumer Credit 
sourcebook, set out in the handbook of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) April 2014 
onwards) and was based on the probability of the account defaulting in the ensuing 12 
months. Increases under this model only went ahead if the probability of default is 
determined to be less than 6%, which is calculated by the account management.
September 2014 increase. This increase was after CONC regulations had come into 
effect but was before it was able to implement methods to adhere to CONC regulations. 
The same principles applied.
April 2015 increase. To adhere to CONC regulations it validated customer income and 
affordability of current limits via a leading credit reference agency (CRA). Barclaycard 
wont consider increasing an existing customers credit limit unless they achieve a green 
rating and, at Barclaycards instruction,  the CRA will only apply that status where 
expenditure is less than 90% of a customers income.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence or documents to show that the card and limit increases werent 
affordable.
Mr P didnt agree. He said based on the evidence available from the time of the sale, which 
he has provided which showed he was in  full time education at the time with no fixed 
income. Mr Ps submission is that this  would suggest an element of irresponsible lending on 
behalf of Barclaycard. He believes the statements show how when the limit was increased 
on each occasion, due to his low income at the time, he was constantly reaching the limit of 
my card. He believes Barclaycard should have become aware of this pattern of spending 
when it completed a review of his affordability of an increase in credit limit. There is no 
evidence it carried this out.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, at 
least after April 2014, is set out on our website. For the 2014 and 2015 increases, Ive taken 
that approach into account in considering Mr Ps complaint.
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Barclaycard complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Barclaycard ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ps 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?From 2010 until 2014 the OFT (Office of Fair Trading) provided lending guidance. This is set 
out in the OFTs March 2010 guidance for creditors for irresponsible lending. A lender 
needed to consider the impact of any credit payments on the borrower and not just the 
likelihood of getting their money back.
There was no set list of checks a lender needed to complete. Again the checks should 
have been proportionate to the circumstances in which the credit was provided for each 
loan  which might include considerations about the amount borrowed and the 
customers borrowing history. In 2011 an assessment of creditworthiness also came into 
force in the Consumer Credit Act.
Prior to 2007 the FLA (Finance & Leasing Association) Lending Code 2006 applied. This 
provided that as responsible lenders, they must make sure that all loan applications  go 
through a sound and proper credit assessment. Again there is no set list of checks a lender 
needs to carry out, but it could include credit commitments, ability to repay the credit, how 
the applicant has handled their financial affairs in the past, information from CRAs, the 
results of credit assessment techniques, for example, credit-scoring, income, age and where 
the applicant lives.
Issue of the card October 2006
At the time he applied for the card, Mr P says he was a student and has shown us evidence 
that he received a maintenance loan and a bursary. He says the latter was £1,000 for the 
year, but Ive not seen documentary evidence of that. He was also reliant on parental 
contributions.
I cant assume that Barclaycard carried out no affordability checks. It is only required to 
retain information for six years and as this complaint was made many years after the 
application it's not unreasonable that it has no such information. I have no evidence from 
either party about Mr Ps financial circumstances. I accept that Mr S was a student at the  
time. He was provided with a card with a low limit of £600 which assuming he used it up to 
the limit might mean he should have been paying up to 5% a month  i.e. £30. 
I dont think I can find that providing a credit card to a student was irresponsible, particularly 
as I dont know what income Mr P declared. I understand that Barclaycard does provide 
credit cards to students even now. I note that the limit wasnt increased for seven years. And 
the evidence from the statements suggests that although Mr P had a couple of late 
payments in the early years he maintained the account fairly well.
Mr P says he doesnt think I can say with certainty the issue of the card was responsible. He 
is right but I do have to be satisfied that it was more likely than not that the lending was 
irresponsible. Based on the evidence I have seen, which is very little, Im unable to say the 
provision of the card to Mr  P was irresponsible within the rules that applied at the time.
May 2013 increase to £1,200
Mr P says his salary was £16,000. He was paying each month £500 rent, £30 on a mobile 
phone contract and payments on another credit card. Again he hasnt got any documentary 
evidence of this. From the records of his credit card account it appears that he had been 
maintaining payments on it without any default for several years. The only evidence apart 
from that is Barclaycards assertion that it wouldnt have increased the limit unless it had a 
green rating from the CRA. I have no other evidence. 
On the face of it given Mr Ps minimal credit commitments I cant say this increase was 
unaffordable. Due to the lack of other evidence again I cant say whether this increase was responsibly provided or not. 
December 2013 increase to £2,400
This was a substantial increase, doubling the credit limit. Paragraph 4.2 and 4.3 of the OFTs 
guidance says: 
4.2 We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit, 
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
4.3 The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower: 
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time 
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
Mr P says he was earning around £21,500 and his outgoings were £500 a month in rent, £30 
for a phone contract and payments towards another credit card of around £50 per month. 
However hes not able to provide documentary evidence of this. Again Barclaycard hasnt 
retained the details of its checks, and can only say the credit scoring showed Mr P was 
unlikely to default on the payments. If those were the only checks I would regard that as 
unsatisfactory. As a minimum Barclaycard should have verified Mr Ps income and 
expenditure. 
The credit card statements prior to this increase show that Mr P was keeping well within the 
credit limit and had managed the account well. He paid over the minimum payment each 
month. As Ive said we would regard the ability to afford a monthly payment of 5% of the 
outstanding balance as being able to pay off the account in a reasonable period of time.
Based on what Mr P tells us about his earnings and credit commitments, I cant say from the 
limited information we have that the increase was not affordable. I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence to show whether or not this increase was provided responsibly.
September 2014 increase to £3,900
The CONC rules apply here, but essentially they require the business to carry out similar 
affordability checks. Barclaycard again cant provide details of its checks.
Mr P said his income and outgoings were the same as at the time of the previous credit limit 
increase. And again from his credit card statements he appears to have been managing the 
account well.
Even if I were to assume that Barclaycard didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks, 
I would still need to see evidence the increase was unsustainable. It would be reasonable to 
expect that if he used the whole increase Mr P might be liable to pay a further £75 a month. 
His income hadnt gone up but then neither had his other commitments. And Im conscious 
that there is no documentary evidence of these earnings or commitments. What little 
evidence there is doesnt appear to suggest that Mr P was in financial difficulties. So again, because of the lack of evidence, I cant find that the credit limit here was increased 
irresponsibly.
April 2015 increase to £7900 
This was a very substantial increase. But again neither Mr P nor Barclaycard can provide 
documentary evidence relevant to this period apart from the credit card statements.
On the face of it Mr P could have had to find a further £200 a month with no increase in pay. 
Barclaycard used a CRA to validate his income and check affordability. Again bearing in 
mind the amount of the increase Barclaycard should have carried out a full income and 
expenditure check. But Mr P had still managed the account well and didnt appear, at the 
time, to have any financial problems (from the limited evidence Ive seen). I appreciate that 
Mr Ps statements from 2016 show he was overdarawn and also that he now has a very 
substantial  mortgage, but Ive seen no documentary evidence that his account was 
overdrawn or that he had that mortgage commitment at the time of this increase.
Whilst its possible that Barclaycard didnt carry out sufficient checks on the affordability of 
this increase, I dont have sufficient evidence to show that if it had it would have realised that 
this increase was unsustainable .Im aware that Mr P did get into financial difficulties later but 
I cant be satisfied that it was this increase that caused those difficulties. Again, because of a 
lack of evidence, I cant find that the credit limit here was increased irresponsibly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman