DRN-3407128
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118money.com (Madison), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Madisons records, here are the two loans approved for Mr M.
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
1 2 April 2017 £1,000.00 24 months £99.95 7 June 2017
2 24 June 2017 £1,000.00 24 months £80.50 9 November 2018
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the lending decision was 
fine for loan 1 but felt that Madison should put things right for Mr M in relation to loan 2.
Madison disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision giving reasons why I considered that the complaint should not be 
upheld. The reply date was set as 17 May 2022 and as that has passed and we have heard 
from Madison and Mr Ms representative, I have issued my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Here I have duplicated the findings I made in my provisional decision dated 3 May 2022 and 
it is in smaller type to differentiate it. 
my provisional findings from 3 May 2022
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. I am planning not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and here I give 
reasons why.
Mr M did not disagree with the outcome for loan 1 and so I dont consider this loan to have been in 
dispute when the complaint was passed to me. However, for completeness, looking at the application 
details Mr M gave to Madison, followed by the checks Madison carried out then Id consider that 
proportionate checks were carried out before lending.
And I do not consider that the credit search results Madison obtained about Mr M for loan 1 were 
likely to have given Madison cause for concern. I saw on those result records that
Mr Ms history of repayments may have been poor in relation to a couple of credit agreements, but 
despite that, several other lenders had advanced credit to him and recent repayment records on his 
current credit commitments were good. Mr Ms main reason for his debt was a Hire Purchase (HP) 
agreement he had commenced in October 2016 and the principal seemed to be £7,500 which he was 
repaying at £320 a month. 
The repayment schedule was good and up to date. Other credit agreements were small and/or related 
to low limit credit cards which were just over the limit by a few pounds and not likely to have caused 
Madison a concern. I am planning not to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1. 
Mr Ms application for loan 2 came two weeks after he had repaid loan 1 very early  after two months 
rather than the agreed 24 months. This repayment history would have been noted by Madison and 
would likely have indicated that Mr Ms ability to pay was positive. And so, it would not likely have 
alerted Madison to there being any concerns.Madison carried out similar checks to before and as it was only a couple of months after loan 1 had 
been approved Mr Ms income, expenditure and credit results were much the same.
Madison has pointed out that he had declared for loan 1 that he was living with his parents and it had 
no reason to think that had altered since April 2017. And the address he gave when he applied for 
loan 1 is the same address he has provided to the Financial Ombudsman. So I gather Mr Ms 
accommodation arrangements have not altered.
Mr Ms main debt was that same HP agreement costing him around £320 a month. The other credit 
agreements either were ones close to coming to an end or were the low limit credit cards Madison 
would have seen before.
There was a difference which was that for loan 2 Mr M had applied for a £3,000 loan over 24 months 
and Madison had approved for him a £1,000 loan over 24 months on a lower monthly repayment 
figure to loan 1. So, if anything this shows that Madison considered that as Mr M had coped with 
loan 1 well then the same loan structure again would also have been at a debt level he could cope 
with.
I consider that Madison carried out proportionate checks and I do not consider that the combined 
repayments he had to make to Madison and his other creditors amounted to too much for him to cope 
with. I accept Madisons view that Mr Ms domestic arrangement living with his parents, his existing 
expenditure and current income would have led Madison to arrive at a satisfactory lending decision.
I am planning not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
How did the parties respond? 
Madison agreed with my provisional decision and Mr Ms representative has told us that it 
has not received anything from Mr M which it thinks will change the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Considering this then I see no reason to depart from the findings made in my provisional 
decision and which are repeated here. On the same evidence and for the same reasons I do 
not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman