DRN-2214543
The complaint
 Mr K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motorcycle 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a scooter. For the year from December 2018, he had a policy for it under which 
Ageas was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Ageas, I include claims-
handlers and others for whose actions I hold Ageas responsible.
On 4 November 2019, Mr K was riding on a major road when he had an alarming 
experience. He reported that a car had pulled out in front of him and - as he swerved to 
avoid it - Mr K and his scooter slid along the carriageway. 
Mercifully, he and his bike didnt come into contact with anything other than the road surface. 
The car drove on. Paramedics took Mr K to hospital as a precaution. He reported that his 
bike was only scratched and was fine to use. 
But a highways agency said it had incurred clean-up costs and asked Ageas to pay on Mr 
Ks behalf. Ageas settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. Mr K complained to Ageas 
about how it handled the claim.
Ageas wrote a final response dated 3 July 2020. Unhappy with that, Mr K brought his 
complaint to us in August 2020.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that Ageas acted unfairly in reaching the decision to settle the claim. But he found Ageas 
responsible for not actioning Mr Ks change of address and subsequently sending 
correspondence to his old address. The investigator recommended that Ageas should pay 
Mr K £30.00 in compensation. 
Ageas agreed with the investigators opinion. Mr K disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that its not about the money. He would like 
Ageas to not record the claim on his account.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Almost all motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal 
with a claim from a third party. The effect of such a term is that  on the question of whether 
to settle a third partys claim  the insurers view will prevail over the policyholders.
I will consider whether Ageas acted fairly. Unlike a court we dont hear from witnesses to an 
incident to decide the extent to which anyone was liable.
From what Ive seen, Mr K didnt make a claim for damage to his bike. But it may not be too 
late for him to contact Ageas about that.
The highway agencys contractor contacted Ageas to claim for a call-out charge and clean-
up. It sent a report including photographs of Mr Ks bike and a worker sweeping up what 
appears to be cleaning fluid.
On 26 February 2020, Mr K asked Ageas to note his change of address. I find that it didnt 
do so within a reasonable time. Ageas sent correspondence to his old address. Fortunately, 
Mr K received it. So the incorrect address didnt affect the handling of the claim.
 
Ageas appointed an independent loss adjustor who assessed the claim and advised that it 
was valid. Ageas decided not to incur the costs and risk of a court case. So by mid-March 
2020, Ageas had already agreed in principle to pay the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
I see that on 2 April 2020, Ageas asked Mr K for contact details of his witnesses. Mr K gave 
details for one witness in mid- April. I havent seen any evidence that Ageas contacted the 
witness. But I find it unlikely that the witness wouldve outweighed the contractors report that 
it had attended and done a clean-up.
From a letter in mid-May 2020, I find that Ageas sent Mr K a copy of the contractors report 
and photographs.
Ageas paid £770.00 to settle the claim. I accept that it did that to avoid the costs and risk of 
a court case.
I accept that Ageas decision is likely to have cost Mr K money in terms of his insurance 
premiums for later years. But I dont find that Ageas treated Mr K unfairly by settling the 
claim without prejudice to liability. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas not to 
record the claim against Mr Ks policy.
  
Putting things right
But the incorrect address caused Mr K some extra inconvenience and upset in an already 
difficult situation. He had to repeat his request more than once. I consider that (rather than 
£30.00) £50.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for this distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr K £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman