DRN-2257437
The complaint
Miss E complains about Avivas handling of a subsidence claim she made under her 
buildings insurance policy. She complains of significant delays in starting the repair works. 
For ease, any references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Miss E is represented by Mr H, whos been managing this claim for her. In February 2018 
Miss E had to move out of her home into residential care. Mr H took care of the property and 
noticed some signs of cracking. He notified Aviva in the spring of 2018. 
Aviva arranged for an inspection to take place a towards the end of April. The engineer 
concluded there was evidence of historic subsidence, as identified has having occurred in 
the early 1990s. However, the engineer also felt there was evidence of more recent 
subsidence but, given the property was in the vicinity of historic mining, the relevant authority 
needed to be notified and given the opportunity to carry out deeper investigations. While this 
referral took place a week later, a response declining the claim wasnt received until August 
2018. 
Following this, another inspection was arranged, with a schedule of works devised in the 
new year. When this was shared with Mr H, he raised concerns that it wasnt an accurate 
reflection of what needed to happen in the house. He felt hed been provided with the wrong 
schedule of works. However, eager to progress the claim, he arranged to pay the excess, 
but shared his concerns with Aviva and the contractor. 
In April 2019, Mr H contacted Aviva, looking for an update and he was told the contractor 
was requoting for the works that needed to be carried out. In June, Mr H was told another 
inspection needed to take place. Unhappy with what he perceived to be a lack of progress, 
Mr H made a formal complaint. Mr H said the claim had been significantly delayed and this 
had impacted Miss Es financial circumstances, as theyd hoped to sell the house to fund her 
care. 
Mr H said while the house has remained unsold, Miss E continued to pay her monthly 
insurance premiums and other maintenance costs such as gas, electricity and boiler 
maintenance, as well as a cost to Mr H to visit the property weekly. Mr H expressed concern 
the value of the house was significantly impacted by Avivas failure to get the works 
completed in a reasonable timeframe. 
Aviva responded to Mr Hs complaint in July 2019. It acknowledged there had been 
significant delays in progressing the claim. It offered Miss E £750 in compensation to reflect 
the worry and upset caused. When Mr H declined this offer saying it didnt represent a fair 
outcome as it didnt cover Miss Es costs, Aviva increased it to £1,500. It declined to 
contribute to the care home costs incurred by Miss E because she had already moved out at 
time damage was notified. 
Mr H didnt accept Avivas offer and the complaint was referred to this service. One of our 
investigators considered Avivas handling of the claim but didnt think it needed to do more to 
put thing right. As Mr H didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, I can see this has been a long running complaint and has continued past 
the date of the final response letter from Aviva. It hasnt given us consent to look into whats 
happened beyond the final response letter, so my decision focuses only on the timeframe 
from when the claim was notified until July 2019. 
Its accepted the property is showing evidence of subsidence. And in deciding what I think is 
fair and reasonable, Ive focused on the issue of delays, which lie at the heart of Mr Hs 
concerns. Fundamentally, he considers the claim should have progressed much more 
quickly. 
Aviva accepts and acknowledged this. It has told us when the claim was referred to the 
relevant mining authority, it took just over four months to receive an answer. However, Aviva 
felt more could have been done to press for an answer. 
Aviva has gone on to acknowledge other areas of delays, such as several weeks towards 
the end of 2018 for the scope of works to be drawn up, and delays in waiting for contactor 
costs and start dates. 
Its often the case that subsidence claims are complex and take time to identify the next 
steps and decide how to move forward. So its not unusual to see claims of this nature taking 
a long time to resolve. That being said, its clear from looking through the notes weve been 
provided with there have been significant delays here which were avoidable. 
And in identifying these delays, we need to understand the impact this has on the consumer. 
Mr H has told us that Miss E has been suffering from ill health and had been before she 
moved out of the property. I dont underestimate the impact the worry this matter will have 
caused her.  Mr H has been consistent in saying that Miss E was intending to rely on the 
funds from the sale (or rental) of her home to pay for her care and the fact shed not been 
able to rely on these funds will have been worrying. Mr H says the works should have been 
completed by the time the complaint was raised in June 2019. While I can see it had been 
ongoing for a long time up until that point, I havent seen any clear commitments to Mr H that 
this timeframe would be adhered to. 
Aviva has said the policy didnt provide for it to make a payment towards Miss Es alternative 
accommodation because she moved out two months before the claim was notified. Ive 
considered the policy terms and agree with Avivas view on this, so Im not intending to make 
any recommendation in respect of this point. Nor am I intending to direct Aviva to make a 
payment to Miss E to reimburse her for the payments she made to Mr H for the weekly visits 
to the property. I havent seen anything in the policy terms which require the unoccupied 
property to be visited weekly. This appears to be a private arrangement between Miss E and 
Mr H, separate from the subsidence claim. 
Ive thought carefully about the total compensation Aviva has paid in respect of the delays 
between spring 2018 and July 2019. And, like our investigator, Im not going to direct Aviva 
to increase the payment. I say this because, while Im mindful of the impact this has had on Miss E, I think the 
compensation represents a fair and reasonable payment for the timeframe in this complaint.  
This has clearly been a worrying time for Miss E with a huge amount going on for her in 
respect of her ill health, having to move out of her home and then the worry of the claim, and 
the significant delays and several instances of a lack of communication from Aviva. 
However, the compensation offered is in line with any recommendation I would have made 
and, on that basis, Im not intending to direct Aviva to do anything more. 
I realise my decision might come as a disappointment to Miss E and Mr H. And Im sorry for 
that, especially as the claim has continued beyond July 2019. However, Id remind them that 
if they remain unhappy with Avivas handling of the claim, they can make a complaint about 
whats happened since July 2019. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman