DRN-1616354
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Coventry Building Society is removing the debit card facility from an 
account that he holds with it, so hell no longer be able to buy things with his card.
What happened
Mr O has an account with Coventry. The account had a debit card. His complaint is that 
Coventry decided to withdraw the debit card from this account. He can still use the card to 
take out money from a cashpoint, but can no longer use it for purchases. He said Coventry 
should have consulted its members before it did that. Its a building society owned by its 
members, its not a bank. And he said he was going to have to find another bank to issue 
him a debit card. He wanted Coventry to keep the account as it was.
Coventry said it had made a commercial decision to stop offering this type of account. It said 
that only a tiny percentage of its customers have this account. It would cost a lot to keep up 
with advances in how debit cards are now used, for instance, to support contactless 
payments. And those changes and updates would only benefit a few people. So instead 
Coventry had decided it would no longer issue a debit card. It would allow customers who 
still have this account to carry on using it, but the debit card wold be replaced by a cashcard, 
and the account would no longer have an overdraft facility. 
Coventry told us that it realised some of its customers would be inconvenienced by this. So it 
gave people lots of notice of the upcoming change. And it had joined the current account 
switching service, so those people could easily move to another bank or building society if 
they wanted to. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Coventry had told 
its members about the upcoming changes, including Mr O. So Mr O had a chance to decide 
what he wanted to do before the changes came into force. Our investigator said he realised 
Mr O was disappointed with the change, but he hadnt lost out financially as a result of this. 
Mr O wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that Coventry shouldnt have made this decision without consulting its members. 
But I havent seen anything to make me think that Coventry has to consult its members 
about something like this. 
I also think its important that, even if Coventry did ask its members about this change, it 
wouldnt be likely to have made any difference. Because only a tiny percentage of its 
members now have these accounts, I think its most likely that the majority of the societys membership would choose to prioritise their savings and mortgage accounts. Not to continue 
to support an account facility which so few members make use of. So Im afraid I dont think 
the outcome for Mr O wouldve been any different if Coventry had asked its members. 
Mr O says that this will inconvenience him. Coventry has recognised that, and its sorry. Its 
put some things in place that will help to minimise the inconvenience, like joining the current 
account switching service, which makes changing to a new bank much easier. I dont think 
that Coventry has to do more than this. 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr O that I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman