DRN-2903172
The complaint
Mr R complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) should not have reported a 
missed payment to his credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I dont think its disputed that a payment was missed here or that Mr R had been told by 
MotoNovo that he was responsible for ensuring a payment was made in August 2020, after 
he had part exchanged his car.
But the dealership made the mistake. They had given Mr R assurances that they would 
make the payment in August for him. I dont think Mr R was to know they would face 
problems doing that. And Im mindful that this was during a period of uncertainty when what 
could normally be expected wasnt happening due to the pandemic.
Whilst there was a missed payment, and MotoNovo understandably reported that, I think in 
these exceptional circumstances they could have been more reasonable. They could, and I 
think should, have understood that the missed payment wasnt the result of Mr R not being 
prepared to keep to his financial obligations but more a case of exceptional circumstances.
Putting things right
Im therefore asking them to remove the late payment marker as I think that would be the 
fairest thing to do. But Im not asking MotoNovo to pay Mr R any compensation as I 
understand they were merely trying to comply with their obligations to report accurately. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to remove the late payment marker. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman