DRN-3189851
Complaint
This complaint is about a single premium loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2004. Mrs W says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because this was a sale by internet and Nationwide has 
provided a screenshot of part of the online loan application it says Mrs W would have 
seen at the time. 
Looking at this I can see a consumer was asked to indicate whether they wanted PPI or 
not by clicking one of two radio buttons  Yes or No. Neither option was pre-selected 
and the PPI was described as optional in the outline description given.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that Mrs W 
saw something very different, I think she chose to take out PPI by selecting the relevant 
option and did so without undue pressure.
Im satisfied Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W - so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs W enough clear and 
timely information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover (although Mrs W says she had a medical condition many years before 
the PPI was taken out, what she has described is not in my view an existing condition, so 
to all intents and purposes I consider she was in good health at the time.) 
I dont think the policy was too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was given  the policy provided for example a pro-rata refund if 
the loan was repaid early and the policy was cancelled, which is what happened in this 
case. And there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. The policy looks like it was affordable  albeit the cost in any event was made 
clear so Mrs W was in a position to judge this at the time. Because of this, it seems like 
the policy would have been useful for Mrs W if something went wrong  so I dont think 
she would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman