DRN-4152209
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy and the way it dealt 
with his claim. 
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his motor insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. 
When Advantage looked to settle the claim Mr M wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. 
And he wasnt happy it took his hire car back off him at that point in time. So, Mr M 
complained to Advantage about this.
Advantage looked to value Mr Ms car after it was written off by looking at the various trade 
valuation guides in order to gauge the market value of his car. And as he wasnt happy it 
looked again at the valuations and it became clear that it had made a mistake  it had 
mistakenly taken a deduction as it thought (incorrectly) that his car had previously been 
written off. Once it realised this error it provided what it thought was a fair market value of Mr 
Ms car, in line with the trade guides minus a small deduction as the Cars MOT had expired 
(£40) and in relation to a small amount of pre-existing damage (£80). It also refunded some 
of the additional costs Mr M incurred when his hire car was taken back. But as Mr M 
remained unhappy he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at 
the various motor trade valuation guides for Mr Ms car from around the time his car was 
stolen and thought Advantage had acted fairly as it eventually offered an amount that was in 
line with the valuation guides. And, although she accepted it must have been frustrating for 
Mr M to have been told his car was a previous write off, when it wasnt, she thought 
Advantage put things right quickly so she didnt ask it to do anymore here.
As Mr M didnt agree, maintaining that he couldnt buy a car for the money Advantage had 
offered, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partly upheld. I know it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, but I think Advantage eventually offered a fair market value for his 
car. But I wrote out to both sides separately to let them know I thought Mr M should be 
compensated for the poor customer service he experienced and that I didnt think Advantage 
had justified the small reduction it made for pre-existing damage.  
I can understand Mr Ms position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than Advantage 
have offered him. And he feels the way Advantage has valued his car has left him out of 
pocket. But this Service has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Ms. When 
looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I generally place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as the 
guides give an up to date guide of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at 
the time of the incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I 
will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr M doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth about £5,000 more 
than Advantage has offered. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the 
second-hand market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied Advantage has acted fairly. Ive 
looked at the various adverts Mr M has provided and, in the main, they have a lot less 
mileage than his car which clearly affects the value of the cars advertised. Indeed, Ive 
looked at some models similar to Mr Ms now and there are a few cars available (not many) 
for around the amount Advantage has offered although those with less mileage are clearly a 
lot more expensive. However, Im sure it isnt easy to find a similar car with similar mileage to 
his given the particular model of the car, but that doesnt mean Advantages valuation and 
offer is unfair.
I understand that Mr M doesnt feel the correct model of car has been used which may have 
affected the valuation. But Ive seen the make, model and details that Advantage has used 
to value his car and I dont see any discrepancy here. Indeed, our investigator has satisfied 
herself of the make and model of Mr Ms car as well and Im satisfied that the correct details 
for Mr Ms car have been used to gauge its value.
Advantage got its engineer to look at the valuation and considered the further information 
and evidence Mr M provided. And increased its valuation when it realised it had made an 
error in relation to the car being previously written off. So, I cant say it has acted 
unreasonably here. And although I understand Mr M feels this low offer was deliberate by 
Advantage Im satisfied, on balance, that this was simply a mistake. 
Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Ms 
car. Im just looking to see if Advantage has acted reasonably in providing a fair market 
value of his car and I think it has. Mr M has made the point that second-hand car valuations 
are rising. But the trade guide valuations are from around the time of his claim, so Im 
satisfied that he hasnt been prejudiced here and has been offered the market value of his 
car from around the time of his claim. 
Advantage also deducted £40 from the market value of Mr Ms car as it didnt have an MOT 
which seems fair. But I havent been provided with sufficient evidence to say that a further 
deduction of £80 for some pre-existing damage was fair. Although it can be fair for an insurer 
to deduct 50% of the cost of pre-existing damage I havent been provided with sufficient 
information to say this is the case here. So, I think it would only be fair to refund this to Mr M.
Finally, I think the mistake (of telling Mr M his car was a previous write off when it wasnt) 
has caused a fair degree of worry and stress for Mr M. He is a relatively new driver and 
saved hard for his car and it must have been stressful to have been told his car was a 
previous write off when it wasnt. And, as he has outlined he thought hed been sold a car 
that was worth a lot less than he paid for it originally which was very concerning for him. And 
so, I think Mr M should be paid a small amount of compensation (£100) for the stress, worry 
and inconvenience Advantage caused him here.  Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Advantage to refund the £80 it deducted from Mr Ms settlement and pay 8% 
simple interest for the time hes been without the money. And to pay him £100 compensation 
for the clear stress and worry he was caused by being told his car was previously a write off 
(when it wasnt) and being offered a very low settlement offer because of this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to refund the £80 deduction and pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement and £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman