DRN-3879679
The complaint
Miss L complains that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys Bank) incorrectly defaulted her loan 
causing her considerable stress. She would like the arrears on her loan written off. And 
missed payments removed from her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that Miss Ls account went into arrears. As I understand it Miss 
Ls asked on 23 May 2022 to change her payment date from 28th of each month to 
the 10th of each month with effect from June 2022. Sainsburys Bank actioned this 
but the direct debit for the May payment was returned as failed.  In her letter of 
complaint to Sainsburys Bank  Miss L explained that she didnt receive a swift 
response to her request to change the payment date. So was concerned that the 
change might not happen and funds would be taken that she couldnt fulfill. She 
therefore cancelled her direct debit payment and decided to wait until June 10, 2022 
to see if the payment would be taken. I have seen the loan agreement Miss L signed; 
this makes it clear consecutive monthly payments are required. I cant reasonably 
ask Sainsburys Bank  to write off the arrears on the loan as the arrears built up 
because of Miss L cancelling her direct debit payment.
Sainsburys Bank has however offered Miss L £30 compensation as it felt it should 
have reminded Miss L of the need to make a payment each month and for the fact it 
didnt waive interest, as it would usually do, when a customer enters an agreed 
repayment plan It also refunded the interest it shouldnt have applied along with a 
correctly charged  late payment fee of £25. I think this is reasonable redress in the 
circumstances
In terms of impact on Miss Ls credit file I understand she paid the outstanding June 
installment during a phone call in June 2022  with Sainsburys Bank. She also 
reached an agreement to make up the outstanding May payment over six months. 
Until the arrears on the loan were paid off these would be unfortunately be reflected 
on her credit file.
 Its important that credit files accurately reflect account history. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably ask Sainsburys Bank to amend Miss Ls credit file in the way that she 
would like. Its clear she couldnt make the May payment as she agreed to a payment 
arrangement to make this payment over six months. As a result, her account would 
show on her credit file as in arrears during the payment arrangement period. I also  
understand  Miss L  made extra payments for three months but broke this agreement 
in October which would have led to further arears on her account.
My final decision
My final decision that Sainsburys Bank plc has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement Sainsburys Bank plc should pay Miss L £30 for the inconvenience 
of not reminding her of the need for monthly repayments and for not immediately waiving 
interest on her account when she entered into an agreed payment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman