DRN-1447881
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that London General Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a 
claim made under her John Lewis Added Care policy, after her son accidentally damaged 
his ipad. 
Any reference to London General includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms D bought an ipad for her son's birthday in October 2018.  In June 2019, his ipad fell off 
his bed one night, which resulted in the screen being smashed along the bottom and side, 
and the home button falling off. Under the impression Ms D needed to return the item to 
John Lewis for repair, she kept the damaged ipad in a bag until she could get to the store. 
After finding out she needed to make a claim, she did so on 1 July 2019.
Ms D was asked how the accident had happened, and she explained the ipad had fallen 
from her son's bed. The ipad was collected for repairs. However, the repairers wanted more 
information about what had happened as the damage was extensive.  So London General 
asked what type of flooring was in her son's bedroom. Ms D was placed on hold during this 
process and the call dropped after she explained it was carpeted. When she called back she 
also explained she had kept the ipad in a bag until she could get to store, which could have 
caused more damage. The call handler went through to the claims team and explained the 
ipad had been carried around in a bag. The claim was subsequently declined as the damage 
didn't match the description of how it occurred.  
Ms D was unhappy  and believed her claim had been declined unfairly and the policy mis-
sold. London General explained that any mis-sale concerns would have to be made to John 
Lewis. Ms D later arranged for her son to provide more information about what happened. 
He explained the ipad had fallen from his bed and hit a three-pronged plug. He left the ipad 
where it was and when getting up in the morning he stood on it; he was unsure whether the 
damage had been caused by hitting the plug or by him standing on it. 
London General considered the information but stood by its decision to decline the claim. It 
still felt the damage was excessive for the incident as described and that accurate 
information hadn't been provided about the circumstances of the claim; differing stories had 
been told. So it didn't uphold her complaint. Ms D spoke with a manager who explained it 
wasn't saying the damage wasn't accidental but that Ms D needed to give accurate 
information. She explained that, and the damage being excessive, were the reasons for the 
claim being declined and further, that she should have got full details from her son about the 
incident before submitting the claim. 
Our investigator didn't think London General had fairly declined the claim. She wasn't 
satisfied London General had asked relevant questions during the claims process or 
provided Ms D with opportunity to expand on what happened. London General didn't agree 
and asked for an ombudsman's decision. In summary, it said:Ms D advised on numerous occasions that the ipad fell from the bed to carpeted 
floor. Multiple questions were asked and she was given the opportunity to provide 
further information; as the damage wasn't consistent the repair was declined. It 
wasn't until the damage wasn't consistent was explained a number of times that her 
son provided further information about the dropped ipad. And then in a later call, she 
said it had hit the beside cabinet - so more conflicting information. 
Whilst the investigator referred to its responsibility to ask questions, there is some 
onus on the customer to provide a detailed description of what happened as 
stipulated within the terms and conditions. 
Ms D said the damage got worse during its time in storage.
Alarms were raised when the John Lewis store rang and asked if the claim would be 
paid if Ms D provided different circumstances. 
The policy was cancelled as a pro-rata refund was sent so there is no live policy in 
place. 
Our investigator pointed out that Ms D hadn't been asked on multiple occasions what had 
happened, she was asked one question during the initial claim call and following that one 
question about the type of flooring. She also pointed out that Ms D referred to the ipad being 
stored in a bag as possibly causing more damage, not that it did. And she didn't think John 
Lewis had been suggesting that Ms D alter the basis of her claim. 
London General continued to disagree and said that even had more questions been asked, 
Ms D wouldn't have been able to provide the details during the initial call, as she has told it 
on multiple occasions that her son hadn't been available at the time and so more information 
still wouldn't have been provided. 
Ms D has explained she never cashed the cheque for the pro-rata refund and she is happy 
to return this and have the claim paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for any claim is the contract between the parties - the policy document. 
The policy explains:
Your Product is covered against accidental damage.
Accidental damage is considered to be damage resulting from an unforeseen and 
sudden incident, which is accidental in nature. 
There doesn't appear to be any dispute here that the ipad was damaged in an accident. The 
complaints team manager said as much in her telephone conversation with Ms D. For the 
sake of completeness, I'm satisfied that an ipad falling from a bed and hitting a plug and/or 
being stepped on would amount to an accident under the terms of the policy. 
London General has declined the claim as it says the damage is excessive for the incident 
described and that Ms D didn't give an accurate description of the circumstances which led 
to the damage. I will deal with each in turn. 
I have considered the photographs provided of the damage the ipad sustained. I agree it is 
extensive. There is a lot of broken and missing glass and the home button has come away. 
But I don't think this damage is inconsistent with the ipad falling onto a three-pronged plug and/or it being stood on. In my experience such damage is entirely plausible. Indeed, I note 
that in discussions with the repairer such damage couldn't be ruled out as a result of either 
or both of those eventualities. London General hasn't provided any persuasive evidence as 
to why the damage couldn't have been caused by the events as described. 
London General has also declined the claim because it says Ms D hasn't provided an 
accurate description of what happened. The terms of the policy say:
You will also be required to provide an accurate description of the circumstances that 
led to your item becoming damaged. If you are unable to do so, this may affect our 
ability to assess and validate your claim. 
I do accept London General's point that there is some responsibility on the customer to 
provide accurate information. But I think it has gone too far when it suggests that Ms D ought 
to have made sure she had all the relevant information before making her claim. Whilst 
those of us working within the industry might understand the type of information that might 
be needed by an insurer, I don't think the same can be reasonably said of most 
policyholders. 
The policy explains that:
You may be required to submit a claim form with photographic evidence of the 
damage or allow us to inspect the Product. We will explain the simple claims process 
and advise you what information or documentation you will need to provide when you 
call. 
But London General didn't do what it said it would in its policy; it didn't explain what 
information it would need from Ms D. During the initial claims calls, it only asked what had 
happened. Ms D advised the ipad had fallen from her son's bed. That isn't inconsistent with 
what her son says later. She wasn't asked any other questions during that call. I don't find 
that was necessarily wrong, as the extent of the damage wasn't know then. But when the 
repairer raised queries about that, it only asked her about the flooring in her son's bedroom. 
Ms D explained it was carpeted. No further questions were asked during this call, although it 
appears Ms D was placed on hold and the call dropped. 
During this time, an internal call was made about the information given and it was explained 
more information was needed about how the fall off the bed and the ipad landing on carpet 
could result in the damage caused. But I can't see that this discussion was ever had with  Ms 
D. And around the same time, Ms D had called back and was speaking with another call 
handler about the claim. During that she told him she'd placed the ipad in a bag and thought 
that might have caused more damage. But when the call handler spoke with the claims 
team, he referred to the ipad being carried around in her bag. And it seems the claim was 
declined following this. 
Not only did Ms D not say that she had been carrying the ipad around in her bag (I 
understand it was in a bag in her study) she was never asked the additional questions 
London General said it needed to ask.  I agree with our investigator, it was for London 
General to ask the right questions it needed to gain the information it wanted to properly 
consider the claim. Although Ms D might have been aware it thought the damage was 
excessive, I don't think she could reasonably have understood that meant London General 
didn't think the damage could have been attributed to the fall alone and that something else 
must have happened. And it knew that it was her son who had had the accident, not her. It 
wasn't until after the claim was declined and Ms D made a complaint that this was made 
clearer, such that she arranged for her son to provide an explanation. London General has said that even if more questions had been asked initially, information 
wouldn't have been forthcoming as Ms D had told it that her son was out at the time of the 
claim. I think this somewhat misses the point. Had Ms D been aware that London General 
needed more information about the actual circumstances in which the ipad had become 
damaged, she would have either got that from her son herself, or arranged for him to speak 
with it, as she did later. 
Overall, I'm not persuaded London General has treated Ms D fairly throughout this process. I 
don't think it asked enough questions about what happened before declining the claim.  
Although it accepted an accident happened, it stood by its decision to decline the claim 
because further information (not contradictory) was provided later, which it considers Ms D 
ought to have known to provide during the initial claim call. I find this to be unfair and 
unreasonable.  I therefore require it to pay the claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions. 
Finally, I note that London General had concerns when John Lewis called it about submitting 
a different version of events - if the ipad had fallen onto stones. I can understand why 
London General would have concerns . Any suggestion of the ipad falling on stone/s would 
be a substantial change in how the accident happened. But it seems to me that John Lewis 
was simply seeking to understand why the claim had been declined. And there is no 
suggestion that Ms D changed her version of events in such a way or that she intended to do 
so. Indeed, it isn't even clear that Ms D was aware of John Lewis asking this. I don't think it 
would be fair to attribute John Lewis' comments to Ms D. 
Putting things right
I'm not persuaded London General has fairly declined this claim. I therefore require it to:
reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions;
if the claim is accepted, London General should arrange a repair at Ms D's 
convenience. If the ipad is now uneconomical to repair, it should replace it, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
 
I am aware that Ms D cancelled the policy following the declined claim and she was sent a 
cheque for a refund of pro-rata premiums. And I accept this should be repaid if the claim is 
going to be settled. But as I understand it, Ms D never cashed the cheque and so the 
premiums remained with London General. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this  complaint and require London General Insurance 
Company Limited to settle this claim as set out above.  
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2020.Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman