DRN-2962407
The complaint
Mr S complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) has unfairly registered a default 
on his credit file. He asks for it to be removed.
What happened
Mr S made a credit application to PayPal which was approved in February 2019 with a credit 
limit of £3,000. Mr S started to use the account shortly afterwards.
PayPal says payments were received for the first two statement months, but no regular 
payments were made thereafter. In August 2019, it issued a default notice informing Mr S if 
the arrears on the account were not paid by 6 September 2019, it could result in a default 
being recorded on your credit file.
Mr S says during this time he suffered from some prolonged and distressing personal 
circumstances and he did make some payments and so he didnt agree PayPal was justified 
in registering a default on his credit file, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S said he felt PayPal had acted hastily and other lenders had said a default shouldnt 
have been registered until at least 180 days of missed payments. He asked for the interest 
and charges to be refunded and the default removed.
PayPal didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it had an obligation to accurately report 
information to credit reference agencies. Dissatisfied, Mr S brought his complaint to this 
service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr S. She sympathised with the difficulties Mr S had 
experienced and understood his strength of feeling on this matter but she agree PayPal had 
acted unfairly and so she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed. He didnt feel the extent of his personal circumstances had been considered 
fully. He said other lenders had not reported a default due to his vulnerability. He provided 
further information and asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr S, Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Firstly, Id like to say I can sympathise with Mr S. He has provided extensive personal 
information, all of which I have read and considered, and I can see he has a had a very 
difficult time.
But for me to uphold his complaint I would need to find that PayPal has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and Im afraid I cant see that it has.
Its probably useful to explain how lenders are required to report information to Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs)
The principles for reporting repayment difficulties are set out by The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). This is the body set up to deal with a customers personal 
information. In July 2016, it released an updated paper called Principles for reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document set out 
principles for lenders (which PayPal is one) when reporting information to CRAs. 
Understandably, the ICO requires that information reported on a credit file is ..fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date and where regular payments are not made by the 
agreed date, principle two of the document says: If you do not make your regular expected 
payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed amount according to your terms and 
conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues 
over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking 
some form of action. This could include notification of their intention to report the account as 
defaulted.
In this case, I can see Mr S made a payment in April 2019 and May 2019. He missed 
payments in June, July and August 2019. This resulted in PayPal issuing a default letter.
The letter said that if the arrears of £311.61 were not paid in full by 6 September 2019 it 
could take action which included, but was not limited to, giving 28 days notice that a default 
would register with credit reference agencies if the arrears were not paid by 6 September. It 
also said if Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties, they were willing to help. 
Mr S made a payment of £200 in September, but this didnt clear the outstanding arrears.
I can see that despite Mr Ss difficult personal circumstances he had a number of telephone 
conversations with PayPal. It advised of the account could be defaulted and reported to 
CRAs. It also offered him a payment plan, and although this wouldnt have prevented it from 
reporting a default and an arrangement to pay, it was offering Mr S alternatives to assist him. 
But he declined that offer. No further payments were made until December 2019, by which 
time the default had been reported.
I appreciate Mr S feels that other lenders acted differently. I cant comment on the 
differences as lenders often have different criteria. I have looked in this case at the actions 
PayPal took. Based on what I have seen I think it has acted fairly and reasonably and so Im 
not going to ask it to do anything else.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr S but Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman