DRN-3552526
The complaint
Miss B complains about the actions of Johnsons Cars Limited in respect of the 
arrangements she made with it to get a car on finance.
What happened
Miss B has made extensive submissions setting out the timeline of events along with her 
arguments in support of her claim. I have reviewed this record in full. As the timeline does 
not appear to be in dispute, I see no need to go into great detail here. To summarise the key 
points:
In 2020, Miss B attempted to buy a car from Johnsons Cars using personal contract 
purchase (PCP) finance. Johnsons Cars placed Miss Bs finance application with a third 
party finance provider S. Believing her application to have been approved, Miss B paid a 
deposit to secure the car. But Johnsons Cars subsequently informed Miss B that S had 
declined to provide finance for the purchase.
Over the following weeks Miss B attempted unsuccessfully to enforce what she believed to 
be a binding agreement to fund the purchase. She was upset that Johnsons Cars relisted 
the car for sale despite her paying the deposit. Miss B ultimately proceeded with the 
purchase by means of alternative funding, but has sought compensation for her time and 
costs. Miss B asserts a number of contractual breaches and misrepresentations by the 
parties involved in the sale arrangements and what she believes to have been unfair 
discrimination.
Our investigator dealt separately with Miss Bs concerns about the parties. He wasnt 
persuaded Johnsons Cars acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Miss B in the way it dealt 
with her credit application. He didnt think Johnsons Cars had been wrong to attempt to 
place the lending application with S, or that it was responsible for the decision to decline 
credit. The investigator didnt consider Johnsons Cars had discriminated against Miss B, or 
that it was unreasonable to have relisted the car for sale when Miss B hadnt been able to 
secure the finance to make the purchase.
Miss B hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions. She responded with further comments 
setting out why she considers:
Johnsons Cars was party to the finance agreement, was in breach of contract, her 
consumer rights, trading regulations, and is liable to her in damages
liability for contract performance and damages should be addressed between 
Johnsons Cars and S, and is not her responsibility
the issue of discrimination is primarily with the lender and not the trader (Johnsons 
Cars), but the latters request for her passport serves as evidence of dishonesty and 
that it was not obtained for lawful purposes
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Miss B feels very strongly about what she believes to be significant 
failings by all the parties involved in the transaction. In light of much of what shes submitted, 
however, it seems to me that it would be useful to explain the purpose of our service and 
some of the limitations that apply to my consideration of the overall events.
Our service was set up by Parliament to provide a means for users of financial organisations 
to bring complaints about provision (and non-provision) of financial services and products. 
While we provide an informal alternative to the courts, we dont have a free hand to consider 
every aspect that a complainant might wish to have considered.
Much of what Miss B asserts in relation to Johnsons Cars actions arises from its role as a 
car dealer. My power to deal with a complaint about Johnsons Cars extends only to its role 
as a credit broker and activities ancillary to that role. The sale of the car was not ancillary or 
subordinate to the broking of credit; rather Miss B sought the credit because she wanted to 
buy the car. So while I appreciate the importance Miss B attaches to Johnsons Cars sales 
activity, the relisting of the car and trading regulations, it isnt for me to pass comment on 
those aspects in my decision.
Rather, my role here is to look at Johnsons Cars actions in placing Miss Bs credit 
requirements with S. I see no reason to conclude that Johnsons Cars was remiss in doing 
so. S is a supplier of PCP finance, which was the type of credit Miss B sought. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Johnsons Cars would or should have known that S would decline 
Miss Bs credit application on the basis it did. Indeed, given that it appears S initially did 
accept her application, I cannot see how it would be right for me to criticise Johnsons Cars 
for its action in placing the business with S.
Johnsons Cars informed Miss B promptly when S told it that it had decided not to lend, as I 
would expect it to do. However, I understand Johnsons Cars suggested a higher deposit 
might result in a different lending decision. I dont consider this was an appropriate step for 
Johnsons Cars to take; it doesnt appear to have been based on anything S told it. That said, 
as Miss B proceeded with the purchase by other means, Im not persuaded this led to a 
financial loss for which she needs to be compensated.
In Miss Bs response to our investigator she makes the point that in the main, her arguments 
about discrimination are primarily in relation to S, rather than against Johnsons Cars. While I 
take her point on board I should say, for the sake of completeness, that Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that Johnsons Cars unfairly discriminated against Miss B in the steps it 
took in relation to the finance arrangements. Ss identification requirements1 require a full UK 
driving licence, which Miss B didnt possess. The fact Johnsons Cars asked for her passport 
is unlikely to amount to evidence of discrimination by the broker on the grounds of her race 
or nationality, or indeed that it was obtained for anything other than lawful purposes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I do not require Johnsons Cars 
Limited to take any further action to resolve Miss Bs complaint.
1 as published in FAQs on Ss website  what information do I need to provide to apply for finance?Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman