DRN-3446801
The complaint
Ms M complains that Capital Com (UK) Limited unfairly closed more positions than it needed 
to when she fell below the margin requirements of her trading account.
What happened
Ms M has a contracts for differences (CFD) trading account with Capital Com. On 
1 February 2021 at 8:11am Capital Com closed 10 GBP/USD CFD positions Ms M had 
opened. Ms M contacted Capital Com about what happened. It told her the positions were 
closed as she had fallen below the margin requirements needed to keep these positions 
open.
Ms M thought it was unnecessary for Capital Com to close all the positions, as closing only 
some of these wouldve been enough to bring the account back within the margin 
requirements. She had another account with Capital Com which she thought should have 
been considered when it was calculating her margin position. 
As Ms M felt these positions were unfairly closed and given her losses were around £33,000, 
she complained to Capital Com. She asked they provide her with more detail around the 
closure of the positions and that it reimburse her. But in response, Capital Com said it had 
fairly closed these positions on margin call. And as it thought it had acted within the terms of 
the account, it said it had closed the positions fairly and hadnt caused Ms Ms loss.
Unhappy with this explanation, Ms M asked our service for help. She explained that in 
addition to her losses, her interpretation of the terms and her other account, shed also paid 
significant overnight fees which she would be unable to recoup and that what happened 
caused a great deal of stress. 
One of our investigators looked into whatd happened, but didnt think Capital Com had done 
anything wrong. He thought Capital Com was entitled to rely on its terms and had applied 
them fairly as Ms M fell below the margin requirements of the account. He explained the 
reason all positions were closed was because Capital Coms policy was to close all open 
losing positions before evaluating the margin position again.
Ms M didnt agree as she felt the policy hadnt been applied correctly. She said Capital Com 
should have not closed all open positions in one go  its terms and conditions said closure 
would be done gradually but if this isnt what it meant, then the terms and conditions were 
not transparent and instead open to interpretation. It also wasnt acting in the clients best 
interest which was unfair. As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me 
to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In offering CFD products, Capital Com as a regulated business must follow relevant rules 
that flow from intervention in the sector by the European Securities and Markets Authority 
(ESMA) in 2018. Relevant here was the requirement for Ms M to have enough equity  being 
the total unrealised value of open positions and the account balance  on her account to 
fund her running positions.
Ms Ms equity fell below 50%  I do however appreciate that she doesnt contest this point, 
but instead is unhappy with how Capital Com handled what happened.
The terms of Ms Ms account with Capital Com set out what would happen in the event her 
account fell below the minimum margin requirements when trading. Section 5 of the leverage 
and margin policy  which formed part of the overall terms and conditions of Capital Coms 
service with Ms M  said that she must maintain the minimum margin requirements for her 
open positions. It went on to say the responsibility remain with Ms M to maintain and monitor 
the account margin and ensure sufficient equity was in the account to maintain her positions. 
Though Ms M says the terms were unfair and werent given the prominence they should 
have been, I think they were clearly set out within a key document which was only six pages 
long. 
As mentioned, the rules required Capital Com to take action if Ms Ms account equity fell 
below 50%. This said, I would expect Capital Com to set out the procedure and the actions it 
would take to ensure Ms M understood the impact it might have on her trading. As Ms M 
wouldve agreed to the terms at the time of opening the account  which included the 
leverage and margin policy  Ms M agreed that Capital Com could take such action. It said:
When the minimum margin level of 50% is reached, the positions and/or orders are 
closed out in the following order until minimum Margin requirement is restored:
1) all pending orders are cancelled,
2) If the Margin Level is still below 50%, then all losing open positions on open markets 
are closed,
3) If the Margin Level is still below 50%, then all remaining positions on open markets 
are closed,
4) If the Margin Level is still below 50%, then everything else is closed, as soon as the 
markets open.
This clearly set out the order taken to restore margin if the account equity fell below the 
margin requirement. In Ms Ms case Capital Com got to the second step which was that all 
losing open positions on open markets would be closed. That was an absolute statement, so 
only once that action was fully complete would Capital Com reconsider the equity against the 
margin requirement. 
Having looked at the 10 positions Ms M complains of, I see they were all trading at a loss  
the positions therefore fell under the category of losing open positions which meant Capital 
Com would close all of them before checking whether the account had moved back within 
the margin requirements as it set out in its terms.
I appreciate Ms M makes the point that Capital Com couldve closed some of her positions, 
and not all of them  after all, this mightve been enough to satisfy margin. But there was no 
mechanism within Capital Coms policy which said positions would be closed individually, as 
Ms M expected, until the margin requirement was met. 
While some brokers deal with margin calls in a manner closer to Ms Ms expectations, just 
because other firms do doesnt mean Capital Com has to do the same  it instead had to do 
what it said itd do within the terms which formed its agreement with Ms M. Importantly, the 
regulations did not prescribe how firms must handle margin calls or which positions should 
be closed, so Capital Com had discretion here  but from everything Ive seen it acted 
reasonably and in line with its own terms.I see Ms M challenged Capital Coms use of the word gradual when it explained how 
margin calls would work. Within the leverage and margin policy, at 4.10 it said:
A "Close Out" takes place when the client's Margin Level is at or below 50%, and the 
Company decides to exercise its right to liquidate client's open positions on a gradual 
basis subject to clause 5 below.
But I dont agree that the use of the word gradual meant Capital Com ought to have closed 
her positions one by one. Instead I think its clear that gradual was a way to explain its four 
step approach which I have shared above and that it referenced as clause 5  this showed 
Capital Com wouldnt close all positions as soon as margin breached 50%, but instead that 
itd work through pending orders, then losing trades, then profitable trades and lastly closed 
markets. When working through the process, at 2) Capital Com made it clear it would, with 
my emphasis, close all losing open positions so it didnt have the discretion to leave some 
trades open as Ms M now argues. 
Ms M also said Capital Com shouldve relied on her balance held in another account with it 
when calculating her margin but I dont agree. The ESMA rules told Capital Com it had to 
manage her margin on a per account basis. It wasnt for Capital Com to manage Ms Ms 
funds for her by moving a balance between accounts, nor should it have been expected to 
take higher level view of Ms Ms situation before following its policy  instead, it acted in line 
with its terms, which as Ive said before was important as it upheld the agreement it had with 
Ms M. 
Though Ms M feels Capital Coms actions were unfair, it was required to take steps to 
protect her account when she fell below 50% margin  even if only marginally as what 
happened here. Though she may feel Capital Com caused losses given it crystallised them, 
its important to remember the regulations require firms to take action at 50% as the market 
couldve slipped lower and lower. And the action Capital Com took was in line with what it 
said itd do. So from everything Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair to ask Capital Com to 
compensate Ms M now.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 January 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman