DRN-4454568
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim she made on a 
group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs C is insured under a group private medical insurance policy. Her daughter, Miss C, is 
also insured by the policy. In June 2023, Mrs C made a claim to AXA for the removal of one 
of Miss Cs teeth. The tooth is a supernumerary tooth which is buried. Mrs C said the buried 
tooth is preventing Miss Cs adult teeth from coming through.
AXA turned down Mrs Cs claim. Thats because it said that it didnt think the tooth extraction 
was eligible treatment of an acute condition in line with the terms of the policy. And it didnt 
think there was evidence that the removal of Miss Cs tooth was medically necessary. So it 
said that the claim wasnt covered.
Mrs C was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
felt the policy wording indicated that the removal of Miss Cs tooth would be covered. She 
considered that the extraction of the tooth was medically necessary. Thats because she 
said that if the tooth wasnt removed, this would have an impact on Miss Cs ability to eat 
and talk in the future.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was 
medical evidence which showed that the extraction fell within AXAs definition of eligible 
treatment. She wasnt persuaded the medical evidence showed that Miss Cs buried tooth 
was an illness, disease or injury, or that it was causing her any pain. So she felt it had been 
fair for AXA to turn down Mrs Cs claim.
Mrs C disagreed. In summary, she maintained that the policy terms stated that the removal 
of buried teeth would be covered. She didnt think AXA had defined what it meant by an 
illness, disease or injury in the policy terms. She considered that the removal of Miss Cs 
tooth to be treatment of an acute condition. And she reiterated that if the tooth wasnt 
extracted, Miss Cs speech and eating would be impacted.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs C and Miss C, I dont think it was 
unfair for AXA to turn down this claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think AXA 
handled Mrs Cs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mrs Cs employer and AXA. Page 21 of the policy states that AXA covers eligible 
treatment. AXA has set out what it means by eligible treatment and Ive listed below what I 
think are the key parts of this definition:
Eligible treatment is treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment: 
 falls within the benefits of this plan and is not excluded from cover by any term in this 
handbook; and 
 is of an acute condition
 is not preventative.
An acute condition is defined as: 
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment that aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or that leads to your full recovery.
The policy states, on page 44:
Health insurance is designed to cover problems that youre experiencing at the moment, so 
it generally doesnt cover preventative treatment or screening tests including genetic tests.
Page 45 of the policy sets out the relevant dental cover and states:
The plan does not cover treating dental problems or any routine dental care including 
treatment of cysts in the jaw that are tooth related or are of a dental nature. This also means 
we will not pay any fees for dental specialists, such as orthodontists, periodontists, 
endodontists or prosthodontists. 
We will cover the following types of oral surgery when you are referred for treatment by a 
dentist: 
 reinserting your own teeth after an injury 
 removing impacted teeth, buried teeth and complicated buried roots 
 removal of cysts of the jaw (sometimes called enucleation).
And page 45 also includes the following exclusion on cover:
Like most health insurers, we only cover treatment that is medically necessary. We do not 
cover treatment that is not medically necessary, or that can be considered a personal 
choice.
Mrs C has made a claim for the removal of Miss Cs buried tooth. Its clear that this is a 
procedure that AXA will cover in certain circumstances. However, in my view, the policy 
terms as a whole make it clear that in order for this procedure be covered, AXAs entitled to 
be satisfied that the treatment is for an acute condition and that its medically necessary. I 
dont think the policy terms suggest that all claims for buried teeth will be paid automatically. 
In this case, AXA doesnt think the removal of Miss Cs tooth is medically necessary. And so 
Ive looked carefully at the available medical evidence to decide whether I think this was a 
fair conclusion for AXA to draw.Ive looked closely at a letter sent by Miss Cs treating specialist to a surgeon in June 2023. 
The letter says:
I would be grateful if you could assess and treat (Miss C) for the removal of a 
supernumerary which is impeding the eruption of the URl and UR2
She is medically fit and well.
The referral form the specialist sent AXA stated that Miss C was being referred for an 
extraction of a buried supernumerary which was impeding the eruption of her upper right one 
and two teeth. Neither piece of specialist medical evidence indicates that the buried tooth 
was causing Miss C pain or discomfort. 
It's clear Mrs C feels strongly that Miss Cs condition is an acute condition and I appreciate 
that illness, injury and disease havent been defined in the policy terms. Where a policy word 
or phrase isnt defined, we will generally consider the plain and ordinary meaning of it and, 
often, a relevant dictionary definition. In my view, a reasonable policyholder would 
understand a disease or illness to be an infection or a failure of health and an injury to be 
physical harm to a person caused by an accident or attack.
I dont find it was unfair for AXA to conclude that the medical evidence didnt indicate that the 
tooth removal was intended to treat an illness, disease or injury, nor that the treatment 
wasnt medically necessary. Thats because it appears that the removal of the tooth was 
proposed to allow eruption of Miss Cs other teeth. The evidence specifically states that Miss 
C is medically fit and well. So I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that the 
extraction wasnt for the treatment of an acute condition. This means it simply isnt eligible 
treatment under the terms of the policy. Ive noted Mrs Cs comments that if the tooth isnt 
extracted, then Miss Cs ability to eat and talk could be adversely impacted. But I havent 
seen enough persuasive medical evidence which shows that this is the case. And in any 
event, it seems to me that treatment for that reason would be preventative - which is 
specifically excluded by the policy terms and conditions. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mrs C and Miss Cs position because I can entirely understand 
why they would like the tooth to be removed. However, based on all Ive seen, I dont think 
AXA acted unfairly when it concluded that Mrs Cs claim wasnt covered. And so it follows 
that I think it was fair for AXA to turn down this claim.
It's open to Mrs C to obtain more specialist evidence in support of her claim should she wish 
to do so and to send it to AXA for its review. If she is unhappy with any further consideration 
of her claim, she may be able to make a new complaint about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman