The complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent irresponsibly to him.
What happened
Mr C took out four loans with Mr Lender between October 2015 and July 2017. Details of 
Mr Cs loans were as follows:
Loan 
no. Date borrowed Date re
paid Amount
1 12.10.15 01.04.16 500
2 15.04.16 21.10.16 350
3 23.12.16 23.06.17 500
4 09.07.17 24.08.18 600
Each of the loans was due to be repaid in six instalments. Mr C repaid all four loans in full, 
but he fell into difficulty repaying the last loan, and entered a repayment plan with Mr Lender. 
This allowed him to repay the loan more gradually, in smaller instalments.
When Mr C complained to Mr Lender, it offered to give him a retail voucher worth £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill. And it offered to ask the credit reference agencies to remove any 
negative information about the loans from Mr Cs credit file. Mr C wasnt satisfied with 
Mr Lenders offer, and brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, she didnt think 
Mr Lender had been wrong to make the first three loans. But she thought that by the time 
Mr C applied for loan 4, Mr Lender should have realised that Mr Cs pattern of borrowing 
suggested that hed become reliant on short-term loans. So she didnt think Mr Lender 
should have agreed to make loan 4. And she said it should pay Mr C some compensation, 
and make some amendments to his credit file.
Mr Lender wasnt happy with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
DRN-1676986What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Lender did some checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And its told us it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. 
Ive seen a summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused additional concerns to Mr Lender.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Cs loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mr C needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a much 
longer period.
I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr C needed to repay were relatively small compared with the income 
hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think it would 
have been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. So I 
dont think Mr Lender was wrong to give those loans to Mr C.
Mr C applied for loan 3 two months after repaying loan 2. Hed been a few weeks late paying 
one of the monthly instalments on loan 2. And although loan 2 had been smaller than loan 1, 
loan 3 was back up to the level of loan 1. I think that by the time Mr C applied for loan 3, 
Mr Lender should have realised that his financial position might not be as healthy as it 
appeared from the information it had available. And I think that at this stage, it ougMy 
decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.ht to have taken steps to verify 
the information independently. We asked Mr C for copies of his bank statements so we could 
see what better checks would have shown Mr Lender. He didnt provide these to us. So Im 
not able to say that better checks would have shown Mr Lender that it shouldnt have given 
loan 3 to Mr C.
But by the time he applied for loan 4, Mr C had been borrowing from Mr Lender for most of 
the preceding 21 months, with the longest gap between loans being only two months. Whats 
more, he wasnt making any inroads into his level of borrowing from Mr Lender, with loan 4 
being his biggest loan to date.
Looking at the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing from Mr Lender, I think that by the time he 
applied for loan 4, Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. So it should have realised, at this point, that it shouldnt 
provide any further loans to Mr C.
I think that Mr C lost out because Mr Lender agreed to make loan 4 because this loan had 
the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr C's indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit 
intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The period he was borrowing 
over, was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to make loan 
4 to Mr C. This means Mr Lender needs to pay Mr C some compensation.
 
Putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to make loan 4 to Mr C. So Mr Lender should:
refund all the interest and charges that Mr C paid on loan 4;
 pay interest at 8% simple per year on each of those amounts from the dates when
Mr C paid them to the date of settlement;
Mr Cs borrowing pattern with Mr Lender means any information recorded about
loan 4 is adverse. So all entries about loan 4 should be removed from Mr Cs credit
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I dont consider that any further compensation should be paid, as Mr C has suggested, to 
reflect the stress this matter might have caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman