DRN-3630639
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt help recover the money she lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs W was contacted by a company called Capital Seven after shed been 
researching investment opportunities. Between January and April 2020, she made several 
payments using her Metro Bank debit card. Although the funds appeared to credit her 
trading account with Capital Seven, the merchant that the debit card payments were made 
to was company called Maxigrid Limited.  
The following transactions were made to Maxigrid Limited:
Date Type Amount
Payment 1 15 January 2020 Debit card £192.47
Payment 2 21 January 2020 Debit card £1,004.02
Payment 3 18 February 2020 Debit card £6,023.74
Payment 4 31 March 2020 Debit card £1,114.71
Payment 5 28 April 2020 Debit card £10,036.29
Refund 4 May 2020 Credit £615.17
Total payments £18,371.23
Total credits £615.17
Total loss £17,756.06
Mrs W has said that she eventually realised shed been scammed when a payment for 
£2,000 was blocked by Metro Bank and Capital Seven became aggressive on learning this. 
(Metro Bank has been unable to confirm whether it intervened like Mrs W has suggested). 
It is my understanding that Mrs W first reported the scam by phone in June 2020 and then 
followed this up in writing in July 2020. Following several chasers and a complaint, Metro 
Bank ultimately rejected Mrs Ws chargeback request. Unhappy with this, Mrs W referred her 
complaint to our service. In its submission, Metro Bank said that it believed it had correctly 
declined Mrs Ws chargeback request. But it accepted there were customer service failures 
and offered £50 compensation. 
I issued my provisional decision last month. I said that I intended to uphold this complaint 
and set out the following reasons:
Mrs W says her dealings were with Capital Seven. Given the information Ive found 
during my research on Capital Seven, Im persuaded that Mrs W fell victim to a scam 
rather than simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning on 25 March 2020 telling consumers 
that Capital Seven had been operating in the UK without its permission. I also 
understand that its website disappeared suddenly. On balance, Im satisfied that 
Capital Seven wasnt a legitimate trader.
But Mrs W didnt make the disputed payments to Capital Seven; she paid Maxigrid 
Limited. This is important because card issuers  Metro Bank in this case  are only 
able to present a chargeback against the merchant the payment was made to, not 
another party. Ive no credible evidence to persuade me with any degree of certainty 
that Maxigrid Limited was operating a scam. The evidence Ive seen suggests that it 
was indeed regulated  albeit in a different jurisdiction  at the time it offered 
cryptocurrency exchange services to Mrs W. 
That Mrs Ws funds were subsequently transferred on to a scammer doesnt give 
grounds for a chargeback against Maxigrid Limited. So, I dont think Metro Bank 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not presenting a chargeback.
While I dont think that Metro Bank could have done more with regards to the 
recovery of Mrs Ws funds, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened 
before allowing the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mrs W using her legitimate security 
credentials. I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which 
Mrs W is liable unless theres evidence that Metro Bank could and should reasonably 
have done more to protect her and that this would have made a difference to her 
decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider good industry practice at the time. Metro Bank ought to 
have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to 
identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of 
fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing payments, 
or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm from 
fraud.
I wouldnt have expected Metro Bank to have picked up payments to Maxigrid 
Limited as being suspicious solely based on the merchant name. There were no 
regulator warnings in place about it when Mrs W made the disputed payments. But 
this isnt the end of the matter. 
Ive considered the operation of Mrs Ws account in the months leading up to the 
disputed payments. This is to determine whether the payments were so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that I think Metro Bank ought to have intervened. Like the 
investigator, I dont consider the first two payments  of £192.47 and £1,004.02  
were unusual or uncharacteristic based on Mrs Ws account activity. But I think that 
the third payment  of £6,023.74  ought to have triggered Metro Banks systems and I consider it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned 
Mrs W before processing it.
Had Metro Bank carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs W about the 
payments, Ive no reason to doubt that she would have explained what she was 
doing and how she came to finding out about the investment opportunity. 
While its not up to our service to dictate what questions a bank should ask, Metro 
Bank could have, for example, asked how Mrs W had been contacted, whether she 
had parted with personal details in order to open a trading account, whether 
unrealistic promises were made, whether the investment opportunity was linked to a 
prominent individual or advertised on social media, etc. These are all typical features 
of investment scams and form part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a 
consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam. 
Im satisfied that Mrs W would have likely shared information which aligned with the 
hallmarks of this type of scam, as she had been given no reason to think she had to 
hide this information from her bank, and neither had she been coached to tell them 
something different.
       
Had Metro Bank then indicated the potential for fraud and provided Mrs W with a 
potential scam warning, it seems more probable to me that she would have looked 
into the investment opportunity further and discovered more information about this 
type of investment, including the increasing prevalence of scams, and whether claims 
made by the broker were true. Mrs W could have discovered that Capital Seven 
wasnt regulated by the FCA. And although the FCAs warning wasnt published until 
a month later, I think its likely that Mrs W would have come across various regulatory 
warnings about the risk of such scams. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied that even a general warning about investment scams 
from her trusted bank would probably have been enough to give Mrs W second 
thoughts such that she wouldnt have gone ahead with that payment. I therefore 
conclude that Metro Bank ought to have intervened when Mrs W authorised the 
payment on 18 February 2020. And had it done so, she wouldnt have incurred 
further losses. The three payments add up to £17,174.74. Mrs Ws already received 
a refund of £615.17 directly from the merchant. So, its only fair that this amount is 
deducted from the loss that Metro Bank needs to reimburse. 
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mrs W is partly to blame for what happened. 
And I think that she is. She told our investigator that she didnt carry out any research 
into the investment, the trader, or the investment type to reassure herself that the 
opportunity as presented was genuine. Or that Capital Seven was a legitimate trader. 
So, I do think that Mrs W ought to bear some responsibility for her losses. As Im 
currently minded to find that Mrs W is partly responsible, I think it would be fair to 
reduce compensation by 25%.  
Ive also thought about whether a payment for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused Mrs W is appropriate. I think that the substantive cause of her 
distress and inconvenience was Capital Seven. That said, Im mindful that Mrs W did 
have to make several calls to Metro Bank over the summer of 2020 before it 
reviewed her chargeback request. Although I dont think there were grounds for a 
successful chargeback even if the customer service provided by Metro Bank had 
been better, it recognises that the service it provided fell short and has offered £50 
compensation. In the circumstances, I think Metro Banks offer of £50 is fair.I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. 
Mrs W and Metro Bank responded and said that they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision and not provided anything further for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from it. So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold 
this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, Metro Bank PLC needs to reimburse Mrs W payments 3 to 5  as set 
out above  with a 25% deduction for contributory negligence. From that sum, it can deduct 
the credit of £615.17 that was directly recovered.
Metro Bank should also add simple interest at 8% per year (less any tax properly deductible) 
to each reimbursed payment, calculated from the date of the respective payment to the date 
of refund.
Metro Bank also needs to pay Mrs W £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced after reporting the scam.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman