DRN-3371543
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs Y complain about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under the home 
emergency cover provided as part of their home insurance policy. They are unhappy at how 
IPA responded to a problem with their boiler.
This decision covers Mr H and Mrs Ys complaint about IPA as the provider of home 
emergency cover, not the rest of the home insurance policy, provided by a separate insurer.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr H and Mrs Y called IPA because their boiler had stopped working 
intermittently, leaving them without heating or hot water. A fault code came up on the boilers 
display when this happened and they had to reset the boiler frequently to get it working, 
IPA sent an engineer to inspect the boiler, but couldnt diagnose the problem definitively, but 
based on his experience ordered a new sensor which he thought was causing the problem. 
The boiler was working after the inspection. A second engineer attended three days later to 
replace the sensor. But after it was replaced Mr H and Mrs Y found the boiler stopped 
working again and resetting it didnt get it working again. Mr H and Mrs Y believed that 
replacing the sensor had damaged the boiler. 
The second engineer told Mr H and Mrs Y that two further parts would need to be ordered, 
but IPA then decided the boiler was beyond economical repair. Mr H and Miss Y sourced 
their own engineer to replace the boiler, which took six days from the second IPA engineer 
visit. The replacement boiler cost £1,749. IPA offered £500 towards the cost of the 
replacement boiler and compensation of £75 for the inconvenience to Mr H and Mrs Y.
Mr H and Mrs Y werent happy at IPAs offer, so complained. IPA responded to the complaint 
through a Summary of Resolutions letter indicating they considered the matter settled 
(based on the offer to Mr H and Mrs Y). 
Mr H and Mrs Y then complained to this service. They were unhappy at IPAs offer, believing 
they should cover the full cost of the replacement boiler because they thought IPA were 
responsible for the boiler completely stopping working. Mr H and Mrs Y said that while their 
boiler was working intermittently and needed resetting frequently, it only completely stopped 
working after IPA had attended and replaced the sensor. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding IPA didnt need to take any action. 
He thought it reasonable the first engineer diagnosed an issue with the sensor, based on the 
error code. He also thought it reasonable for IPA to reassess the problem with the boiler after 
the second visit and conclude it was beyond economical repair (as the estimated costs of 
repair were likely to exceed the £1,000 policy limit for a claim). In those circumstances, he 
concluded IPA acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions in offering £500 
towards the cost of a replacement boiler. The investigator also thought IPAs offer of £75 
compensation wasnt unreasonable. He also thought the need to reset the boiler frequently 
indicated it was likely only a matter of time before it stopped working altogether.
Mr H and Mrs Y disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, they made wo main points. First, that the same error code 
appeared after the sensor had been replaced and at that point the boiler stopped working 
completely (which indicated the sensor wasnt the issue  if it was, then replacing it would 
have solved the problem). Second, if the engineer had diagnosed the problem properly (by 
checking other parts of the boiler) they would have diagnosed the issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IPA has acted fairly towards Mr H and Mrs Y.
The main element of Mr H and Mrs Ys complaint is that IPA didnt diagnose the problem 
with their boiler properly. And that replacing the sensor caused the boiler to stop working 
completely (and wasnt the issue, because had it been then replacing it would have got the 
boiler working again). They also, secondly, think that IPA should have diagnosed the issue 
properly, by checking other parts of the boiler. For their part, IPA say their engineer followed 
the right process when inspecting the boiler and replacing the sensor. They also maintain 
they acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions in deeming the boiler to be 
beyond economical repair and offering £500 towards the cost of a replacement boiler.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence provided 
(including details of the job sheet from the IPA engineers). Having done so, Ive concluded 
IPA have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H and Mrs Y. I know theyll be disappointed 
with my conclusion, so Ill set out why Ive come to that view.
Looking at what happened, its clear there was a problem with the boiler from the error code 
and Mr H and Mrs Y having to reset it frequently to get it working again. From the case notes 
and information on the jobs provided by IPA, on the first visit the engineer checked the first 
suggested solution for the error code displayed on the boiler and diagnosed it wasnt the 
problem. Replacing the sensor was the second suggested solution, which was carried out on 
the second visit. But the error code remained, and the boiler stopped working. 
Ive considered Mr H and Miss Ys view that as the error code was still present after 
replacing the sensor  and the boiler stopped working completely  this meant IPA were 
responsible for the boiler stopping working. So, they should pay for the cost of the 
replacement. But I dont agree. The engineer followed a reasonable process in trying to 
diagnose the problem. Nor do I think replacing a sensor of itself was likely to have damaged 
the boiler. Information from IPA on the make and model of boiler indicates it was produced 
between 2004 and 2008, so would have been at least 13 years old at the time of the 
incident. The error code and need to reset the boiler frequently also indicates a problem.
The records indicate the boiler manufacturer was consulted, but the suggested next step 
wasnt possible due to an inability to remove a cover because of worn screws. Having 
replaced the sensor, IPA then looked to replace further parts. Given this, I dont agree with 
the second of Mr H and Mrs Ys issues, that IPA should have checked further parts to 
identify the problem, because what Ive said indicates that they did look at further potential 
solutions and replacement of parts. 
However, as the parts would have cost more than the £1,000 policy limit for the cost of repair 
in any one claim, the boiler was deemed beyond economical repair. In the circumstances, I 
dont think this was unreasonable, given the policy terms and conditions state:We will organise and pay up to £1,000 per claim including VAT, call out, labour, 
parts and material to carry out an emergency repair.
Having reasonably concluded the boiler was beyond economical repair, IPA offered £500 
towards the cost of a replacement. Again. looking at the policy terms and conditions, under a 
heading Boiler and Heating System  Beyond Economical Repair it states:
What is covered
If our authorised contractor is unable to repair, or it is uneconomical to repair your 
boiler/hot water system, we will pay you £500 inc. VAT towards buying a replacement 
boiler or heating system.
Based on this, Ive concluded IPA acted fairly in applying the policy terms by offering £500 
towards the cost of the replacement boiler. I dont agree with Mr H and Mrs Y that IPA 
should pay for the full replacement cost of the boiler. Its age and clear indications of a 
problem suggest it may have been nearing the end of its useful life  Ive also not seen 
evidence that it was regularly serviced or otherwise maintained before the problem arose.
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. IPA offered £75 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused from the boiler stopping working (before it was replaced). While Mr H 
and Mrs Y havent specifically raised this aspect, Ive considered whether its fair and 
reasonable (in addition to the £500 contribution to the cost of the replacement boiler). While 
there clearly was inconvenience in the time between the boiler stopping working completely 
to its replacement, given what Ive concluded that IPA cant be held responsible for that, then 
I think their offer of £75 is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Ys 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman