DRN-2299812
The complaint
Mrs K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc refused to follow her instructions to 
make a payment out of her account and that the service she received in branch was 
unacceptable and left her upset and humiliated. 
What happened
On 2 July Mis K visited her local branch of RBS to make a payment of £10,000 to her son.  
Mrs K says shes made 32 payments to her son using this method over the past 2 years, 
although for smaller amounts, without any problem. However, this time she was asked for 
proof of identity. Before she was able to go to her car to obtain this, Mrs K says she was 
stopped by a member of staff who told her the bank wasnt willing to make the payment 
because she couldnt say exactly how the payment was to be used. Instead it offered to 
make a payment of £1,000 on that day but said any further payments would need to be 
supported by receipts.
Mrs K considers this was unreasonable because, as shed explained, the money was a gift 
so she didnt how it would be used. She felt the bank had misunderstood her replies and 
wasnt willing to listen to her. Instead it suggested she could send a cheque, register for 
online or telephone banking or could withdraw the money in cash from the ATM and it 
offered to increase her daily limit for this to £750. Mrs K didnt consider any of these options 
were reasonable. 
Mrs K doesnt agree that her instructions werent clear and says when she contacted the 
customer service team it also agreed that thered been no reason to refuse the payment. It 
offered her £30 compensation for what had happened.
Mrs K says she went back to the branch the next day but the bank again refused to make 
the payment. She also went back on the two days after that but the bank wouldnt deal with 
her and then called the police. Mrs K says she was left upset and humiliated by this and by 
the attitude of the staff in branch. She wants RBS to compensate her for this and considers 
£450 would be appropriate.
RBS didnt accept the complaint. It said that when Mrs K visited the branch on 2 July, she 
didnt have the necessary proof of identity so it couldnt make such a large payment. It said it 
offered instead to make a smaller payment but that full ID would have been required before it 
could pay the larger amount. It said it was also concerned that, when it had asked Mrs K 
what the payment was for, shed given different answers so it felt her instructions werent 
clear. It said it had offered to help Mrs K set up telephone or internet banking so she could 
make the payment and it had also explained the options of issuing a cheque or making a 
withdrawal from the ATM. It didnt agree it had been unreasonable.
While it understood that Mrs K was unhappy with what had happened in branch, it felt Mrs 
Ks subsequent visits to the bank had been upsetting to both staff and other customers so it 
had taken the action it felt necessary to protect them. It noted Mrs K had received some 
minor compensation for the difficulty shed had in making the initial payment and didnt 
consider that any further compensation was required. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she could see how upset Mrs K had been 
by what happened she couldnt agree RBS had acted unreasonably by refusing to make this 
payment in those circumstances. Section 2.2. of the terms and conditions of her account 
allowed RBS to decline to make a payment where it felt the instructions were unclear. It 
appeared Mrs K had given a number of reasons as to how this money may be used and 
while this might have been due to a misunderstanding as to what was being asked, she 
couldnt say RBS decision was wrong as it was in line with its policy on potentially risky 
payments.
Shed taken into account what Mrs K had said about the other options offered by RBS but 
she could see RBS had made these suggestions on the basis that theyd be more secure 
than a transfer and she considered that was reasonable. 
With regard to what had happened in branch our investigator said she understood how 
distressing Mrs K had found this, in particular that the bank had called the police. There 
wasnt any independent information to show what had been said or done and for that reason 
she couldnt say that the way RBS had handled the situation over the four days was 
inappropriate, even though she accepted Mrs K had found it upsetting. In addition she wasnt 
able to look at the way RBS had handled her complaint as complaint handling in itself wasnt 
a regulated activity and so didnt come within the remit of this service. For these reasons she 
wouldnt be asking RBS to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  She said in 
summary:
shed given clear instructions to the bank for this transfer and didnt agree there was 
any confusion.  
although the bank had refused to make the transfer in branch it had then suggested 
other ways she could make the payment which undermined their claim they thought 
the payment was fraudulent. 
RBS could have tried to verify the payment by other means for example contacting 
her son. 
the transfer was a gift and it wasnt reasonable of RBS to say it couldnt make the 
transfer unless she could say precisely what it was to be used for.
RBS customer services had confirmed she was entitled to make the transfer but the 
local branch still refused to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs K and RBS have a very different on this so I should explain that where 
theres no clear information on any point, or the information requested is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities or in other words whats 
more likely than not to have happened taking into account the circumstances of the case
At the heart of this complaint is Mrs Ks view that RBS was unreasonable in refusing to make 
the transfer on 2 July. Shes explained very clearly why she thinks that is and I can see how 
strongly she feels about whats happened.
RBS like all banks has a responsibility towards its customers to try to ensure that any 
transactions they make are legitimate and theyre not being pressured into making 
potentially risky transactions. Thats part of their security measures so I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for RBS to ask for more information about what this payment was for and to require proof of identity. Ive taken into account that Mrs K had made a large number of 
payments to her son over the previous two years but these were for much smaller amounts 
and its not unreasonable to expect the checks on a much higher amount to be more 
stringent.
RBS says when Mrs K was asked about the reason for the payment, she gave different 
reasons and, based on that, it felt the payment might be risky. Mrs K says she tried to 
explain it was a gift so she didnt know what it would be used for and what she said were 
simply suggestions. 
Ive made further enquiries with RBS  but unfortunately, theres no independent evidence to 
show exactly what was said and it seems to me there may well have been some 
misunderstanding on both sides. What is clear is that RBS took the view that the answers 
given were confusing and that Mrs K seemed unclear as to exactly why she was making this 
payment. On that basis it felt the payment might be fraudulent and so it relied on its right 
under the terms and conditions of her account to refuse to make it. I  know Mrs K strongly 
disputes this but I consider that RBS was acting on what it understood Mrs K to have said 
and because of that, I cant reasonably say it acted outside of the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ks account by refusing to make the payment.
Mrs K has said RBS approach was inconsistent in that it declined to make the payment in 
branch but then suggested a number of options she could use to make it personally, 
including telephone or online banking, issuing a cheque or simply withdrawing the money in 
cash from the ATM over several days. RBS has said these other methods didnt require 
identification, which Mrs K didnt have on her first visit to the branch. But it seems RBS 
wasnt willing to allow Mrs K to obtain the necessary proof of identity after the first visit 
because it had already decided that the payment might be risky and it wasnt willing to 
process it, either as one complete payment or in several smaller ones over several days.
If the bank thought this might be a risky payment, then its unclear why it went on to suggest 
a number of other ways for Mrs K to make it. On the other hand if it felt it was a payment Mrs 
K was entitled to make personally then it hasnt explained why it wouldnt allow her to obtain 
the proof of identity it says it needed to allow it to be done in branch - or why it agreed on the 
first day to make a payment of £1,000 to her son but not to agree to make any further 
payments after that. It seems the staff in branch may have been trying to assist Mrs K but I 
can understand why she found it confusing.
Ive seen that RBS has already paid Mrs K £30 compensation for what happened on that first 
visit. I know Mrs K feels the compensation should be much higher because of the distress 
she went through but I should explain that I can only compensate Mrs K for any actual 
financial loss or for the distress and upset shes had as a result of something the bank has 
done wrong. 
In this case I consider RBS explanation as to why it declined the payment was reasonable. 
Ive also taken into account that, after the first visit, Mrs K was aware that RBS wouldnt 
agree to make this payment and so I dont think there was any additional inconvenience 
when she returned to the bank on the following days. Its clear the situation became very 
heated when Mrs K went back the following week but I cant say the bank was unreasonable 
to call the police if it felt this was necessary in order to protect its staff and customers. Ive 
also taken into account that the banks decision didnt prevent Mrs K from making the 
payment as she was able to issue a cheque and so the impact of its decision was limited. 
I realise Mrs K may be disappointed by this but taking all of this into account, I consider that 
the £30 already paid is reasonable for what happened and for that reason I wont be asking 
RBS to do anything more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman