DRN-2525810
The complaint
Mr B and Miss G have complained about the way their life protection policy provided by 
Aviva Life and Pensions (UK) Limited was presented to them online. They have said this 
was misleading and caused them to believe they had more protection than they actually had. 
Theyre also complaining about the cost of the policy as having recently received new quotes 
for a similar policy, which are cheaper, they feel they have been overcharged.
What happened
In May 2014 Mr B and Miss G were taking out a mortgage with a separate business to Aviva. 
I will refer to this business as Business B. A condition of its mortgage lending was that they 
had to have suitable life protection in place. Business B collected all of their information and 
completed the application for the policy and then sent this to Aviva as the policy provider to 
set it up. 
The policy provided life and terminal illness protection for both Mr B and Miss G for a sum 
assured and term that matched the mortgage. The policy was entitled Life and Critical Illness 
Insurance but critical illness protection was an optional extra which, it is recorded in the 
documentation completed at the time of the sale that Mr B and Miss G chose not to include. 
This is what Mr B and Miss G are disputing.
Mr B and Miss G have said that in 2019 they called Aviva to inform it of their change of 
address and it was at this point they discovered the policy didnt provide them with critical 
illness protection as they had thought. They have said they thought critical illness protection 
was included because of the title of the policy they had seen on their online portal.
After this they cancelled their policy and obtained quotes elsewhere for the same type of 
policy but with a higher level of protection and despite this, and the fact they were five years 
older, the quotations were half the price than the Aviva policy.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He agreed the title of the policy was misleading but felt the policy documents that 
would have been provided to Mr B and Miss G at the time of the sale clearly set out that 
critical illness protection wasnt included in the policy. He therefore felt that Mr B and Miss G 
should have read these documents and so despite the title of the policy they would have 
known this fact. He also explained that the cost of the Aviva policy was set up on standard 
rates at the time and was not something this Service could involve itself in.
Mr B and Miss G didnt agree with the assessment. They reiterated their unhappiness with 
the misleading information and explained how concerned they were about what could have 
happened if they had claimed for critical illness under the policy. They felt that Aviva should 
recognise the confusion caused and it not doing so was unethical.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint can be upheld.
Looking at the title of the policy I can understand why a certain amount of confusion was 
caused. However, it is usual for any prospective policy holder to also read all the policy 
information, key facts documents and illustrations that are also provided to them at the time 
of application. And I dont think its reasonable for anyone to assume what protection they 
had in place just from a title of said policy. In this situation I can see that the policy 
documents explained the exact type of cover Mr B and Miss G took out and records the fact 
that critical illness was not part of the policy. Also, the policy illustration states that critical 
illness cover was an option and that for this policy Mr B and Miss G had chosen not to 
include this. Between them these documents set out in no uncertain terms that the only 
protection they had under the policy was life and terminal illness benefit.
These documents should have been read by Mr B and Miss G before they signed the 
contract agreeing to take the policy out. Mr B and Miss G have said the policy information 
wasnt provided to them, but Aviva has confirmed they were sent this all by post and I have 
seen the address used was the correct one for Mr B and Miss G at the time. So, I think its 
likely these documents were sent and received. In addition to this, I can see from the 
information I have that Aviva also sent the policy information again to them in 2015 after 
Mr B and Miss G had enquired about the policy and this information again states clearly that 
critical illness protection was not included.
So, while I agree the title of the policy is slightly misleading, I think Mr B and Miss G should 
have read the policy documentation at the time, as this was their duty before accepting the 
terms of the contract. I also think that Business B was the party responsible for collating all 
of their information to send to Aviva and for explaining the policy to them and Avivas 
responsibility was to only act upon what business B had sent it.
It is worth me pointing out here that its not unusual for these types of polices to have 
additional benefits but its impractical for the title to state all of these. Nor is it practical for the 
titles to be bespoke to each policy holders requirements. That is why detailed information 
about policies are always provided.
So even though I think the title of the policy was a touch misleading this isnt enough for me 
to conclude that its reasonable Mr B and Miss G thought critical illness protection was 
included in their cover. The policy information documents bespoke to Mr B and Miss G 
specific objectives detailed all the cover that was relevant, and it was incumbent upon them 
to have read this and understood them at the time. If they werent happy they had the 
opportunity to change the policy before it was put in place.
With regards to the cost of the policy from Aviva compared to the quotes Mr B and Miss G 
have recently received, this Service cannot involve itself in this aspect. The cost of life 
insurance policies are set up based on the individual circumstances of the policyholders 
including age, lifestyle choices and health conditions. And the rates used are standard 
across the industry so it is very unlikely Aviva would have increased the costs for its own 
benefit. Furthermore, Mr B has said that information about his smoking status was noted 
down incorrectly at the time, which he has only just noticed, so this may be why the 
premiums were more expensive in 2014 than what they have received now. But accurate 
collection of this information was the responsibility of Business B and not Aviva.
Overall therefore, in my view while the policy title stated it was a life and critical illness policy, 
I think this is standard wording and the documents of the policy is the information Mr B and Miss G should have read to inform them of the exact type of protection they had 
agree to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no aware.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman