DRN-2915554
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, recorded a
missed payment on her credit file.  
What happened
In November 2020, Mrs M made a payment of approximately £6,850 to clear the outstanding
balance on her Tesco credit account. However, a residual interest amount was later
calculated by Tesco and added to Mrs Ms account. This meant that Mrs Ms account was no
longer at a zero balance and that an amount remained payable to clear the balance in full.
Importantly, it also meant that a minimum payment was still required to be paid on the
account the following month.
Mrs M wasnt aware that the residual interest amount had been added to her account, or that
a minimum payment was due because of this, and so Mrs M didnt make a payment toward
the account in December, as was required.
Tesco sent Mrs M a letter advising that shed missed a payment and that a missed payment
fee had been added to her account. Tesco also advised that theyd recorded a missed
payment on Mrs Ms credit file because of this. Mrs M wasnt happy about this, so she
contacted Tesco and paid off the remaining balance on the account and raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mrs Ms complaint. They sympathised with Mrs M and with what had
happened, so they agreed to reimburse the missed payment fee that theyd charged.
However, they felt that theyd reported the missed payment to the credit reference agencies
correctly and explained that they werent willing to remove the missed payment marker from
Mrs Ms credit file because of this.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also sympathised with Mrs M, but
they also didnt feel that they could fairly ask Tesco to remove the missed payment marker
from Mrs Ms credit file, given that it had been applied correctly. So, they didnt uphold Mrs
Ms complaint.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 June 2021 as follows:
Credit providers have an obligation to make accurate reports to credit reference 
agencies, including reporting instances of missed payments. Tesco have done that 
here, because Mrs M did miss a payment that was due on her account.
However, its within the remit of this service to instruct a business to amend a 
customers credit file when its considered that the application of a technically correct 
process has led to an unfair outcome. And thats what I feel is the case in this 
instance.
I say this because Mrs M had made a substantial payment to clear what was, at the 
time that she made the payment, the full outstanding balance on her account. And I 
can understand why, having made such a payment, Mrs M might not have 
understood that a final interest calculation would be made on her account such that a 
further amount would be added to the account that she remained liable to pay.
And while Tesco have confirmed that Mrs M was made aware of the existence of this 
further amount via the statement that was sent to her after she made the large 
clearing payment toward her account, I can also understand why Mrs M might not 
have paid full attention to that statement, given that she believed shed cleared the 
account in full.
Ultimately, it doesnt feel fair to me that Mrs M should act to make a large payment to 
clear her account in full, only to then incur a missed payment marker for a relatively 
small amount that she was understandably unaware that she needed to pay.
It follows that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mrs Ms favour and that 
Ill be provisionally instructing Tesco to remove the missed payment marker from Mrs 
Ms credit file, such that it was never reported. However, given that Tesco didnt add 
the marker incorrectly, I dont feel that any further form of redress or compensation 
would be appropriate at this time.
In my provisional decision I gave both Mrs M and Tesco the opportunity to provide any 
comments or additional information that they wished me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
Mrs M confirmed that she was happy with my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. Whereas Tesco did provide some comments for my consideration, arguing against the 
outcome Id arrived at in my provisional decision.
Tesco expressed their disagreement at the statement I made in my provisional decision 
about the application of a technically correct process leading to an unfair outcome. Tesco 
further stated that they didnt consider that an unfair outcome had taken place and that it had 
been incumbent on Mrs M to have understood that further interest would accrue following 
the large payment that she made to clear the balance on the account, and to have made a 
payment in consideration of this accrued interest.
I can appreciate Tescos position here, and I acknowledge that Tesco have not made an 
form of error in this instance  and it is for this reason I havent considered any form of 
financial redress as I would do in instances where I felt the business in question had made 
an error.
But it remains my opinion that it isnt fair that Mrs M would make a substantial payment to 
clear the balance on her account - an act which I consider shows a fair degree of financial 
responsibility  only to then incur adverse reporting on her credit file in regards to a interest 
calculation that took the balance of her account from zero back into a outstanding balance position. Furthermore, I can understand how Mrs M might not have been aware  having 
made the large payment to take her balance to zero  that such a subsequent accrual of 
interest might arise.
And while I appreciate and fully understand that Tesco have a responsibility to provide 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and have done so in this instance, I 
feel that these particular circumstances are such that it would be unfair for Mrs M to incur 
adverse credit reporting against her, given that Im satisfied that her intent here was to clear 
the balance of her account and that she was showing a degree of financial responsibility in 
showing such intent.
So, while I can understand that Tesco wont agree with the outcome here, my final decision 
is that I uphold this complaint in Mrs Ms favour and that Tesco must remove all adverse 
credit reporting relating to this issue from Mrs Ms credit file.
Putting things right
Tesco must remove all relevant adverse credit reporting relating to this account from Mrs Ms 
credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading 
as Tesco Bank, on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman