DRN-2609966
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tideway Investment Partners LLP (Tideway):
- should have advised him to delay transferring his deferred occupational pension scheme 
benefits to a Self-Invested Personal pension (SIPP), as he feels the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) would have been much higher if he had delayed the transfer;
- gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred occupational pension scheme 
benefits to a SIPP; and
- did not fully disclose the fees it would receive.
Mr D is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
It appears that Mr D discussed his deferred occupational pension scheme benefits with 
Tideway in mid-2015. A fact find was completed and Tideway wrote to Mr D setting out its 
initial advice in July 2015.
Mr D then signed the necessary transfer forms and a private client engagement letter. This 
letter set out that an initial fee of 1% would be charged and ongoing fees would be 1% per 
year (assuming Mr D remained a client of Tideway for 3 years).
At the time Mr D was 57 years old. The fact find recorded that he had significant equity in his 
home and a portfolio of buy-to-let properties. It noted he was currently contributing to an 
defined benefits pension scheme with his employer and had a defined contributions pension 
pot of around £80,000 - as well as the deferred occupational pension scheme benefits that 
Tideway was advising him on. His salary was recorded as £55,000 and it was also noted 
that he held shares with a value of around £60,000.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds deferred occupational pension scheme 
benefits was over £307,000.
In November 2015, Tideway sent Mr D a more detailed report setting out its advice and 
explaining the advantages and disadvantages of transferring his deferred benefits out of the 
occupational scheme.
Mr D was also provided with a Key Features document, a factsheet for the multimanager 
funds Tideway had discussed with him and a SIPP platform charges document.
Tideway recommended Mr D should transfer his deferred occupational pension scheme 
benefits into a SIPP. It subsequently recommended that Mr D should invest his SIPP funds 
in a multimanager portfolio that Tideway would oversee.
Mr D went ahead with the pension transfer recommendation in November 2015. He took 
£15,000 in tax free cash at the time of the transfer. After the initial charge and tax-free cash 
had been deducted, he had around £289,000 in his SIPP.
It appears that after Mr D transferred his deferred benefits to the SIPP, Tideway was in 
regular contact with Mr D about investing the money. An assessment of Mr Ds attitude to 
investment risk and his risk tolerance was carried out in May 2016 and Mr Ds attitude to 
investment risk was assessed as low. For whatever reason, Mr D did not go ahead with 
Tideways investment recommendations and I understand that the SIPP remained in cash. In 
December 2016 Mr D then transferred his SIPP to another pension provider.
In 2019 Mr Ds representative complained to Tideway on his behalf about the transfer advice 
he had received. 
Tideway did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. It provided a detailed response addressing the 
points raised in Mr Ds complaint. It said it felt its advice had been suitable. 
Mr D was not satisfied with Tideways response and his representative referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint. Having done so, he said he didnt think that 
the advice given was unsuitable. 
He explained that, in line with the industry regulators position his starting point was to 
assume that the transfer was unsuitable, unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it was 
in Mr Ds interest to transfer his deferred occupational pension scheme benefits.
In summary, he made the following points:
- he was of the view that, based on the information available Mr D had intended to 
transfer his deferred benefits away from his former employers scheme;
- the information he had been provided with showed that Mr D had already investigated 
transferring his deferred benefits before he spoke to Tideway. Mr D was aware that the 
CETV was not guaranteed and could increase or decrease. He also noted that Mr D had 
asked about any impact that changes in Gilt yields might have on the transfer value he 
would receive and whether he would receive a larger transfer value if he waited until he 
was closer to his retirement date before transferring;
- the client engagement letter Mr D signed in late 2015 clearly set out the fees that would 
apply. He noted Mr D had also asked about the fees involved via email and Tideway 
also set out the fees in its response to this email;
- the critical yield required at the time the advice was given indicated that Mr Ds pension 
pot would need to achieve a year on year growth rate of 1.5% to match the scheme 
benefits at age 65;
- this compared favourably with 'discount rates' published at the time the advice was 
given. The discount rate was the growth rate that was considered to be reasonably 
achievable at that time. Our investigator noted that a discount rate of 3.8% per year for a 
consumer with 7 years to retirement (at age 65) would have been used in loss 
assessments and a discount rate of 3.5% per year would have been used for a 
consumer with 5 years to retirement (Mr D had indicated he wanted to take his 
retirement benefits at age 63).
In view of this, he said he felt the investment return required to match (or better) Mr Ds 
occupational pension scheme benefits at retirement was achievable.He also considered whether the transfer was suitable for Mr Ds personal and financial 
circumstances. He noted that Mr D had other pension pots, including a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme that he was contributing to, that was projected to give him an 
income of around £12,000 per year. The deferred benefits Tideway was advising Mr D on 
represented about 18% of Mr Ds net worth.
He said that although he was also mindful that a significant proportion of Mr Ds assets were 
held in property, Mr D was receiving a regular income from his buy-to-let portfolio.
He accepted that Mr Ds attitude to risk was not recorded prior to the transfer being carried 
out. But he noted that Tideway had assessed the risks involved in its report advising on the 
transfer. 
Once the transfer had been completed Mr D did not invest the funds. Our investigator noted 
that Mr D was in contact with Tideway about investing the funds in his SIPP and Tideway 
had provided Mr D with information and advice on investing the money in a low risk portfolio 
suitable for his attitude to investment risk. Mr D explained to this service that he was 
uncertain about the best way forward, and the funds had remained uninvested until Mr D 
transferred his SIPP to another provider.
Having considered all the information and evidence available our investigator said he was of 
the view that Mr D was the driving force behind the transfer. And he said he was of the view 
that the low critical yield meant the likelihood was that Mr D could have been better off as a 
result of the transfer if the funds had been invested. As this was the case, he said he didnt 
think the advice Mr D received was unsuitable and he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr Ds representative did not accept our investigators view. It said it did not think Tideway 
had done enough to clarify the full level of risk Mr D was taking when he transferred his 
deferred occupational pension scheme benefits. It said that if this had been sufficiently 
highlighted Mr D would not have gone ahead with the transfer.
It also made a number of detailed points to support its view that the advice given was 
unsuitable. It said:
- it disputed our investigators view that the growth rate required to meet, or better, Mr Ds 
existing provisions was achievable;
- Mr D felt the advice was not consistent with his financial objectives at the time as he 
had no reason to make the transfer;
- Mr D could have delayed the transfer to allow the transfer value to increase, but Tideway 
did not offer this option to Mr D; 
- Mr Ds recollection was that no investment recommendations were made at the time 
of the transfer even though it was suggested they would be during the advice process.
-  Mr D lacked the experience and confidence to invest in any funds himself but he had 
not been willing to accept Tideways investment recommendations;
- Mr D was not an experienced investor and, as such he was dependent on the advice 
he was given by Tideway and presumed they were acting in his best interests; and,
- it said that at the time the advice was given Mr Ds salary was £43,000, not £55,000 as 
recorded on the fact find.
Our investigator considered the points Mr Ds representative had made. Having done so he 
said he remained of the view that the advice Tideway provided to Mr D was not unsuitable. 
He explained that in reaching this view he had listened to the call recordings provided to this 
service, as well as reviewing the written records available.He reiterated that the records showed that Mr D had made extensive enquiries before going 
ahead with the transfer, including enquiring whether the transfer value was likely to increase 
or decrease in the future. And Mr D had received a clear explanation regarding how the 
CETV was calculated and that there was no guarantee that it would increase in the future.
He also noted that when he spoke to Mr D about his complaint, Mr D had told him that 
based on the evidence he had decided to go ahead with the transfer. But Mr D said he had 
since found out that if he had delayed transferring his deferred pension benefits, he would 
have received a larger CETV. Mr D also told our investigator that he felt he had made a 
mistake once he transferred as he didnt know how best to invest the money. Mr D said he 
felt this was the main reason he had made a mistake by going ahead with the transfer. 
In view of this our investigator said he felt Mr Ds main concern was the failure to invest the 
money after he had transferred it to the SIPP. He said that, as he had set out in his view, he 
couldnt reasonably hold Tideway responsible for Mr Ds decision not to go ahead with its 
investment recommendations. He said that when he discussed this with Mr D, he said he 
didnt take up Tideways recommendations as, having looked into the funds recommended, 
the growth rate was less than 3% at that time.
Again, our investigator said he felt this showed that Mr D had carried out his own research 
when considering whether to go ahead with Tideways investment recommendations.
He also noted that when he spoke to Mr D, he had confirmed that he understood the 
difference between the defined benefit pension he had given up and the SIPP. And Mr D 
said he had gone ahead with the transfer as he was aware that if the funds in his SIPP 
achieved a growth rate of 3%, he could be better off as a result of transferring. Mr D also told 
our investigator that he knew, at the time of the transfer, that the CETV was high and if he 
delayed transferring there was a risk the transfer value could fall.
In view of the evidence available our investigator said he was not minded to change his view 
that the advice given was not unsuitable.
Mr Ds representative responded to say it still did not accept our investigators view. It said it 
did not feel he had fully addressed all the points it had raised, and it asked for an 
ombudsman to consider every point, in detail. 
It summarised its concerns as follows:
We assert Tideway Investment Partners LLP shouldve made Mr D explicitly aware of the 
FCAs starting position with respect to DB transfers, as the professional party in the 
relationship, to ensure he properly understood the advantages/benefits he was giving up 
along with the potential negative consequences, which we assert were insufficiently 
highlighted. 
As weve said, Tideway werent obliged to recommend the transfer and shouldve been 
aware of the COBs guidance. Mr Ds level of financial knowledge, although fair in parts, was 
inconsistent overall and it shouldnt be assumed he fully understood all of the implications of 
the transfer.
Considering the above, were also concerned the transfer report doesnt recommend any 
specific investments given Mr D has stated that the core rationale behind the transfer was 
the investments would generate better returns than his existing provisions. Is it correct that 
this transfer was facilitated without due consideration to the specific details of how these 
returns would be achieved?Further, the transfer value of around £307,000 quoted in the report was less than the quoted 
sum of £338,206 required to purchase an annuity equivalent to Mr Ds existing DB scheme. 
Given this shortfall, its reasonable to assume a higher rate of return, than is specified in the 
report, wouldve been required from the outset to make up for this deficit. We disagree the 
recommendation in the transfer report shouldve been based on incorrect figures.
We also assert Mr Ds attitude to risk wasnt properly assessed and, had this been done, 
there were strong prospects of his risk adverse outlook coming across in the report. We 
assert his cautious outlook shouldve been accounted for with respect to the transfer from his 
occupational scheme and that he shouldve been cautioned against it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting accounts about what has happened, or gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided considerable information and arguments concerning the events 
complained about. I havent given a detailed response to all the points raised. This is 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same view as our investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
regulatory requirements
As our investigator set out, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority sets out in 
its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in COBS 19.1.6 that,
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the 
client's best interests.
It is not in dispute that if Tideway was of the view that it was not in Mr Ds best interests to 
transfer his deferred occupational scheme benefits it should have advised him not to go 
ahead.
I have carefully considered whether, based on the information and evidence available, the 
advice to transfer his deferred benefits to a SIPP was in Mr Ds best interests.
Transfer value
I note that Mr D has complained that the CETV has increased since he transferred his 
deferred benefits. 
I do understand why Mr D wanted to achieve the largest transfer value possible, but I am 
satisfied that Tideway gave Mr D a balanced and reasonable answer when he asked it for 
 advice on whether the CETV is likely to drop based on the possibility of Gilts going up as base interest rates rise later this year (assuming the price of Gilts is linked to the CETV 
calculations)?Am I likely to get a higher CETV if I wait to get closer to the Pension retirement 
date (at age 65)?
In response Tideway explained:
As discussed, the scheme works out your long-term liability to them as a member based on 
assumptions to life expectancy and inflation. They will then base a transfer offer on how they 
meet this liability, typically this is gilts (government debts considered very low risk 
investments as they are backed by the government) the gilts are very low at the moment due 
to the low interest rate economic conditions. Thus it is a very good time to move and take 
transfers, if interest rates rise transfer values will ultimately drop as GILT yield will rise too. 
Your liability to the scheme as a member becomes greater and more real as you get closer 
to the retirement age so we cant say your transfer will go up or down in the future, but 
we can say transfers are very good at the moment and they will drop if interest rates rise.
(bold is my emphasis)
In view of this, although I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position, I cant reasonably find that 
Tideway gave him any guarantee that the CETV wouldnt increase if he delayed transferring 
his deferred benefits.
If Mr D thought the CETV was going to increase in the future, he was free not to have gone 
ahead with the transfer in 2015.
Critical yield
In its submissions to this service Mr Ds representative said: 
Further, the transfer value of around £307,000 quoted in the report was less than the quoted 
sum of £338,206 required to purchase an annuity equivalent to Mr Ds existing DB scheme. 
Given this shortfall, its reasonable to assume a higher rate of return, than is specified in the 
report, wouldve been required from the outset to make up for this deficit. We disagree the 
recommendation in the transfer report shouldve been based on incorrect figures.
It appears there may be a misunderstanding on the part of Mr Ds representative on this 
point. As the November 2015 suitability report set out: 
FCA Style Analysis - Critical Yield
The current FCA prescribed transfer analysis to establish a critical yield is based on the 
following calculation:
-The critical yield is the investment return needed each and every year on the transfer 
value,
-after all costs and tax considerations, to create a pension fund value at normal 
retirement age (NRA) big enough to buy an annuity to match the scheme benefit
At current rates, a sum of £338,206 is required to purchase an RPI linked annuity at 
age 65 that would provide the same level of income as is payable from your final 
salary scheme
(source: FT, 29 October 2015).
To buy this annuity at age 65, you would need an annual return of 1.5%, which is not very 
challenging and certainly not guaranteed, particularly when you also need to add fees on 
top.In view of this I cannot reasonably agree with Mr Ds representatives claim that a higher 
rate of return, than is specified in the report, wouldve been required from the outset to make 
up for this deficit. 
As the November 2015 report clearly sets out, if a return of 1.5% or more, after costs and 
charges, (known as the critical yield) was achieved each year, based on the assumptions 
that had been set by the regulator at that time, Mr Ds pension pot should have been 
sufficient to purchase an RPI linked annuity at age 65 that would provide the same level of 
income as he would have received from his final salary scheme.
I must also take into account that the suitability report clearly explained, that if Mr D intended 
to purchase an annuity with this pension pot in the future, he should not go ahead with the 
transfer and included the following risk warning:
If you are attracted to an annuity style income in retirement with guaranteed lifetime 
income payments you should stay in the scheme.
I note Mr D says he has recently looked into buying an annuity with this pension pot and the 
pension he would receive is much lower than the pension he would have received if he had 
left his deferred benefits in the occupational scheme. I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position, 
but as Tideway made clear at the time, if Mr D wanted an annuity style income from this 
pension pot it did not recommend that he should transfer his pension.
fees
In the complaint Mr Ds representative brought to this service it said Tideway did not fully 
disclose the fees it would receive. As our investigator set out, the information and evidence 
that has been provided to this service shows that Tideway disclosed the fees payable, 
clearly and in writing to Mr D. As this is the case and Mr Ds representative has not raised 
any further points on this aspect of his complaint, I have not considered this issue any 
further.
advice to transfer
Tideway provided Mr D with two reports on its advice to transfer his deferred pension 
benefits, an initial report in July 2015 and a second report in November 2015. Having 
reviewed both these reports I cant reasonably agree with Mr Ds representatives position 
that the risks and disadvantages were not adequately explained.
As the November 2015 report set out, at the time the advice was given the CETV of around 
£307,000 represented about 18% of Mr Ds net worth. He also had other pension 
arrangements in place, he was contributing to a defined benefit pension scheme with his 
current employer and had a defined contribution pension pot worth around £80,000. 
In an email to Tideway dated July 2015 Mr D set out that the occupational pension he was 
currently contributing to was  guaranteed to give a £12,000 per year income at age 65 (I 
am 57 now) which is RPI indexed. 
So, the deferred pension benefits Tideway was advising Mr D on was not his only source of 
income in retirement. I note Mr D was also receiving an income from his buy-to-let portfolio 
and there was nothing to suggest this would not continue to be a source of income after 
Mr D had retired.
I am also mindful that Mr D had expressed a clear intention to transfer his deferred benefits 
to a SIPP. I note that in an email to Tideway he said:I do want to transfer the pension to a flexible arrangement, but I want clarity and assurance 
that this is the best time to transfer in terms of getting the highest transfer value.
As I have set out above, I am satisfied that Tideway did not mislead Mr D about whether the 
CETV might increase in the future.
Given Mr Ds clear intention to transfer his deferred benefits, the low critical yield that was 
needed to match, or better, the benefits of his occupational scheme and that Mr D had other 
sources of pension income, I dont think the advice to transfer was unsuitable.
investment advice
Mr Ds representative says;
were also concerned the transfer report doesnt recommend any specific investments given 
Mr D has stated that the core rationale behind the transfer was investments would generate 
better returns than his existing provisions.
It is not in dispute that a separate report setting out Tideways investment advice wasnt 
issued until May 2016. Likewise, the formal assessment of Mr Ds attitude to investment risk 
and risk tolerance is dated after the advice to transfer was given. But this, in itself, does not 
mean the advice to transfer was unsuitable. 
I am mindful that Tideway had set out its five-step process for pension transfers in its July 
2015 report. This made clear that advice on investing the funds transferred would be 
provided after the transfer had been processed. I also note that in the call recording that 
Tideway referred to in its final decision letter Mr D was aware that the funds would be held in 
cash after the transfer had been processed and the investment recommendations would 
then be made.
Mr D was assessed as having a low attitude to investment risk in the risk tolerance review 
carried out by Tideway. I am satisfied that the investment recommendations Tideway made 
were in-line with Mr Ds stated attitude to investment risk 
Mr D did not go ahead with the investment recommendations and his SIPP funds were left 
uninvested until he transferred his SIPP to another provider. Mr D told our investigator that 
once the funds were transferred to his SIPP, he wasnt comfortable with the investment 
recommendations made by Tideway so didnt invest his funds. It also appears that Mr D may 
have had some concerns about market timing and this led him to defer investing his SIPP 
funds.
Email correspondence that has been provided to this service shows that Mr D had been 
discussing how to invest his SIPP funds from no later than January 2016 and Tideway 
provided Mr D with information and factsheets on its multimanager offering. Likewise, I note 
that Mr D asked for past performance information over a range of different timeframes. I 
think this shows that Mr D made an informed decision not to go ahead with the investment 
recommendations made by Tideway. As this is the case, I cant reasonably find that Tideway 
was responsible for Mr Ds decision to leave the funds in his SIPP uninvested.
summary
Having carefully considered all the information that has been provided to this service in 
connection with this complaint I dont think the advice Tideway gave Mr D to transfer his 
deferred occupational pension scheme benefits to a SIPP was unsuitable.The information shows that Mr D was actively involved in considering whether the CETV 
available was likely to increase in the future. The pension pot Mr D transferred was not his 
only source of income in retirement and the low critical yield meant that the prospect of 
achieving a higher income in retirement from this pension pot was not unrealistic. I cant 
reasonably find that Tideway was responsible for Mr Ds decision not to invest his SIPP 
funds.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman