DRN-3175235
The complaint
Mrs S complains about mistakes and delays by Metro Bank PLC when she tried to transfer
her ISA funds to another business.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
At the end of January 2020 Metro received a request from Mrs S new ISA provider 
(F). Metro sent F a cheque for Mrs S entire ISA balance but incorrectly dated it 27 
January 2022, not 2020.
F started processing the cheque it received and made funds available which were used 
to purchase specific investments. But during the clearing process, F found the cheque 
was post-dated so it was rejected. Metro says the cheque was returned unpaid on 10 
February 2020.
On 1 March 2020 Mrs S visited a Metro branch to discuss the issue. On 3 March 2020 
Metro says it sent a replacement cheque to F. On 26 March 2020 F returned the second 
cheque and Metro says it mistakenly paid the funds into a suspense account. F requested 
updates from M on 1 April 2020 and 16 April 2020. On 21 April 2020 F asked Metro to 
send a faster payment and that was processed the following day.
Mrs S investments were reversed and sold on 26 March 2020. As a result, Mrs S says she 
suffered a loss of around £3,850. Mrs S also recently told us she was charged 
administration fees when the investments were refunded and would like those costs 
covered as well.
Mrs S complained and Metro apologised for the issues raised. Metro offered Mrs S £250 
but didnt agree to refund her losses. Metro said its terms and conditions advised its not 
liable for a loss that could not reasonably have been predicted when Mrs S instruction was 
received.
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Metro had dealt with Mrs S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs S asked to appeal, so her complaint was passed to me to look at. I recently asked the
 investigator to obtain further information from all the parties involved, including F.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different 
view to the investigator and intend to uphold Mrs S complaint.
Metros final response relies on its terms and conditions that say it isnt liable for a loss that 
couldnt have been reasonably predicted. But I think a reasonable person could foresee a 
problem by sending ISA funds to a new provider in an incorrectly post-dated cheque. I dont 
agree its fair to apply the terms in the way Metro has in this case.
Further, this service considers complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. That means, Ill 
take all the available information and evidence (including Metros terms) into account and 
make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint. Ive taken the terms as quoted by Metro into account but I dont agree its fair 
for Mrs S to suffer a substantial loss on the basis that it incorrectly post-dated a cheque.
F recently sent us information about Mrs S investments. I can see Mrs S ISA transfer was 
used in its entirety to purchase investments on 7 February 2020, after F received Metros 
cheque. Then, because of the issues raised and delays in getting funds back from Metro, 
those investments were sold by F on 23 March 2020. But due to market shifts in the 
interim, they were sold at a loss of £3,851.54.
Its clear Mrs S followed the right process when arranging to transfer her ISA funds and Im 
satisfied Metros errors led to the problems she experienced and a loss. So I intend to 
uphold Mrs S complaint and award the difference between what she paid and what her 
investments were sold for which was £3,851.54. Mrs S has also sent information that 
shows she was charged administration fees for the reversal of her investments. As the 
investments were only reversed because of Metros error, I also intend to award Mrs S 
costs of £110.89.
Metro offered Mrs S a total of £250 to apologise for the trouble and upset caused. In 
addition to the above compensation, Im satisfied thats a fair settlement and recognises the 
impact of the issues raised on Mrs S.
I invited both parties to respond with additional information they wanted me to consider. We 
didnt hear back from Metro. Mrs S responded in detail and set out the additional 
consequential losses she feels Metro should cover. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs S for the detailed responses and information shes provided. Ive read 
everything Mrs S has sent and provided feedback via the investigator concerning the 
information I would need to see to show she has lost out financially due to the issues I set 
out in my provisional decision. 
In brief, I said that we would need get a detailed understanding of what happened to Mrs S 
funds once they were transferred back over to F in April 2020. I also said that to show 
whether Mrs S had suffered a loss we would need to compare how her reinvested funds had 
performed against the shares F forced her to sell when Metros cheques were declined. I 
explained that the performance of Mrs S reinvested funds was important and required to 
show whether Metros actions led to a further loss. 
Ive read Mrs S comments and thoughts on what she feels the consequential losses are. 
But, Mrs S hasnt provided the requested information that shows a financial loss has been 
caused in this case. I say this because the consequential loss Mrs S has set out doesnt take 
into account what happened when she reinvested. 
Mrs S says that information has no bearing but I dont agree. As Ive said, to award further 
compensation in this case Id need to compare the performance of Mrs S reinvested funds against wouldve happened if the original shares had remained in place. As I dont have that 
information, Im not telling Metro to increase the award further.
I still think the fairest way for Metro to resolve this complaint is to refund pay her £3,851.54 
plus £110.89 to cover costs, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. And I still 
think £250 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mrs S, so Im going to proceed on 
that basis.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mrs S £3,851.54 plus £110.89 to cover her losses as set out above
- Pay Mrs S a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman