DRN-1840558
The complaint
Mr U complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
MYJAR approved one loan for Mr U on 22 November 2017. It was for £425, repayable in 
three instalments in December 2017, then January and February 2018. The first instalment 
of just over £167 appears to have been paid by Mr U. The other two instalments were due to 
be just over £218 each and my understanding is that these have not been paid. 
Mr U applied and told MYJAR that his income was £3,000, he was living with his parents, 
and his outgoings were around £300. MYJAR increased that expenditure figure to around 
£1,000 and carried out a credit search. It did not reveal anything untoward in November 
2017. The loan was approved. 
One of our adjudicator's looked at this complaint and thought that MYJAR had not done 
anything wrong to approve the loan given Mr U's application details and MYJAR's checks 
carried out at the time. Mr U disagreed and wanted an ombudsman to consider it. He says 
that other complaints relating to loans taken around the same time as the MYJAR loan have 
been upheld. So he did not understand why this one had not been upheld.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending 
was unsustainable.
MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr U could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower will not be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Us complaint. I need to explain to Mr U that it would 
be disproportionate to have carried out a full financial review for this first loan with MYJAR in 
November 2017. I think that the checks carried out were proportionate to the loan being 
asked for, the fact Mr U was a new customer and in light of the £3,000 declared income and 
low expenditure figures he gave to MYJAR when he applied. And I have seen from 
MYJAR's records that it increased Mr U's notional expenditure figure in line with its usual 
practice where it considers that an applicant has given a relatively low figure. And even with 
that then the three instalments of around £167 and £218 (twice) would have appeared 
affordable for Mr U at that time. I do not uphold Mr U's complaint.
I appreciate that current circumstances are difficult for Mr U and that various matters are 
proving to be challenging. So this non-uphold decision will come as a disappointment. There 
will be a debt to repay and I remind MYJAR to treat Mr U and his repayment of that debt in a 
positive and sympathetic manner which takes into account all of Mr U's financial situation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr U's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman