DRN-2089380
The complaint
Miss W complains about Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) pursuing her for its fee 
while she was experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss W instructed BCS to represent her in a complaint against a lender about mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI). Following this, Miss W received a cheque from the 
lender for around £650. Miss W says she assumed the cheque was from BCS and it had 
taken its fee. 
About seven months later, in April 2020, a representative from BCS phoned Miss W and 
asked to her to pay its fee. Miss W says she explained she was out of work due to lockdown, 
with no income, but BCS suggested she borrow the money. BCS tried calling Miss W several 
times over the following week and left her voicemails. It also sent her text messages and 
emails.
Miss W complained to BCS about being harassed. She said shed already explained she 
was in financial difficulty. In the meantime, BCS passed Miss Ws account on to a debt 
collection agency. An additional charge was added but this was removed when Miss W 
agreed to pay the full amount of the invoice, after selling her car.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ws concerns. He thought BCS should have investigated 
Miss Ws financial circumstances when she said she couldnt pay the fee. He acknowledged 
BCS had waived the extra charge applied, but recommended it pay Miss W £50 for distress 
and inconvenience.
BCS disagreed with our investigators view. It said it wasnt authorised to do payment plans. 
Miss W had signed to state she would contact and pay BCSs fee within seven days of 
receiving cleared funds and it had asked her to keep a copy of its terms and conditions. It 
said it does try to help customers in financial difficulty but wasnt sure how it could help a 
customer if they blankly refuse to pay and stop contact. 
As BCS has disagreed with our investigators opinion, Miss Ws complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations require a claims management company to treat a customer who is 
unable to pay fees and charges when they fall due with forbearance and due consideration, 
including by allowing the customer a reasonable opportunity to pay the fee and charges.
According to BCSs terms and conditions, Miss W should have paid its fee within seven days 
of the settlement from the lender being credited to her account. Miss W received the 
settlement in September 2019. But she says she thought BCSs fee had already been taken 
from this. I appreciate BCS feels she should have known that wasnt the case and was trying 
to avoid paying its fee. But I think this was likely to be an oversight on Miss Ws part. She 
didnt dispute owing the money when BCS contacted her in April 2020 and I havent seen 
any evidence of her refusing to pay.
Miss W says she explained she was unable to pay the fee because of her financial 
circumstances when the BCS representative contacted her on 9 April. BCS says it isnt able 
to provide a recording of this conversation.  But in the email Miss W sent to BCS on 14 April 
she says shed explained to the representative that due to the current pandemic she was out 
of work with zero income. She was worried about finding money to buy food and pay bills.
 
BCSs contact history also shows a text message from Miss W where she says shes happy 
to pay the fee when she starts working again. This appears to have been received shortly 
before BCS passed her debt on to the debt collection agency. So, Im satisfied BCS was 
aware that Miss W was experiencing financial difficulties, when it decided to pass the debt 
on to be collected by its agents.
The debt was passed on only seven days after BCS issued the invoice. From what Ive seen 
and what both parties have said, BCS wasnt willing to allow Miss W extra time to pay, 
despite being aware of her financial hardship. BCS has told us it called her eleven times in 
that week and also sent her six text messages. This was during what must have been a 
stressful and worrying time for Miss W who wasnt working and had no income. 
I can see BCS agreed to waive the additional charges and Miss W paid the full fee in early 
June. But I dont think BCS gave consideration to Miss Ws inability to pay the fee as it 
should have. And I think this caused Miss W some unnecessary worry and distress. So, I 
think it would be fair for BCS to pay Miss W £50 to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
shes experienced.
Putting things right
BCS should pay Miss W £50 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman