DRN-4500656
The complaint
Mr P complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) avoided his motor insurance 
policy and refused to pay his claim after his pickup truck was hit by a third party.
What happened
Mr P took out a van insurance policy with One Insurance via a price comparison website. It 
was a van insurance policy due to the type of vehicle it was (a pickup truck), but it wasnt 
being used for commercial purposes. Instead, Mr P used it for social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes, as an individual consumer rather than a business.
Whilst parked, Mr Ps vehicle was hit by a third-party, so he contacted One Insurance to 
make a claim and his vehicle was recovered from the scene. 
However, One Insurance said Mr P answered the question they asked about modifications 
incorrectly when taking out the policy. And One Insurance considered this to be a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid his policy, decline his claim and 
return the premiums paid for the policy.
Mr P was unhappy with One Insurance, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
One Insurance had taken reasonable actions in avoiding the policy, declining the claim and 
returning the premiums. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he took out the policy. One Insurance says Mr P should have disclosed that his vehicle 
had been modified, which included a modified bonnet, roll bars and large stickers had been 
added to the bodywork.
Ive looked at the question Mr P was asked when taking out the policy via the comparison 
website.
This asked:
Has the van been modified in any way?
It then explained:
A vehicle is considered modified if it has been changed in any way since it was first 
supplied by the manufacturer.
This would include: 
Changes to the body work, suspension or brakes, cosmetic changes and changes to 
the engine management system or exhaust system. If you are unsure whether 
changes to the vehicle are classed as a modification, please check with your chosen 
provider before purchasing.
Mr P answered no to this. Mr P says that he was told when buying his vehicle that the 
bonnet and roll bars were standard so he didnt think they would be classed as 
modifications. Mr P also said that he didnt think he needed to disclose the large stickers 
hed added to the bodywork as he didnt think they would be classed as a modification as 
they didnt change the performance of the vehicle.
Even if I was to accept Mr P was of the understanding the bonnet and roll bars were 
standard so he didnt think he needed to disclose these as modifications, he added stickers 
to his vehicle. I think the question outlined above was clear in outlining both changes from 
the way the vehicle was from the manufacturer, and cosmetic changes, would be classed as 
a modification which needed to be disclosed. I think Mr P should have answered yes based 
on the stickers he had added or, at the very least, queried whether the stickers would be 
considered as modifications with the insurer  as set out in the guidance supporting the 
question he was asked (above). So, I dont think Mr P took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said his vehicle hadnt been modified.
One Insurance has provided its underwriting criteria to this service to show what they would 
have done if Mr P had declared that his vehicle had been modified. I cant share this in full 
as it is commercially sensitive. However, Im satisfied One Insurance has demonstrated it 
wouldnt have offered cover if Mr P had disclosed the modifications. Whilst Mr P says he 
thought the roll bar and bonnet were standard, Im satisfied they also wouldnt have offered 
cover if he had declared the stickers he had added.This means Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
One Insurance has said Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or 
reckless. Mr P could have contacted One Insurance if he was unsure whether the stickers 
would be a modification, based on the questions and information presented during the sale, 
but he didnt do so. I think One Insurance has acted reasonably in classing Mr Ps 
misrepresentation as careless.
As Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions One Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
This outlines that in the event of a careless misrepresentation, where the insurer would not 
have entered into the consumer contract on any terms, as is the case here, the insurer can 
avoid the policy and refuse all claims but will need to return the premiums.
Therefore, Im satisfied One Insurance was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, One Insurance does 
not have to deal with his claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing One Insurance to rely on it to avoid Mr Ps policy 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Therefore, I dont think One Insurance has acted unfairly.
Our investigator also explained to Mr P that One Insurance has been unable to recover their 
outlay on the claim for recovery and storage charges so far, so there is currently an open 
claim recorded. Once they have recovered their outlay, this would then be amended to 
notification only. I dont think thats unfair. She also explained that a fault claim being 
recorded doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder is responsible for the accident, instead it 
means an insurer has been unable to recover their outlay. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman