DRN-4428103
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed her account in 
December 2022 without giving her any notice.
Ms B is also unhappy that Barclays didnt provide a copy of her statements when she asked 
for them. Ms B also says that Barclays didnt send her the final response letter, all she 
received was an email notifying her there was a document to view on her online bank profile 
 which by then she no longer had access to.
What happened
In May 2022 Ms B received a text message saying that Barclays were planning on closing 
her account. However, Ms B dismissed the text message as being a scam.
In December 2022 Ms B received an email informing her that her statements were ready to 
view online. On the same day Ms B received a text message saying that her accounts had 
been closed.
Ms B complained to Barclays as she says, apart from the text - which shed dismissed as a 
scam - she hadnt been notified that her account would be closed. Because of this, Ms B 
says that she was not given the opportunity to move the money out of her account before it 
was closed. Ms B asked that Barclays reconsider its decision, especially as she had been a 
long-standing customer.
Barclays issued a final response letter and explained that as its products are designed for 
customers living within the UK. Barclays said that as Ms Bs registered address was located 
outside of the UK, it had decided to close her account. 
After Ms B referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
investigators assessed the complaint and they didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the outcome reached by the investigator, Ms Bs complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint for broadly the same 
reasons that the investigator gave. I will explain why.
Was Barclays able to close the account?
Having looked through the account terms and conditions I can see that they say:
If you arent eligible for the account you hold
We can close an account (or stop or restrict a service) if we find out that you arent
eligible for it. This may include the following.
 You (or a joint account holder) reside outside the UK or do not have leave to
remain in the UK.
So in the circumstances, I think Barclays had reasonable grounds in which to take the 
decision to close Ms Bs account.
Did Barclays provide notice?
Although the terms and conditions say that Barclays is able to close a bank account if the 
account holder lives outside of the UK, they also say that Barclays will try to tell the account 
holder in advance, if it needs to do this.
In this case I understand Ms B received a text message from Barclays saying that it was 
planning on closing her account. I can also see that letters were uploaded to Ms Bs Cloud 
It document inbox, on her online banking profile. These letters were dated 10 May 2022 
(uploaded 12 May 2022), 8 August 2022 and 7 November 2022 and they explained that 
Barclays intended on closing Ms Bs accounts by 2 December 2022, if Ms B was unable to 
provide a UK address before that date. Barclays has explained that these letters were only 
added to Ms Bs Cloud It inbox, and not posted or emailed, as Ms B had selected to receive 
correspondence by online.
So, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that Barclays had given (or at least had attempted to 
give) Ms B reasonable notice that the account would be closed, a number of months before 
it eventually was.
Ms B has explained that she thought the text message she received was a scam message. 
In the circumstances, I think it is entirely understandable why Ms B was wary of the 
message. I also think it is entirely understandable why Ms B did not want to click on the link 
in the message. I say this especially as Ms B says that Barclays did not typically send her 
text messages.
However, when Ms B later logged into her account on 23 May 2022, had she checked to see 
if there were any messages in her inbox informing her about the potential closure of her 
account, I think she likely wouldve seen one. I say this because Barclays has provided 
evidence to show that a letter had been sent to her inbox a few days beforehand, explaining 
that her account would be closed due to her address being outside of the UK. But if it is the 
case that Ms B didnt think to check her Cloud It inbox, I cant reasonably hold Barclays 
responsible for this  especially as the evidence indicates that it had sent a text message 
and then sent the notice to close letters in accordance with Ms Bs communication 
preferences. 
Ms B has also explained that although she received email notifications when her statements 
were ready to be viewed, she didnt receive any email notification that Barclays had sent her 
the notice to close letters. 
Barclays has explained that because Ms B had not been active on her account for a period 
of 90 days, this is why it says that alternative methods, such as push notification, SMS and 
in app notifications are used to notify the account holder in such instances. Barclays is 
unable to provide further evidence around what other notifications were used, due to the 
time that has elapsed since the letters were sent. But given that Ms B says that she received 
a text message from Barclays around the time of the first letter, this makes me think it is 
likely that alternative notifications were still being sent.
So, taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Following its decision to close Ms Bs account, I think it took reasonable steps 
to notify Ms B of her options using Ms Bs selected communication preference. And, based 
on the letters that were uploaded to Ms Bs Cloud It inbox, Im satisfied that it had given Ms 
B plenty of time in which to consider her options before the accounts were eventually closed. Statements
I understand that Ms B asked Barclays for a copy of her account statements, but says she 
never received them. Im glad to see that during the investigators review of the complaint, 
they were able to provide Ms B with a copy of the statements. So it seems that this aspect of 
her complaint has been resolved. 
Final response letter
Ms B says that Barclays uploaded the final response letter to her online account, even 
though she no longer had access to it by that stage. Its not clear why Ms B received such a 
notification  I suspect this was likely to have been automated, due to her existing 
communication preference being recorded as receiving correspondence online. But Im 
satisfied that Barclays did send the final response letter by post as well, to Ms Bs overseas 
address. 
As such, whilst Im sorry to hear that Ms B didnt receive the letter, it does look it was sent to 
her. So I cant say that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably if it is the case that Ms B 
didnt receive it.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman