DRN-1360362
The complaint
Mr S has complained to Standard Life Assurance Limited about the lack of information he 
was given about the endowment policy when he took it out. The policy matured in 2011 with 
a shortfall and he had to pay additional funds to repay his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr S took out the policy through an independent adviser, Handley & Associates in 1986. The 
policy was set up to repay a mortgage of £21,000, but it matured with a shortfall of over 
£6,600 in April 2011. 
Mr S complained to Standard Life about the sale of the policy in 2019. It didn't uphold his 
complaint as it wasn't responsible for the sale - that had been carried out by an independent 
party. Our investigator also didn't find Standard Life responsible - all the parties, including Mr 
S acknowledged the sale was conducted by Handley & Associates. And she explained why 
we couldn't look at a complaint against them. 
Mr S has asked for the matter to be referred for a decision as it needs resolving either 
against Standard Life or Handley & Associates. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint, particularly as he had to meet the 
shortfall when the policy matured in 2011. But there is little I can add to the investigator's 
findings. 
All parties, including Mr S, acknowledge that it was Handley & Associates that sold him the 
endowment policy. As such, it was responsible for ensuring he was provided with information 
about the policy and how it worked. I appreciate that business is no longer trading, but that 
doesn't mean Standard Life becomes responsible for any of its omissions during that sales 
process. And I can only ask a business to put something right if it was responsible for 
anything that went wrong. I therefore don't uphold this complaint against Standard Life. 
Ms S has also referred to resolving the matter with Handley & Associates. But as he knows, 
that business is no longer trading, so there is no party with which to resolve this matter. But 
even if there was, this isn't a complaint we could look into. That's because this policy was 
sold in 1986, before the introduction of The Financial Services Act 1986, which came into 
effect on 29 April 1988. As the sale was conducted before then, we can only investigate 
complaints if a business has voluntarily given us permission to do so; there is no record 
Handley & Associates ever gave us that permission. 
I understand this will be disappointing for Mr S, but I don't uphold his complaint. My final decision
For the reasons give, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman