DRN-2656229
The complaint
Mr O complaints TransUnion International UK Limited has added wrong bank account details 
to his credit file.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr O says he noticed a current account showing on his credit file. Mr O says 
this information is incorrect as he doesnt have a relationship with this particular bank. When 
Mr O complained to TransUnion about this, they said they werent responsible and instead, 
directed him to the bank who provided TransUnion with this information. Ill refer to the bank 
in this decision as H.
Mr O then requested a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) from H. H wrote to Mr O to 
confirm that based on the information he had provided them with, they were unable to locate 
anything on their systems in Mr Os name. Mr O wants this account removed from his credit 
file and he also wants compensation, as he says he was denied credit due to this error.
TransUnion say they dont believe they have made an error as they report information as 
provided by the data supplier  in this case H.
Unhappy with TransUnions response, Mr O brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Os concerns. In summary, he said TransUnion wasnt 
responsible for the information on Mr Os credit file. And that TransUnion was only reporting 
information which was provided to them by H. Therefore, he didnt think TransUnion acted 
unfairly. 
Mr O disagreed. He said hed provided us with enough information to show he doesnt have 
a relationship with H. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit reference agencies, such as TransUnion, store information thats provided to them by 
lenders and other data providers. Its the data provider that tells the credit reference 
agencies what to record. And any complaint by a customer about the information that's 
recorded on their credit file needs to be made to the data provider that provided the 
information  not to the credit reference agency thats recorded it.
I appreciate Mr O has provided us with a letter from H which says they havent been able to 
find any current accounts in a specified date range in Mr Os name. However, TransUnion 
have explained that theyre unable to amend any information on Mr Os credit file without the 
permission of the lender that provided the information. I can see from the information 
provided that they raised a dispute with H and were provided with confirmation that the data 
is correct. So, I think TransUnion have followed the correct process when a customer has 
raised a dispute about incorrect information on their credit file  like in Mr Os case.
I understand Mr O has questioned the validity of this information as he says the dispute log 
provided by TransUnion doesnt have any of his details. However, Ive got no reason to 
believe this dispute wasnt raised to H in relation to Mr O.
I can understand Mr Os frustration about the incorrect information being recorded on his 
credit file and sympathise with him for the distress this is causing him. But I cant hold 
TransUnion responsible for this for the reasons Ive explained. Therefore, I cant say that 
TransUnion have acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman