DRN-3150669
The complaint
Ms R complains that Revolut Ltd completed a transfer by error and wont transfer the money
back to her.
What happened
Ms R attempted to make a transfer to one of her contacts on 11 July 2020 for 250EUR. This
transfer failed as she had insufficient funds in her account to make the transfer. On 28 July
2020, Ms R deposited 600EUR into her account and was surprised that Revolut had made a
250EUR transfer to the contact she attempted to pay on 11 July.
Ms R contacted Revolut on 28 July 2020. She attempted to cancel the transfer as she did
not want her contact to have this money. Revolut were unable to get a response from Ms Rs
contact and so the money was unable to be transferred back to Ms R.
Ms R made a complaint to Revolut. The complaint was not upheld. Revolut said that
although Ms R had contacted them to cancel the transfer, the transfer had already been
made. As the transfer was to an internal account, the payment was instant and Revolut were
unable to return the funds without the beneficiaries permission. As the beneficiary of the
funds had not responded to Revoluts messages, then Revolut were unable to reverse the
transfer.
Ms R brought her complaint to our service and said she wanted Revolut to pay her the
250EUR to resolve her complaint. Our investigator did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. He said
as Ms R did not have the funds to pay her contact on 11 July 2020, the payment was
processed as a pre-order. This meant the transfer was pending until Ms R deposited
enough money into her Revolut account for the transfer to be made.
Our investigator said that Revolut had sent him an example of the message which would
have been displayed to Ms R at the time the original transfer didnt complete, which included
the words well process the payment after receiving your money. Our investigator also said
that Revolut had followed their terms and conditions by trying to contact the beneficiary, but
they were unable to do so. Revolut informed Ms R of this and suggested, since the
beneficiary was in her contact list, that Ms R should contact the beneficiary to get her money
back and if she was unsuccessful with this then she could contact the relevant authorities.
In conclusion, our investigator said to Ms R that she may not have intended to set up the
pre-order payment and she feels that it was an error on Revoluts behalf, but the pre-order
was a feature of the account and not an error with the mobile application (app) or by Revolut.
And, as Revolut acted in line with their terms and conditions by trying to recover the payment
then he thought Revolut acted fairly when addressing the issue.
Ms R asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint as she said the fact that she wanted
to make a transfer the first time which didn't work due to insufficient funds should not be
shown once the account was funded. She also said that she had no way of cancelling the
pre-order and this process wasnt clear to her.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing Ive looked at here is the pre-order process. So I asked Revolut how a
customer would know that they have processed a pre-order transfer and how they would be
able to cancel the transfer if they had changed their mind. As our investigator explained
previously, Ms R would have been shown a screen which said, well process the payment
after receiving your money. At the top of the screen I can see that it says transfer 
waiting. So I am persuaded that it would be clear to Ms R that the transfer was waiting to be
completed and it would be completed after receiving her money  in this instance a deposit
into her account to cover the transfer.
Revolut have also confirmed that this transfer could have been cancelled if Ms R had
changed her mind before she deposited money into her account. To do this, she could have
visited the home screen, clicked on pending action and then clicked cancel on the pre-order
details screen. So because the pre-order section would have been visible to Ms R on the
home screen of the app, then Im persuaded that Ms R had the opportunity to cancel the
pending transfer if she wished to do so.
Ive then considered what Ms R has said about there being an error on the app which
allowed this to happen. So I asked Revolut if there were any app errors on 11 July 2020,
when the pre-order was placed, or on 28 July 2020 when the deposit was made into the
account and the transfer automatically happened. But Revolut confirmed there were no
errors on the app on these days. So Im satisfied that an error on the app didnt cause the
transfer to happen, but it was processed in line with how a pre-order should have been.
Finally, Ive looked at the actions of Revolut once Ms R has informed them she wished to
cancel/reverse the transfer. Ive seen the messages from Revolut to the beneficiary of the
transfer. They attempted to open communication with the beneficiary on four separate days
over a 24 day period. So I do think that they have followed section 15 of their terms and
conditions by trying to get Ms Rs money back, but as they explain here, sometimes they are
unable to do so and it isnt guaranteed that they can do this. So for the reasons Ive
previously given, Im persuaded that Revolut havent made an error. So it follows that I do
not intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
Decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman