DRN-3589388
The complaint
Mrs C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
Mrs C is represented by Mr C.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold British Gas responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a home with a central heating boiler. From at least 2015, Mrs C had a 
British Gas Home Care policy to cover the boiler. We categorise that as a home emergency 
insurance policy, although it covers more than emergencies. It also covers an annual service 
visit.
For the policy year from June 2016, British Gas didnt do an annual service. Mrs C 
complained to British Gas. It refunded £65.00 and paid a further £80.00.
The policy was renewed for each year including the year from June 2021.
In January 2022, Mr C complained to British Gas that it hadnt done an annual service each 
year or looked after the boiler properly, so it had gone rusty.
By a final response dated mid-March 2022, British Gas turned down the complaint.
Mr C sent British Gas a reply to the final response. He brought the complaint to us without 
delay. As Mrs C is the policyholder, we have regarded her as the eligible complainant.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
British Gas had acted unfairly or unreasonably. He didnt think that British Gas had acted in 
an unfair way to prevent rust forming on the boiler.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr C says, in summary, that:
If British Gas had done an annual service earlier, then they would've resolved the 
leak on the annual service, and he wouldnt have had to pay a call-out 
charge/excess. 
He has sent us a document from a company that looked at the boiler in July 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We cant usually investigate acts or omissions that have been the subject of 
a complaint and a final response which the consumer didnt refer to us within six months of 
that final response.
Under a yearly policy with automatic renewal, the policy year will start on the same day each 
year. A home boiler service can only take place with an appointment between the consumer 
and the business. The service is unlikely to be on the same day each year.
An annual service could mean a service in the year from 1 January, or from the renewal 
date, or from the date of the last service. So there is a need to define what annual means. 
The British Gas policy terms have changed in some respects from time to time. In my view 
the changes took effect on Mrs C from the renewal date following each change. But the 
British Gas policy terms have, for many years, included terms along the following lines:
Definitions
annual service
- a check in each period of agreement
period of agreement
- the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out
Annual service
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service
visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), 
we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows that its 
necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve 
looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Cancellation charges
If you or we cancel your agreement or any products and weve already completed 
work for you since you bought or renewed them, you may have to pay cancellation 
charges.
The table on the right side of this page shows you the amount you may have to pay..
Annual service £65.00
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless 
we caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
Since about June 2020, the British Gas policy term about reasonable timescales has also 
included a term as follows:During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines 
concerning restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair 
or visit until such time as the restrictions have been eased.
British Gas dealt with a complaint in relation to the service missed in the policy year from 
June 2016 to June 2017. As it paid compensation, I find it likely that it sent a final response 
in 2017 or 2018.Keeping in mind the six-month time limit, I will look at the policy years 
starting from June 2017.
Each time the policy renewed, British Gas sent Mrs C a renewal letter that included an 
Insurance Product Information Document that made clear (albeit by asterisks and a footnote) 
that the annual services may be more than 12 months apart.
From its records, I find that British Gas did annual services as follows:
November 2017  
October 2018 
July 2019 
November 2020 
February 2022 
British Gas didnt do a service in the calendar year 2021 and I can see why Mr C thought 
British Gas had missed a service. But the for the policy year from June 2020, there was the 
service in November 2020. And for the policy year from June 2021, there was the service in 
February 2022. Overall there were five annual services in the five policy years from June 
2017.
From the final response, I think that Mr C had complained to British Gas in mid-January 
2022. And from the British Gas records Ive seen a note of a visit in late January 2022 as 
follows:
rewashed hw outlet pipe leak resolved and tried dealing with complaint with office
From what Mr C has said, the British Gas policy required him to pay an excess or fixed fee 
for that visit. After the final response in March 2022, Mr C replied to British Gas asking why it 
had made a charge for a visit he believed wouldnt have been needed if British Gas had 
done the annual service earlier than February 2022. 
From the note of the visit in January 2022, I find it likely that he had complained to British 
Gas not only about a missed service but also about the charge.
However, I havent found that British Gas did anything wrong by not doing the annual service 
(for the policy year from June 2021) until February 2022. I dont hold British Gas responsible 
for Mrs Cs need to ask British Gas to make a repair visit in January 2022.
From what Mr C has said, Mrs C didnt renew the British Gas policy from June 2022. 
From the document of the company that visited in July 2022, I note that the automatic air 
vent had been leaking and needed replacement.
In my view, Mr C has fallen well short of showing that there was a leak that British Gas 
shouldve identified during an earlier visit. In any event, Mr C hasnt shown that British Gas 
caused a leak or damage to the boiler.So (keeping in mind the policy terms) I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas 
to pay compensation or do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman