DRN-2271975
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sky Insurance Services Group Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr M wanted a short-term car insurance policy. On 29 June 2020 he got an online quote for 
28 days cover. He complained to Sky Insurance that it had quoted £159.78 but he ended up 
paying an extra £26.00  a total of £185.78. By a final response dated 29 June 2020, Sky 
Insurance turned down the complaint. Mr M brought his complaint to us the same day.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Sky Insurance had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
There is no evidence to suggest what Sky Insurance sent us were genuine 
screenshots and not modified before sending them to us; this is easily done.
The information requested in the quote screen was comprehensive so (apart from the 
credit card details) there was no new information entered between the initial quote 
and when the quote was accepted.
The screenshot he sent us clearly states the lower price.
When he pressed the purchase button is when the price changed.
When Sky tried it 4 times adding the same information as he did, they get a higher 
price, this is re-engineered by them to reflect that price to justify the higher price.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive looked at documents from Mr M and from Sky Insurance. 
Mr M has sent us two screenshots. Each of them shows a quote of £159.78. One of the 
screenshots is of a list of quotes including that one. That screenshot has been saved in a file 
that bears a time of 10:59. The other screenshot shows only the quote of £159.78. That 
screenshot has been saved in a file that bears a time of 10:52.
Sky Insurance sent us documents. One of them was a screenshot showing a quote of 
£185.78. Another document contains the figure of £185.78 and says that it includes £26.00 
for excess reduction insurance. Another document records the payment of £185.78  timed 
at 10:35. 
Another document is a spreadsheet showing five quotes of £185.78, four of which Sky 
Insurance says it did as tests after Mr M complained. The spreadsheet doesnt record the 
times of the quotes.  
In its submissions to us, Sky Insurance said it couldnt show us any other screenshots to 
show the customer journey. And it couldnt explain Mr Ms screenshots.
Our investigator had a web-chat with Sky Insurance. It said that the quoted price wouldve 
included excess reduction insurance. It said that any increase in the quote wouldve been 
because of further information from Mr M. 
But Sky Insurance hasnt identified any further information. So I accept Mr Ms statement 
that there wasnt any. And I dont find it likely that it is a coincidence that the £26.00 increase 
(about which Mr M complains) is the same amount as the excess reduction insurance.
I cant explain Mr Ms screenshots. But the payment record shows that Mr M made the 
payment through a well-known online checkout. So Im satisfied that Mr M mustve known he 
was being asked to pay £185.78  and he went ahead and paid that amount. So I dont find 
that Sky Insurance treated him unfairly by taking that payment.
Im satisfied that  as it was only a 28-day policy  the usual 14-day cooling-off period didnt 
apply. 
Overall I dont find that Sky Insurance treated Mr M unfairly by declining to cancel the policy 
or refund any of the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Sky Insurance Services Group Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman