DRN-4439000
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Marshmallow Insurance Limited unfairly and unreasonably 
cancelled his motor policy as if it never existed. It retained the premium payment for 
misrepresentation following a claim made after an accident, where the car was deemed a 
total loss. 
What happened
Mr L bought a policy for his car online on 20 April 2022 to start on 21 April 2022. Mr L was 
using this car which was bought by hire purchase by his brother-in-law who lived abroad.  
When he went online and bought this policy, Mr L said the questions didnt quite match his 
circumstances, but he said he made sure it was known that the car was ultimately owned by 
a finance company.
Mr L was involved in a single vehicle accident on 21 October 2022, and he made his claim to 
Marshmallow. Ultimately Marshmallow decided the information given on the policy 
application form was very different to what Mr L said after the accident, as it said this was 
the first it knew that Mr Ls brother-in-law was the registered owner and indeed had the 
contract with the finance company. 
Marshmallows underwriting guide didnt permit it to insure cars under the type of 
arrangement Mr L had with his brother-in-law. So, it voided the policy, as in cancelled it as if 
it never existed. This meant it wouldnt pay his claim for the total loss of his car following the 
accident. It also decided Mr L had deliberately and carelessly misrepresented the facts of the 
matter which meant under the relevant law  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act (CIDRA) it was permitted to also retain the premium.
 
Mr L complained but Marshmallow wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint 
to us. The investigator was of the view Marshmallows stance was correct, so he didnt think 
it had done anything wrong. Mr L didnt agree, so his complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October, and I said the following: 
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint but only for careless 
misrepresentation, which doesnt actually change things that much for Mr L. Ill now 
explain why.
 
I consider Mr L was sincere in trying to insure this car properly. However, when the 
options for this policy didnt quite match his situation, he was of the view that using 
the nearest best option was enough. Sadly, that isnt the case, and I dont consider 
Marshmallow was wrong to say it wouldnt insure this car, given how it was owned 
and who was the registered keeper. Whilst Mr L says someone can be insured as a 
named driver on someone elses car is correct, however the registered keeper also 
needs to be the policyholder and the person who arranges the policy, not the named 
driver. What Mr L did here was try to insure himself as the policyholder and therefore 
the registered keeper of the car.
However, I dont think Mr L set out to lie his way through the policy application 
process. Saying someone behaved in a deliberate manner or was so careless so as 
to be reckless as to the truth is quite a high bar to attain evidentially. Its clear to me 
that Mr L wasnt behaving in this way. He explained this was his first policy. He 
sincerely believed when he couldnt find the right option to describe his situation that 
the nearest one was sufficient. One of the issues with how people buy policies online 
is that its not understood that if an option isnt provided for your circumstances that 
effectively means that that insurer doesnt want to take on the risk youre presenting. 
I dont consider this was made sufficiently clear in Mr Ls online journey here. Also, 
what Mr L ought to have done when his circumstances didnt quite fit the options 
available was to phone the insurer to discuss his situation. This also isnt made clear 
in Mr Ls online journey.  
Therefore, I consider Mr L was simply careless as detailed under CIDRA. 
Unfortunately for Mr L that means Marshmallow are still entitled to void his policy, as 
in cancel it as if it never existed. This is because its clear from its underwriting guide 
that Marshmallow doesnt insure cars owned in the manner Mr Ls car was. So, if Mr 
L had phoned Marshmallow to discuss his situation, Marshmallow would have told 
him, it couldnt insure him and this car. Therefore, it remains that Marshmallow is 
entitled not to deal with his claim given the provisions of CIDRA. Every insurer is 
entitled under the regulations to decide which risks it wishes to insure and which it 
doesnt. And I have no ability to demand insurers insure any situation, which they 
clearly dont want to do. 
However, because I dont consider this was deliberate misrepresentation as required 
under CIDRA, that means Marshmallow wasnt entitled to retain Mr Ls premium 
payment. And therefore, I consider this should be refunded to Mr L with interest.
Mr L agreed with my provisional decision. Marshmallow didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld as I detailed in 
my provisional decision. This is because Mr L agreed with my provisional decision and 
Marshmallow didnt respond. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons I now uphold this complaint on the basis Mr L was merely careless in 
his misrepresentation of the facts of the matter.
I now require Marshmallow Insurance Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr L any premium he had paid, adding interest of 8% simple per year from 
the date of its decision to hold Mr L responsible for deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation to the date it refunds him. If income tax is to be deducted from the 
interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr L for HMRC purposes.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman