DRN-3996002
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 12 December 2018, Ms Ms credit card was opened by Barclaycard with an initial 
credit limit of £800. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Ms M complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ms complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it relied in part on information that Ms M provided at the 
time of application to assess affordability. Ms M told Barclaycard at the point of lending 
that she was employed and her income was regular and not modest. The initial credit limit 
was not an excessive or unreasonable amount given the income and the maximum 
monthly payments for that credit were not immodest.
Barclaycard said they carried out a credit search in Ms Ms name to assess her level of 
debt at that time and to understand how she had been managing that debt. With that 
information and using their own scoring metric, Barclaycard decided to agree to the 
modest credit limit of £800. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of 
the lending decision.
Ms M supplied her credit report that confirms what Barclaycard saw in 2018, that whilst Ms 
M did have other borrowings at the time of application, she was managing her credit well. 
Ive noted that at the point of the lending in 2018 Ms Ms credit history appeared to be in 
good order, no defaults or CCJs and no recent history of late payments.  
So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, Ms M 
was affording her existing credit. And so, Barclaycard were not put on notice of any reason 
not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that Barclaycard 
had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make 
more searching enquiries of Ms Ms financial situation. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Barclaycard at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Barclaycard acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
was unreasonable. 
Ms M thinks that because a complaint about a different account was upheld, that this should 
also be upheld. But we assess each case on the individual circumstances of each particular 
complaint.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Barclaycard provided to Ms M was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman