DRN-1508552
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the time Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) took to settle her 
claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview of the key events here.
Mrs C had the benefit of a LEI policy which she was using to fund the costs of legal action 
she was taking in relation to a personal injury claim. The policy had a limit of indemnity of 
£25,000.
Mrs C received an invoice from her solicitor which she forwarded to RSA in August 2018 
requesting reimbursement. In November 2018 RSA explained to Mrs C that only £2,395.79 
remained of the indemnity. As the invoice shed submitted was more than this, they said that 
was all they would pay. RSA also asked for evidence that the invoice had been paid.
Mrs C responded two days later to explain that the settlement was paid to her lawyer and 
that his fees had been deducted from that amount. RSA acknowledged receipt of that email 
and Mrs C says she was told that a payment had been raised on 7 December 2018. 
Mrs C chased the payment on numerous occasions and raised a complaint in March 2019. 
The cheque was eventually issued on 10 June 2019. Mrs C brought her complaint to our 
service, she was unhappy with the service shed received and the delays in her receiving the 
cheque. 
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. She recommended that 
RSA pay Mrs C £350 for the impact of the delays and the service they provided. She also 
recommended that 8% simple interest be added to the settlement amount between 7 
December 2018 and 10 June 2019.
RSA didnt initially respond to our investigator and so the complaint was progressed for a 
final decision. RSA later said they disagreed with our investigators suggested redress but 
did offer Mrs C £200 in compensation which they considered to be fair. Our investigator put 
this offer to Mrs C who declined it. As agreement couldnt be found, the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
RSA have explained that Mrs Cs claim was very old and it required information to be sought 
from their archives. They explained that this was always going to take longer than a current 
claim, but they acknowledge it did take longer than they anticipated. They also explained 
that some of their records are managed by a third party and that some of the delays were 
beyond their control.
I accept that Mrs Cs claim was old, it referred to an initial incident back in 2005. I also 
appreciate that there was more than one party involved in handling Mrs Cs claim. But as 
underwriter  RSA are responsible for the third parties involved in processing the settlement 
of a claim under the policy.
I think Mrs C received poor service from RSA. I think there were significant avoidable delays 
and they could have been more pro-active in keeping her updated. Whilst I dont think RSA 
intentionally delayed the settlement, I do think things could have been handled much better. 
RSA themselves acknowledged they could have done better when they offered £200 
compensation. 
It was primarily Mrs C chasing RSA for updates, rather than them keeping her informed. 
Ultimately, RSA had all the information they needed to settle the claim in early November 
2018 and the cheque wasnt issued for over six months. It was not an insignificant amount of 
money that she was waiting for and Im satisfied the delays and poor service had an impact 
on Mrs C  causing her frustration and inconvenience. There had also been prior delays and 
a lack of response from RSA between August and November 2018.
My role here is to step back and look at the circumstances as a whole. Having done so, I 
think the £350 our investigator suggested is a fair amount to compensate for the trouble and 
upset the delays and poor service had on Mrs C. 
RSA also questioned whether 8% simple interest should be added. Ive thought about this, 
but I still think that it should. I think that is a fair rate of interest to compensate for being 
without money that, but for RSAs failings, she otherwise would have had access to sooner. I 
acknowledge it isnt simple to give a precise date as to when the claim ought to have been 
settled. But Im satisfied that our investigators suggestion of between 7 December 2018 and 
10 June 2019 (when the cheque was finally issued) is a fair time span for the calculation of 
the interest.  
Putting things right
To put things right RSA must take the below actions.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
Pay Mrs C £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused;
Pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount of the cheque to be calculated 
between 7 December 2018 and 10 June 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman