DRN-3427615
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the temporary block Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) placed on 
their joint back accounts and the way Lloyds then handled the communications surrounding 
this.
What happened
On 31 March 2021 Mr and Mrs D received money into one of the joint bank accounts they 
held with Lloyds. This was sent from a family members account. The following day Lloyds 
placed a block on all Mr and Mrs Ds accounts after they were notified of possible fraudulent 
activity on the family members bank account. Mr and Mrs D realised there was a block when 
they received a notification on their mobile phones that said they couldnt use a digital 
version of their bank cards.
The same day Mr and Mrs D both called Lloyds around the same time to try to resolve the 
problem. They said they spent about three to four hours on the phone in total.
Mr and Mrs D ended up on the phone to Lloyds at the same time. The first Lloyds advisor 
they got through to ultimately advised Mrs D that their account would remain frozen and that 
they should contact their family member so he could let his bank know they were not 
involved in the potential fraud. In relation to Mr and Mrs Ds need to access cash, the advisor 
said they would either need to visit branch to withdraw cash or choose a trusted family 
member to make a one-off transfer to.
The second advisor Mr D spoke to shortly afterwards managed to resolve things and remove 
the block. Mr and Mrs D found this advisor helpful.
On 9 April Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs D to confirm the block had been removed. The letter 
also stated that:
As part of our fraud prevention measures well ask you to close your accounts with us if your 
details are used in any further fraudulent activity. If that happens, you wont be able to open 
new ones with us.
Mr and Mrs D later complained about the lack of notification of the block and the letter 
theyve received which they felt wrongly insinuated they were guilty of fraud. Mr and Mrs D 
were also unhappy with the service they received from the first advisor. They didnt think it 
was reasonable they were expected to take the action to resolve things given this was 
Lloydss role. They also noted the options this advisor had given them in relation to 
accessing cash didnt suit their needs because it was late in the evening when they realised 
the block had been put in place and Mr D had to leave in the early hours of the morning.
In response to the complaint, Lloyds explained the block itself was unavoidable because it 
had to take action in line with its fraud prevention measures. However, it offered £50 
compensation for the poor service they received from the first advisor in light of the fact the 
second advisor was able to assist. It explained that the options to remove money highlighted 
by the first advisor were the only options available at that time. It also said that the advisor 
had suggested contacting their family member as this might have sped things up. 
Lloyds also awarded £18 to cover the costs of the calls Mr and Mrs D had to make. 
It explained the letter it had sent was generic and didnt uphold this part of their complaint 
but offered to note the feedback they had given about the way this had made them feel.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our Service. 
They highlighted the stress and worry the account block had caused, including worries about 
feeding their family and being able to get to work. As a resolution to their complaint they 
wanted a written apology, as well as more compensation for: the calls; the one to two days 
of time they estimated theyd lost; the insinuation they were guilty of fraud; and the threat of 
account closure.
Our Investigator didnt feel Lloyds needed to do anything further. They said it was 
reasonable for the block to have been placed on the accounts given the concerns around 
fraudulent activity and they felt these had been removed within a reasonable timeframe. 
They said the compensation offered for the calls was fair. They agreed that with hindsight 
Lloyds shouldnt have sent a generic letter but noted it had offered reassurances that it 
would take greater care in future and they felt this was sufficient in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They noted that had the first advisor acted appropriately the 
block would have been removed sooner. Mr and Mrs D still didnt think they had been 
sufficiently compensated for the damage, stress and upset of the poorly worded letter. 
They felt neither Lloyds or our Investigator had accepted Lloyds had done anything wrong in 
relation to this letter, particularly as Lloyds only passed on feedback on this point after 
Mr and Mrs D complained.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different outcome to the 
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Lloyds and Mr and Mrs D so they had 
the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. In brief, I said that there 
was no evidence the first advisor couldnt have removed the block but that the delay was 
minimal, so I wouldnt have directed Lloyds to offer the compensation it had. I didnt think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to have sent the letter and I felt it should provide Mr and Mrs D 
with a written apology.
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings and confirmed it had paid the £68 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs D already. Mr and Mrs D didnt provide any further comments or evidence for me 
to consider.
I am now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision wont address every point or comment made by both parties. Its evident Mr and 
Mrs D feel very strongly about this complaint so Id like to be clear I mean no discourtesy by 
this, and Id like to reassure all parties that I have considered all the comments and evidence 
theyve provided to our service. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Im satisfied the block on Mr and Mrs Ds account, whilst inconvenient for them, was 
necessary in the circumstances whilst the banks involved investigated the suspected 
fraudulent activity. This means that whilst that Mr and Mrs D have explained they were 
stressed and upset by suddenly finding their account blocked and worrying about what they would do for funds, I wouldnt award compensation for this as I dont think this was a result of 
any error on Lloydss part.
I appreciate theyre also unhappy that they werent notified by Lloyds about the block. I have 
heard that Mr D asked the second advisor why he hadnt been notified of the block during 
the call that day. The advisor explained that Lloyds hadnt received the fraud report that long 
before Mr and Mrs D called, so it hadnt yet had time to send Mr and Mrs D the text message 
and letter it would usually send in these circumstances. Mr D then pointed out theyd been 
on the phone for about an hour trying to get through, so its clear he felt this was long 
enough for Lloyds to have notified him. However, Im not persuaded its unreasonable that 
Lloyds needed some time to send out the communications about the account block  I dont 
think a couple of hours is an extensive or unfair delay. In saying this Id note that where there 
is suspected fraud it isnt always appropriate for banks to notify the account holders involved. 
So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here.
Moving to Mr and Mrs Ds concerns about the first advisor. Lloyds hasnt suggested the 
second advisor had information that the first advisor did not. Given the calls overlapped and 
the fact Lloyds upheld this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, it would seem to me that the 
block could have been removed by the first advisor.
Ive then thought about the impact of this. These calls happened around the same time, so I 
dont think there was much of a delay - the evidence suggests around 10 minutes. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs D have told us about their urgent need to access cash and the worry this 
caused, as outlined above, I cannot award for the worry caused by the block itself. And I 
think its of relevance the first advisor wasnt told about their need to urgently access cash. 
Mr and Mrs D had also advised Lloyds they held another bank account with a different bank 
during these calls. So, it doesnt seem to me Lloyds ought to have been aware Mr and Mrs D 
would have issues accessing funds. Mr D was also then able to light heartedly joke with the 
second advisor about how he might have found work the next day difficult if the account 
hadnt been unblocked  Mr D sounded neither upset nor frustrated during this call.
Whilst the evidence indicates Lloyds made a mistake, Im not persuaded the impact warrants 
compensation. I note that Lloyds offered to pay Mr and Mrs D £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by poor service as well as the £18 for call costs. 
This isnt a payment I would have directed it to make in the circumstances. However, Lloyds 
have confirmed this had been paid to Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs Ds final concern is the letter they were sent after the block was removed. And I 
can see why receiving this letter was upsetting for them, given theyd done nothing wrong. 
Lloyds has agreed this was generic correspondence that didnt apply to their circumstances 
but despite this, it didnt uphold this part of their complaint as it said it had followed its 
processes. Whilst this may be the case, I dont think it was reasonable in these 
circumstances to send this letter to Mr and Mrs D. Theyd suffered the inconvenience of a 
block to their account through no fault of their own, so they shouldnt have then been sent a 
letter saying their account might be closed if this happened to them again in the future. So, I 
do think Lloyds did something wrong, and I think part of Mr and Mrs Ds continued upset 
here is that Lloyds has refused to admit this.
So, Ive gone on to consider the impact of this. I can see Mr and Mrs D contacted Lloyds the 
day they received the letter and that they were immediately given assurances their accounts 
wouldnt be closed in the event of further fraud. So, I think the extent of the worry they 
experienced was limited. Ive heard that Lloyds also apologised for the fact the letter didnt 
apply to their circumstances. The complaints team then agreed to pass on their feedback 
about this letter internally. So even though Lloyds didnt admit its mistake as clearly as it 
ought to have, I do think it took steps to put things right. I can see that since our Services involvement Lloyds has offered to send a formal apology letter to Mr and Mrs D about the 
tone of the letter and I think this is something it should do in these circumstances. I consider 
this to be a fair resolution to this issue given the upset caused here centres around Lloydss 
refusal to confirm it has made a mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to write a formal apology letter to 
Mr and Mrs D about the letter it sent following the removal of the block on their accounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman