DRN-3914646
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a mobile telephone device he got using a fixed sum loan 
with Sky UK Limited.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr C took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Sky for a mobile telephone 
device. Around five months later, Mr C says he noticed a problem with the devices display, 
where an uneven black line appeared across the middle of the screen. Mr C contacted the 
manufacturer of the device and arranged to send it to them for inspection.
The manufacturer looked at the device, but told Mr C they couldnt fix it under warranty. They 
said scratches on the exterior of the device, may have caused the damage to the screen. 
Mr C didnt accept that explanation and complained to Sky.
Once Sky had inspected the device, they agreed with the manufacturer and said the damage 
to the screen wasnt a fault. They said Mr C was liable to pay for a repair himself and gave 
him a quote to do so. 
Mr C didnt agree with Skys reply and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr C case and found that Sky hadnt treated Mr C fairly. She wasnt persuaded 
that the evidence showed that the exterior scratches were linked to the issue with the 
screen. 
The investigator concluded that a reasonable person wouldnt find the device to have been 
of satisfactory quality. So, she said Sky should allow Mr C to return it. She asked Sky to 
refund the deposit Mr C paid at the start of the loan agreement and to refund the repayments 
he had made since the issue with the screen came about. The investigator also asked Sky to 
add interest to those refunds and to remove any adverse information related to the loan, 
from the details held with credit reference agencies.
Mr C accepted the investigators findings, but Sky didnt. They said the problems with the 
screen wasnt a fault, but damage probably caused by Mr C. They said the manufacturer 
was correct to say the device couldnt be repaired under warranty and that Mr C had the 
option to pay them for the repair.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and now Mr Cs complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs agreement with Sky
The fixed sum loan agreement Mr C took out with Sky is a regulated financial product. 
Because of this, we are able to consider complaints about it.
Mr C took out a credit agreement in order to finance the purchase of the device. As the 
supplier of the device, Sky was also responsible for the quality of it. There were two separate 
contracts that Mr C entered into with Sky. One was for the supply and use of the device and 
associated services and the other was the fixed sum loan agreement to pay for it. However, 
both contracts were essentially sold as one package. Mr C was required to enter into the 
credit agreement because he chose not to pay for the device upfront. 
I think its relevant for me to consider both contracts together when considering whether Sky 
treated Mr C fairly. I say this because it appears it was a term of the fixed sum loan 
agreement that there was a linked contract for the phone and associated services. So, I 
consider that the two contracts were intrinsically linked. 
I note the credit agreement has terms which seek to prevent Mr C from reducing his liability 
under the agreement by way of deduction, set-off or counterclaim. For instance, this might 
be in situations where Mr C might have a claim about the quality of the goods supplied to 
him under the linked contract for goods and services. Ive thought about what the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 says about contract terms. While it is ultimately for a Court to decide if a 
contract term is unfair, Im required to take the law into account when deciding whats fair 
and reasonable. 
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to prevent Mr C from potentially setting off a 
claim under one contract against the other. This is because to do so would cause a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and I dont think this significant clause was made 
sufficiently clear prior to Mr C when he entered into the credit agreement.
The quality of the mobile telephone device
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts 
that goods supplied need to be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances.
In Mr Cs case, he says the device developed a fault with the screen. If the goods provided 
by the supplier are not of satisfactory quality, then this is a breach of contract. So, Skys 
responsibility to Mr C was to consider his claim and decide if the device was of satisfactory 
quality. If its found it was not of satisfactory quality, it would be for Sky to then offer Mr C an 
appropriate remedy.
Sky provided the device to Mr C in October 2021 and at the time it was brand new. Mr C 
says he found an uneven black line across the centre of the screen five months later. There 
isnt any evidence from Mr C or Sky to say hes had problems with the screen before March 
2022. So, Im persuaded that the issue with the screen happened when Mr C said it did. I 
also think the problem arose not far after Mr C took ownership of the device.
Before Mr C sent the device to the manufacturer, he took several photographs showing each 
side of the mobile telephone and of the screen itself. Mr C only had the device back for a 
short period of time in between sending it to the manufacturer and Sky. So, Im persuaded 
his photographs are a true reflection of the condition of the device in March 2022.
Mr Cs photographs show some scratches to the exterior cover of the device. I can also see 
there is an uneven scratch on the screen, in the same place as the uneven black line 
reported to Sky by Mr C. The photographs dont show any other damage, or highlight other 
problems with the screen. This is consistent with the photographs taken by the manufacturer 
and Sky. In his complaint to us, Mr C intimated that the issue with the screen happened overnight. 
After the manufacturer had looked at the device, they said:
Since upon inspection they found out that damage from your device is mishandling 
of the device. So that, they marked your device as out of warranty.
 When Sky inspected the device, they said:
Following on from the investigation we have concluded that the customer is liable to 
pay for the repair to the device. Upon thorough investigation, there is no evidence to 
suggest this is a manufacturing fault. Due to this, Sky have deemed this repair to be 
chargeable and the liability of the customer.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that the manufacturer or Sky, have shown 
how the external scratches have caused the damage to the screen. I do of course 
understand that the external condition of a mobile telephone, may demonstrate how that 
device has been treated. 
But in Mr Cs case, I dont think the evidence provided by all parties, shows that the external 
damage is significant enough to say it caused further, quite specific damage, to the screen. 
Im also very aware that apart from the uneven scratch across the centre of the display, 
there isnt any other evidence to show damage elsewhere on the screen. If Mr C had 
mistreated the device, as the manufacturer says, it may be that more damage to the screen 
would be evident.
Ive also considered Mr Cs concerns about the problem with the screen, being a common 
issue with the make and model of the mobile telephone Sky provided to him. Although Ive 
thought about that very carefully, Ive placed more weight on what all parties have told us 
about this specific device and the evidence gathered after the various inspections.
On balance, Im persuaded by Mr Cs argument that the problem he found with the screen, is 
more likely because of a fault with the device. The mobile telephone was brand new and 
from the higher end of the market. And Mr C had possession of the device for a relatively 
short period of time. So, I think the device showed the fault, sooner than can be expected, 
considering the relevant circumstances involved.
In all the circumstances, I dont think a reasonable person would have found the device to be 
of satisfactory quality. So, I think Sky have breached the contract they have with Mr C. 
Taking into consideration Skys obligations under the CRA, I think this means Mr C is due a 
remedy from Sky. 
Summary
Because I think theres been a breach of contract in Mr Cs case, the CRA says he is entitled 
to a repair or a replacement of the device from Sky. I can see that Sky inspected the device 
in March 2022 and although a repair was offered, Sky expected Mr C to pay for it himself. If 
a repair isnt offered in a reasonable timeframe, or hasnt worked, the CRA says a customer 
is due a final right to reject the goods.
Having considered what happened, I think Sky have had a chance to repair the device and 
to have offered Mr C a replacement. Sky havent offered either to Mr C. So, I think its fair for 
Sky to now allow Mr C to reject the goods. This means I think Sky should arrange for Mr C to 
exit the fixed sum loan agreement and to return the device at no extra cost to him. Mr C has 
told us that Sky already have the device, which means part of this settlement may have 
already been done.Ive also looked at the repayments Mr C has made under the agreement. Ive concluded that 
Mr C was able to use the device for five months before he noticed the issue with the screen. 
Although Ive concluded Sky should allow Mr C to reject the goods, I think its fair that he 
pays for the usage he had from October 2021 to 7 March 2022. 
This means Sky should refund any repayments to Mr C that he made under the fixed sum 
loan agreement, from 8 March 2022 to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Im not aware that any payments towards the agreement were missed by Mr C. But, I agree 
with the investigator here, in that I dont think it would be fair for Mr C to suffer inconvenience 
due to missed payment information relating to a device that had a fault. So, I think Sky 
should remove any adverse information about the agreement, that may be held with credit 
reference agencies.
Given that Mr C should be allowed to reject the device, I also think its fair for Mr C to receive 
a refund from Sky of the upfront fee of £12 he paid, when he entered the agreement.
Mr C has been without the use of the funds from the upfront payment and the repayments 
under the agreement he made from March 2022 onwards. So, I think its fair that Sky adds 
interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to the refund of the upfront payment of £12 and each 
refunded repayment. I think Sky should calculate the interest to be added from the date the 
payments were made, to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Finally, Mr C has told us that he used the SIM card from Sky, in another device he has 
access to. So, I think he has been able to make use of the airtime contract he had with Sky 
throughout that time.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Sky UK Limited should:
1. Allow Mr C to exit the fixed sum loan agreement and allow him to return the device at 
no additional cost to him;
2. Remove any adverse information about Mr Cs fixed sum loan, from the details held 
with credit reference agencies;
3. Refund all the repayments to Mr C that he has made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement, from 8 March 2022 to the date of settlement of this complaint;
4. Refund the payment of £12 that Mr C made when the fixed sum loan agreement was 
started; and
5. Add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to parts three and four of this settlement, 
from the dates they were paid, to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Sky must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr C accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Sky deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr C, they should provide Mr C with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Sky UK Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman