DRN-2085822
The complaint
Mr C complains about an international money transfer he made with Tor Currency Exchange 
Limited.
What happened
Mr C asked Tor to make an international money transfer for him. The transfer didnt happen 
as Mr C expected resulting in him suffering a financial loss due to the funds being 
reconverted when they reached his account abroad.
Tor investigated and said the problem was due to an error Mr C made with the beneficiary 
account details he had provided. Tor said they actioned the transfer in the way Mr C had 
asked them to. Mr C remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Whilst he agreed Mr C had suffered a 
financial loss, he didnt think Tor was responsible for this. Mr C disagreed saying that whilst 
he accepted part of the responsibility, he thought Tor hadnt acted reasonably. Because of 
this the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at how the problem happened Ive considered how Mr Cs account at Tor is 
set up, and what happened when he asked for the transfer to be made. 
Mr Cs account with Tor has two beneficiaries. One is him as an individual showing his 
personal name, the other is a corporate account showing a different name. Both accounts 
are marked as Euro accounts, and both are held in the same European country. This 
information was input into Tors system by Mr C. 
When Mr C spoke with Tor he said he wanted to convert GBP into Euros and there was a 
conversation about a house purchase. Tor gave Mr C the exchange rate and asked for his 
Euro bank details. Mr C told Tor to transfer the funds to the same beneficiary account as last 
time. 
Towards the end of the call Tor confirmed the details of the transfer with Mr C and said the 
transfer would be made to his private account. To which Mr C agreed. Before making any 
transaction like this I would expect a business to confirm the details; and this is what Tor did. 
As Ive explained above Mr C had two beneficiaries linked to his account. So when looking at 
their system Tor had two beneficiaries to choose from; a corporate account not in Mr Cs 
name, or Mr Cs personal individual account labelled with his name. Mr C confirmed that he 
wanted the money transferred to his personal account. And this is the action Tor took.
Mr C says that Tor didnt follow his advice from earlier in the call when he asked for the 
transfer to be made to the same beneficiary he had transferred money to previously; this 
was the corporate account. 
In my opinion the most important part of the conversation is where Tor confirms that the 
beneficiary is to be Mr Cs private account; to which Mr C agrees. There were only two 
beneficiaries to choose from. By confirming the private account as the beneficiary Tor was 
also, in my mind, making it clear that the funds werent going to the corporate account. This 
gave Mr C the opportunity to let Tor know if something wasnt right.
It turns out that Mr Cs personal beneficiary account was actually held in GBP and not Euros. 
This meant that when Tor sent the transfer in Euros, as Mr C had agreed, his beneficiary 
bank reconverted the funds back into GBP. This meant that Mr C suffered a financial loss. 
Tor werent to know this as Mr C had set the account up with them as Euros.
Ive no doubt Mr C suffered a financial loss. However Im satisfied this was not because of 
any actions taken by Tor who asked Mr C to confirm the details of the transfer before it was 
made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman