DRN-3165213
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Miss A ordered a new kitchen to be supplied and fitted and paid using her Tesco credit card. 
The purchase price was £8600.46. Miss A paid £2000 on her Tesco card.
Miss A was unhappy with the quality and fitting of the kitchen. She complained to the 
supplier but was unbale to resolve matters, and it subsequently ceased trading.
Miss A raised a claim under section 75 with Tesco. In support of her claim, she provided an 
independent inspection report which stated that the kitchen hadnt been fitted to a 
reasonable standard. The author of the independent report also provided a quote for 
remedial works which totalled £9,200.
Tesco advised Miss A that it wanted to speak to the author of the report before it made any 
payment. 
Miss A wasnt happy with Tescos response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think Tesco had acted fairly by 
placing the section 75 claim on hold until it had made contact with the author of the 
inspection report. The investigator said it wasnt reasonable for this issue alone to stop the 
claim from being accepted. The investigator said that Tesco should pay its percentage 
proportion of the costs of remedial works and pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim.
Tesco didnt agree. It said it had been unable to verify with the author of the inspection report 
that the quote was a true reflection of the work needed. Tesco expressed concern that the 
author of the report was uncontactable. It also disagreed that further compensation should 
be paid because it said it had handled the claim fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Miss As complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract and that Tescos response to the claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. It also says that services must be supplied with reasonable care and skill. If 
this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at the available evidence including the inspection report and the quotation for 
remedial works. Ive also reviewed the photos provided by Miss A.
In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, Id need to be satisfied that the kitchen 
is faulty or that the installation hadnt been carried out with reasonable care and skill.
The independent report states that the kitchen is poorly fitted. It lists several defects in the 
installation relating to the worktops and the cabinets. It states that most of the kitchen will 
need to be removed and replaced, and that walls will need replastering due to the poor fitting 
of the worktops and upstands.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the evidence supports a finding that theres been 
a breach of contract, because the kitchen hasnt been installed with reasonable care and 
skill. This means Tesco is responsible under section 75.
Tesco has said that it wants to speak to the author of the inspection report to verify the quote 
and the schedule of works. It says that once it has done this, it will pay the section 75 claim. 
Tesco has said that so far, it has tried to contact the author of the report by phone and email 
without success. It has said that the telephone number provided is unobtainable, which it 
finds concerning.
Ive looked at the report and the quote and I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
documents arent authentic. I searched for the business of the author of the report on social 
media and found a page for the business with very recent reviews and full contact details. 
Im satisfied of the existence of the author of the report. Im also of the view that Tesco 
couldve obtained contact detail in this way and couldve made further efforts to contact the 
author of the report. My understanding is that Tesco hasnt made any attempts to contact the 
author of the report since February 2021, which I think is unreasonable given that Tesco 
placed the section 75 claim on hold for this very reason.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that theres been a breach of contract. For the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Tesco has acted reasonable in placing the claim 
on hold.
Putting things right
Miss A has described the impact of living with a poorly fitted kitchen. Shes said that there 
are hazards which have caused her to worry about the safety of her young child. Shes 
explained that she cant afford to have the remedial works caried out until Tesco settles the 
section 75 claim. Im of the view that settlement of the claim has been prolonged 
unreasonably, so I think its fair to ask Tesco to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC must:
Pay Miss A the percentage proportion of repair costs as per the quote
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum from the date of the section 75 claim to the date of 
settlement
Pay compensation of £275 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman