DRN-3956238
The complaint
Ms D, Mr D and Mr D1 (the complainants) complain that Kapwealth didnt provide them with 
the information it should have done about the Forex strategy each of their portfolios was 
invested in.
What happened
Kapwealth was in partnership with Marjan Technologies which had developed an investment 
strategy based on an algorithm  The FX Market algorithm  for trading forex assets. 
Kapwealth was the investment manager for the strategy and offered clients who wanted to 
invest in the strategy a discretionary management service for their investment. 
Mr D was aware of the strategy before he discussed investing in it with Kaplwealth This was 
the result of him looking to purchase an equity interest in the business itself and attending 
investor seminars. Mr D invested an initial €50,000 into his portfolio to be invested in the 
strategy to be managed by Kapwealth and then a total further amount of €400,000. He also 
discussed the strategy with his children, Mr D1 and Ms D following which they invested 
€200,000 and €50,000 respectively into their own portfolios for Kapwealth to manage.
They each subsequently complained to Kapwealth because they were unhappy that 
performance fees had been charged on closed profit and loss and with the equity in the 
account being hidden so that losses werent shown. Mr D also complained that the 
statements they were provided with didnt show the floating loss which encouraged him to 
invest more into the strategy.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
thought the investment strategy wasnt appropriate for the complainants as it was for 
professional clients and the criteria for them being treated as elective professional clients 
hadnt been met.
The investigator also said that as a discretionary manager of the complainants portfolios it 
had a duty to make sure the decisions it made were suitable for them but Kapwealth had not 
considered suitability for any of the complainants. The investigator didnt think that leveraged 
trading on currencies was suitable for them.
The investigator also said the complainants had not been provided with the information they 
should have been at the outset about performance fees only being charged on closed 
positions and that this was payable when there were floating losses. He said there was a 
clear conflict of interest in Kapwealth managing the strategy in the best interest of the client 
at the same time it received a performance fee on closed positions.
Kapwealth didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the investigator had held it 
accountable for suitability when it hadnt recommended the product and that its role was 
limited to ensuring that the product was appropriate only. It said the client was looking for 
speculation and understood the risks and had approached it to invest in the strategy and if 
they didnt want speculation or didnt understand the risks they had been fraudulent in stating 
to the contrary.
It said that whilst the clients didnt have trading experience they werent directly executing. 
The clients were party to the underlying software company which provided the trade signals 
and wanted to buy into the company so would need to understand how it generated revenue. 
There is evidence from the company that the client attended seminars and was in 
possession of the trade trading data and knew how the fees were levied but this hasnt been 
taken into account.
The investigator responded and said that his opinion had been based in part on the 
investment being deemed appropriate for professional client and the complainants not being 
such clients. He referred to the rules set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
in the Handbook of the FCA at COBS 10.2.
Kapwealth repeated that whilst the clients didnt have trading experience they were 
executing the trades themselves so this wasnt so relevant if they understood the products 
and their nature, which they had said they did. It said the client had been engaging with the 
underlying software provider for several months so had sufficient knowledge. It also said that 
having attended seminars with the client it was satisfied that he knew the minute details of it. 
It also questioned how Mr D could have promoted the strategy to his family if he didnt know 
how it worked. 
As Kapwealth didnt agree with the investigator the matter was referred to me to review. I 
issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint the findings from which are set out 
below.
There appears to be some confusion as to what Kapwealth was required to do in its role as 
discretionary manager of the complainants portfolios. The investigator in his initial opinion 
referred to its obligation to assess appropriateness as well as suitability. Kapwealth has 
argued that it was only required to assess appropriateness.
Given there are important differences in the rules that Kapwealth must comply with between 
appropriateness and suitability I think it is important to explain what its obligations were.
The relevant rules are set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the 
Handbook of the FCA. The rules relating to appropriateness can be seen under  COBS 
10A.1 which make clear that the chapter doesnt apply when a firm makes a personal 
recommendation or carries out portfolio management. So, it didnt apply to the service that 
Kapwealth provided to the complainants. 
The rules regarding suitability at the time are set out under COBS 9A the relevant parts from 
which I set out below.
COBS 9A.2.1R:
When providing investment advice or portfolio management a firm must:
(1) obtain the necessary information regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation including his ability to bear losses;; and
(c) investment objectives including his risk tolerance,
(2) only recommend investment services, financial instruments and insurance-based investment products, as applicable, or take decisions to trade, which are suitable for 
the client and, in particular, in accordance with the clients risk tolerance and ability to bear 
losses.
[Note: first paragraph of article 25(2) of MiFID, first paragraph of article 30(1) of the IDD]
COBS 9A.2.4EU:
54(2) Investment firms shall determine the extent of the information to be collected from 
clients in light of all the features of the investment advice or portfolio management services 
to be provided to those clients. Investment firms shall obtain from clients or potential clients 
such information as is necessary for the firm to understand the essential facts about the 
client and to have a reasonable basis for determining, giving due consideration to the nature 
and extent of the service provided, that the specific transaction to be recommended, or 
entered into in the course of providing a portfolio management service, satisfies the following 
criteria:
(a) it meets the investment objectives of the client in question, including clients risk 
tolerance;
(b) it is such that the client is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives;
(c) it is such that the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
[Note: article 54(2) of the MiFID Org Regulation]
COBS 9A.2.6:
55(1) Investment firms shall ensure that the information regarding a clients or potential 
clients knowledge and experience in the investment field includes the following, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the service to be provided 
and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks 
involved:
(a) the types of service, transaction and financial instrument with which the client is familiar;
(b) the nature, volume, and frequency of the clients transactions in financial instruments and 
the period over which they have been carried out;
(c) the level of education, and profession or relevant former profession of the client or 
potential client.
[Note: article 55(1) of the MiFID Org Regulation]
The above rules state they apply to portfolio management, so they applied to the service 
Kapwealth provided. Furthermore, clause 7 of its own terms and conditions set out its 
obligation to assess suitability before providing its portfolio management service  unless an 
IFA has assessed suitability, which isnt the case here.
However, when the investigator questioned Kapwealth about suitability before he provided 
his opinion it said that as it had made no recommendation and didnt carry out an investment 
review, it only needed to consider appropriateness  which as I have said isnt relevant to 
the service it provided. It then repeated this in response to the investigators opinion. So, on its own evidence Kapwealth didnt consider suitability, despite the rules and its own 
terms making clear this is something it needed to do. Given what Kapwealth has said and 
the absence of any documentary evidence any suitability assessment was carried out I am 
satisfied that no such assessment took place. 
Kapwealth was in breach of its regulatory obligations and its own terms and conditions in 
providing its portfolio management service to the complainants without having carried out a 
suitability assessment.
The complainants were required to provide some information about their financial positions 
and investment experience in the applications they completed but this wasnt for the 
purposes of a suitability assessment and wasnt sufficient in any event for such an 
assessment to be carried out, as I explain below. 
I have only considered the applications Mr D and Mr D1 completed as Ms Ds application is 
illegible. In their respective applications both Mr D and Mr D1 answered yes to having a 
good understanding of leveraged products and the concepts of margin and to having a good 
understanding of the concepts of volatility and market liquidity and of the risks of trading. 
However, the applications also required them to provide information about their level of 
previous experience in relation to a comprehensive list of investment products - from 
government bonds to CFDs and Forex, and with a catch-all of other investments for 
anything falling outside of the individual products identified. 
Both Mr D and Mr D1 answered none to every single product and to the catch-all question. 
In other words their answers indicated they had no previous investment experience at all.
The applications also showed that; Mr D was a teacher and Mr D1 was a student; neither of 
them had a qualification that would assist in understanding leveraged products in general; 
their current level of knowledge of financial markets was none/limited/basic experience. 
Furthermore, the rules also require firms to obtain information about a clients financial 
situation when assessing suitability - including their ability to bear losses - as well as 
information about their objectives and risk tolerance. 
The application did require some financial information to be provided but I think this fell well 
short of what Kapwealth needed for the purposes of a suitability assessment. 
For example the information about Mr D1 showed that at the time he was a 24 year old 
student with an income between 0  10,000 and with a net worth between 100,001  
500,000. He put €200,000 into his portfolio to be invested in the strategy and Kapwealth had 
no way of knowing from the information in the application whether this was all of net worth or 
not or if he could bear the losses that could result from investing this amount in the strategy. 
Mr D had a more significant income  shown as between 75,000 and 100,000  but had the 
same information as Mr D1 about his net worth, namely that this was 100,001  500,000. He 
invested a total of €450,000 and as with Mr D1 Kapwealth had no way of knowing from the 
information it had if that was the entirety of his net worth or whether he could bear the losses 
that could arise from his investment in the strategy.
I think it is obvious that the applications of Mr D and Mr D1 didnt contain the necessary 
information that Kapwealth would have needed to assess suitability and that it needed to 
obtain further details before it could carry out an assessment.
So far as Ms D is concerned, the copy of the application she completed that has been provided isnt legible so I cannot say what information was provided in her application.
I have considered whether the strategy could have been suitable for any of the complainants 
if the necessary information had been obtained and a suitability assessment carried out. Mr 
D has confirmed that none of them had any previous investment experience and as such I 
am not satisfied that the strategy was suitable for any of them. 
Kapwealth has suggested that because Mr D was already aware of the strategy - having 
attended investor seminars and intending to have an equity interest in Marjan - he had the 
necessary knowledge and experience. I am not persuaded by this argument.
Investor seminars are not a replacement for actual knowledge and experience gained 
through investing in my view and whilst Mr D may have thought purchasing an equity interest 
in Marjan was a good opportunity this also doesnt, of itself, establish he had the knowledge 
and experience to understand the risks of the strategy.
I would also point out that even if Kapwealth thought that this was a reason to think that Mr D 
had the necessary knowledge and experience, it provides no explanation for it providing its 
service to Mr D1 or Ms D. 
One further point about the suitability of the strategy is that the seminar slides Kapwealth 
has provided refer to the strategy being suitable only for professional clients, which I think is 
understandable given the complexity of the strategy. However, the complainants were all 
retail clients. In response to the investigators query about this Kapwealth said that it 
changed the client criteria for the strategy because of concerns over negative equity 
protection. 
Whilst I acknowledge that professional clients wouldnt be entitled to negative equity 
protection, this doesnt explain how it determined that a strategy it thought was only suitable 
for professional clients was then somehow suitable for retail clients.
Were the complainants provided with the information they should have been?
The complainants argue they werent made aware of floating losses on their accounts and 
that this gave a false impression as to how the strategy was doing. They also argue that they 
werent made aware that the performance fee was charged on closed trades whilst there 
were losing trades still open.
The terms and conditions of the portfolio management agreement referred to payment of an 
initial management fee of 1% of the total portfolio amount upon account opening and a 
monthly performance fee of 50%. The terms provide no further information about the 
performance fee, such as whether it is payable on closed positions only.
Kapwealth argues that Mr D was aware of the basis on which the performance fee was 
charged and point to a slide from one of the investor seminars that Mr D attended which 
referred to this. 
It has also provided a statement from Mr L, a director and the controlling owner of Marjan, 
who has stated that Mr D had numerous meetings with Marjan in which it shared its full 
business model and that this included live trading and that Mr D was aware that positions 
were open at the end of each month and that performance fees were generated on closed 
positions only.
There is no evidence that Mr D1 or Ms D attended the seminars or met with Marjan, so this 
evidence is only relevant so far as Mr D is concerned and has no relevance to Mr D1 or Ms D. Kapwealth has provided no evidence or explanation as to why Mr D1 or Ms D would have 
reason to know the basis on which the performance fee was charged given it didnt provide 
any information to them about this. 
Insofar as Mr D is concerned I am not persuaded on the limited evidence that Kapwealth has 
provided - consisting only of a seminar slide and a statement from Mr  L - that he was aware 
the performance fee would be charged on closed positions only whilst there were still losing 
open positions.
There are various rules that I think are relevant regarding the information that Kapwealth 
provided to the complainants. However, the starting point I think is that it was obliged to 
provide clear, fair, and not misleading information to its clients as set out in COBS 4.2.1R.
I am not satisfied that Kapwealth did provide clear, fair and not misleading information to the 
complainants as it didnt make clear the performance fee would only be charged on closed 
positions and that this was payable when floating losses could be increasing month on 
month. 
I think it is also worth referring to specific rules regarding costs information that Kapwealth 
needed to comply with. Under COBS 2.2A.2(1)(d) Kapwealth had to provide appropriate 
information in good time to its clients about all costs and charges. It seems to me that 
appropriate information would include information about the basis on which the performance 
fee would be charged, namely on closed positions only.
There are more specific rules about costs information under COBS 6.1ZA which I wont set 
out in detail. However, one rule I think is worth referring to is COBS 6.1ZA.14ER under 
which it was required to provide an illustration showing the cumulative effect of costs on the 
return both on an ex-ante and post-ante basis. Kapwealth provided no such illustration as far 
as I am aware and had it done so this potentially would have painted a different picture to 
what was shown in the documents they were provided with. 
There is a further point about the information Kapwealth provided. Regardless of the 
information provided about the performance fee, the monthly statements didnt show the 
floating losses and I think as such were not clear, fair, and not misleading. I think this is 
important for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, Mr D invested €50,000 to start with and then later invested a further €400,000 that he 
may well not have invested if he had been aware of the floating losses on his account. 
Secondly, Mr D1 and Ms D invested as a result of Mr D making them aware of the strategy 
following his own investment and it seems to me this discussion and their investment may 
well not have taken place if he had been made aware of the floating losses.
I said Kapwealth should compare what each complaint got back from their investment in the 
strategy with what they would have received if they hadnt invested and pay the difference 
together with simple interest.  
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
further information they wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision. The 
complainants agreed with my findings but Kapwealth didnt. 
It said that we had not fairly assessed and acknowledged the scale of evidence supporting 
its assertions and the lack of assertions to the contrary. It said that our approach and attitude 
is inherently slanted in favour of the complainant and it feels its evidence of the 
complainants own extensive active contribution is being discounted Kapwealth said that it had provided a list of consistent activities which show the 
complainants active intention, desire, and participation and that they were the drivers of the 
whole investment. It said experience is way broader than just an opinion  and then 
provided dictionary definitions for the word experience. 
Kapwealth said that by defining experience narrowly and ignoring the evidence of the 
complainants real and tangible exposure to the concepts and operation of the strategy 
creates a catch-22 situation in that someone who has never previously invested in a product 
would never be able to ever invest in that product. It said that there had to be some 
threshold of experience that should be enough to make a decision they can invest and the 
complainant clearly exceeded that threshold. 
In response to my finding that it had provided no explanation for the service provided to Mr 
D1 and Ms D Kapwealth said Mr D was promoting the service to them.
It said that in effect it had an insistent client that it tried in good faith to implement a service 
for which he was fully aware of and promoted and it has provided extensive proof of the pre-
activities and pre-knowledge and intent of the complainant  who has never stated he didnt 
understand the product nor that he didnt have enough knowledge and experience.
Kapwealth said that the client was actively looking into investment solutions and the 
assumption he wouldnt have invested in something else is unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kapwealth has suggested that my provisional is biased towards the complainants and that I 
have not fairly assessed the scale of evidence in support of the assertions it has made. 
However, I have considered all the evidence provided by the parties and reached a fair, 
reasonable, and impartial decision having done so. Kapwealth has provided no new 
information or evidence that would lead me to change the findings in my provisional 
decision, which form part of my findings in this final decision. 
The starting point is that Kapwealth didnt carry out a suitability assessment as it was 
required to do both by the rules and under its own terms and conditions  it mistakenly 
considered that because Mr D had decided to invest in the strategy beforehand and it didnt 
recommend it that this meant it wasnt required to assess suitability.
However, as it was providing a portfolio management service it was required to assess 
suitability of the service it was going to provide and shouldnt have proceeded to without 
having carried out such an assessment in respect of each complainant  its own terms and 
conditions explain that it will carry out such an assessment. 
In considering whether Kapwealth could have provided its service if it had carried out a 
suitability assessment, the information available doesnt support a finding that it could - as on 
the available evidence the leveraged currency trading the Forex strategy involved wasnt 
suitable for any of the complainants.
In my provisional decision I commented on the fact that the Forex strategy was originally 
directed only at professional clients - which I think made sense given the complexity and 
risks involved in the strategy. This was then changed so that it was made available to retail 
clients. The reason that Kapwealth put forward for this is that professional clients wouldnt benefit 
from negative equity protection. However, the fact retail clients had the benefit of negative 
equity protection didnt make the strategy any less complex or less high risk. It simply meant 
that a retail client couldnt lose more than the total funds in their trading account. I am not 
satisfied that the availability of negative equity protection reasonably explains the decision to 
make the Forex strategy available to retail clients. 
And even if it was considered a suitable strategy for some retail clients - such as 
sophisticated investors - I cannot see that a strategy which had previously only been 
considered as suitable for professional clients, could reasonably be considered suitable for 
retail clients who were novice investors.
In response to my provisional decision Kapwealth has made the same arguments it has 
previously made about Mr D wanting to invest in the strategy, attending seminars, and being 
interested in taking an equity interest in Marjan. I considered everything it said previously in 
relation to these issues when making the findings set out in my provisional decision. It has 
provided no new evidence that would lead me to change my findings. 
I note what Kapwealth has said about there being some threshold of experience that would 
allow a client to be invested in a product they hadnt previously invested in. In this case Mr D 
had not previously invested and was investing in a complex high-risk strategy involving 
leveraged currency trading, not some straightforward investment product like equities or 
bonds. I dont agree with Kapwealth that Mr D had the necessary knowledge and experience 
to understand the risks of such trading when he had no previous investment experience at 
all.
Furthermore, whilst I have concentrated on Mr Ds knowledge and experience, the rules also 
require firms to obtain information about a clients financial situation when assessing 
suitability - including their ability to bear losses - as well as information about their objectives 
and risk tolerance. I am not satisfied that leveraged currency trading was suitable for Mr D 
regardless of his knowledge and experience, based on the information available about his 
financial situation. 
I note that Kapwealth has referred to Mr D being an insistent client. This has a specific 
meaning as set out in COBS 9.5A in the FCA Handbook. In short it is someone a firm has 
made a personal recommendation to but where the client wants the firm to facilitate a 
different transaction. That clearly isnt what happened in this case and if it had been the 
guidance sets out in COBS 9.5A sets out what a firm should do.
Insofar as Kapwealth is using the term insistent client in some wider context in reference to 
Mr Ds desire to invest in the Forex strategy, this didnt make it suitable for him and didnt 
mean that Kapwealth could provide the service it did when it wasnt suitable for him.  
The points that Kapwealth has made about Mr Ds knowledge and experience have no 
relevance to Mr D1 or Ms D. Its explanation in support of its service being suitable for them 
appears to be based on Mr D having promoted the Forex strategy to them. This clearly 
doesnt provide evidence that leveraged currency trading was suitable for them. I have seen 
no evidence either of them had the knowledge and experience for leveraged currency 
trading to be considered suitable for them. 
I would also repeat what I have said above about the rules requiring firms to obtain 
information about a clients financial situation when assessing suitability - including their 
ability to bear losses - as well as information about their objectives and risk tolerance. And, 
as with Mr D,  I am not satisfied that leveraged currency trading was suitable for Mr D1 or Ms 
D based on the information available about their respective financial situations. In summary Kapwealth failed to carry out a suitability assessment for any of the 
complainants as it was required to do before providing its portfolio management service. I 
have seen no persuasive evidence that if it had carried out a suitability assessment that it 
could reasonably have concluded that leveraged currency trading was suitable for any of the 
complainants. 
Furthermore, in addition to my findings about suitability I also made findings in my 
provisional decision about Kapwealth not providing the information it should have done to 
the complainants. Kapwealth has said nothing about my findings about its failings in that 
regard. These provide an additional and separate basis for upholding the complaint and 
awarding redress in any event.
Putting things right
The purpose of redress as far as possible is to put the complainant in the position they would 
have been in if the business had done nothing wrong. In other words, put them in the 
position they would have been in if their portfolios hadnt been invested in the Forex strategy. 
Where there is persuasive evidence that a complainant would still have invested at the time 
either in a specific investment or generally then redress can be based on a comparison with 
the specific investment or with a benchmark.
I note that Kapwealth has said that Mr D was looking for opportunities to invest. However, 
there is no persuasive evidence he was interested in any other investment other than the 
Forex strategy. There is also no evidence that suggests Mr D1 and Ms D would have 
invested in something else if they hadnt been invested in the Forex strategy. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied that it is fair and reasonable redress should be based on 
Kapwealth comparing what each complainant got back after investment in the strategy with 
what they would have received if they had not invested and left their money where it was 
and paying the difference to each of them. 
In addition I think it should pay simple interest at 8% per annum on the amount it calculates 
is payable to each complainant from the date they each stopped investing in the strategy to 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. Kapwealth Limited must 
calculate and pay the complainants the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D, Mr D and Mr 
D1 to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman