DRN-3598317
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Close Brothers Limited sent incorrect information about the status of 
an account she held with it, to a credit reference agency, negatively impacting her credit 
information. 
What happened
Miss F took out car insurance, through an insurance broker. And she decided to pay for the 
insurance premium via monthly direct debit. To do this, a credit agreement was set up with 
Close Brothers  who paid the insurance premium upfront, and then collected the payments 
from Miss F on a monthly basis.
The credit agreement started in August 2020. And payment was taken as expected, until the 
January 2021 payment was due. Close Brothers has said it was unable to take this payment, 
as the direct debit instruction had failed. Meaning it was likely either Miss F, or her bank, had 
cancelled the direct debit instruction.
Shortly after this, Close Brothers received notification that Miss F wanted to close her 
account with it. So, it calculated the remaining money owed to it under the credit agreement 
 and the majority of this was paid. There was £18.65 outstanding. Miss F then contacted 
Close Brothers and paid this. So, the account was fully settled, and should have been 
closed.
However, in October 2021 Miss F contacted Close Brothers and said some negative 
information was showing on her credit file, from Close Brothers. She said this showed shed 
missed payment to it, and the account had been defaulted. Miss F highlighted this wasnt 
correct, as shed settlement the account in full.
Close Brothers investigated this and agreed this was the case. So, any negative information 
reported about Miss Fs account was incorrect. It explained to Miss F that it had contacted 
the relevant credit reference agency, to ensure this wrong information was put right. 
However, Miss F needed to return to Close Brothers, as negative information about the 
account was still being reported. This happened on a number of occasions, and Miss F 
complained about the situation.
Close Brothers looked into the complaint and upheld it. It said the issue had been due to 
system errors  which meant the wrong information kept being reported. It initially offered 
Miss F £100 compensation, which increased to £450. Miss F remained dissatisfied, and 
referred her complaint to this service, for an independent review.
After this, negative information was reported on Miss Fs account again  and Close 
Brothers offered Miss F an additional £300. So, the total compensation offered now is £750. 
Close Brothers has said it made a fix to their system  and this now seems to have stopped 
the issue. It ran a search to check whether any negative information was showing for Miss F 
 and said it didnt get any negative information back from it. So, it was pleased the situation 
was resolved.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought £750 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss F clearly experienced. They didnt 
feel it was necessary to award more than this, and commented that whilst Miss F raised 
concerns about not being accepted for a bank loan, and not being able to apply for a 
mortgage due to the above issues, there wasnt any firm evidence or impact in respect of 
this. 
Miss F didnt agree. She said negative information was showing on her credit file still. Our 
investigator said the evidence didnt show that was the case. 
As Miss F didnt agree, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the compensation of £750 in total offered by Close Brothers is 
fair and reasonable. So, Ill be requiring it to pay the remainder of this, that it hasnt already 
paid to Miss F. Ive explained why below.
Close Brothers has accepted responsibility for negative information being sent to a credit 
reference agency, and this continuing to reappear on Miss Fs file. Its said an initial mistake 
was made when its agent took Miss Fs final payment of £18.65. The advisor mistakenly 
reinstated the credit agreement, and it then reported missed payments in relation to what 
should have been a settled agreement. Close Brothers has also accepted that when it tried 
to fix the problem this wasnt successful. Its said system errors meant the wrong information 
continued to be reported. 
As Close Brothers has accepted it did something wrong  I havent needed to make a 
decision on this point. Rather, Ive needed to decide whether Close Brothers offer to put 
things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im satisfied it is. 
Its clear the situation has been frustrating and worrying for Miss F. The negative information 
should never have appeared  and Miss F had to raise the issue with Close Brothers on 
several occasions, to ensure incorrect negative information was removed. This would have 
been inconvenient for her. But I think the £750 offered  which included £75 for costs Miss F 
incurred for checking Experian is fair and reasonable. I say this because I think this figure 
fairly recognises this trouble, upset and inconvenience caused. 
Miss F has said in addition to the distress and inconvenience of the information appearing on 
her credit file, a bank loan she applied for was rejected due to the negative information. Miss 
F has provided a copy of an online chat she had with the relevant bank. So, Ive considered 
this. I can see the bank says it considers credit reference information, as well as other 
information provided to it, when deciding whether to lend. The bank didnt note that 
information reported by Close Brothers was a factor, or sole reason, it declined the loan. So, 
I dont hold Close Brothers accountable for this. Or think it should increase compensation 
because of this point.
I also understand Miss F said she didnt pursue obtaining a mortgage at the time, because of 
conversations with her broker about negative information from Close Brothers. Miss F didnt 
apply for a mortgage, a mortgage application wasnt rejected, so there wasnt a further 
impact on her credit file. So, I dont think this changes the outcome of the complaint. Im 
satisfied the distress and inconvenience of the overall situation, which includes this instance, 
has been fairly compensated for in the £750 offered. Miss F told this service, in May 2022, that the default still hadnt been removed from her 
account. Ive looked at what Miss F has sent us, as well as Close Brothers response to this. 
And I cant see that negative information is still reporting. The screenshots of Miss Fs credit 
files dont show this. And Close Brothers has also provided screenshots, showing the last 
amendment to the file, which removed the negative information. This evidence suggests the 
problem has since been remedied. So, I dont think Close Brothers needs to do anything 
more here. 
My final decision
Given the above my final decision is that the total compensation of £750 now offered is fair. I 
understand Close Brothers Limited has paid Miss F £450 of this so far. It should now pay her 
the further £300, if it hasnt already done so. 
I dont award anything further than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman