DRN-3709473
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax applied interest to his 
credit card. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr R repaid the outstanding balance on his credit card. A few days later a 
payment was taken the led to an outstanding balance. Halifax sent Mr R a statement two 
days later that said there was an outstanding balance and that a direct debit of £5 would be 
collected. 
In June 2022 Halifax sent Mr R his credit card statement that showed £18.23 of interest had 
been applied. Halifax later took a direct debit payment of £5. Mr R went on to raise a 
complaint and Halifax sent him a final response. Halifax said purchase interest had been 
correctly applied. But it agreed to refund the interest Mr R incurred as a gesture of goodwill. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs complaint. They thought Halifax had dealt 
with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr R asked to appeal and said he thought 
Halifax had failed to follow regulations about unfair treatment. Mr R also said he thought the 
way interest had been charged was unfair. As Mr R asked to appeal his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has set out the relevant section of Halifaxs terms and conditions already so 
I wont repeat it here. Ive looked at Halifaxs terms and can see that say it will charge 
interest when a balance isnt cleared in full each month. In this case, Mr R cleared the 
balance in full, but a transaction debited the account a couple of days before the next 
statement was issued. Thats the point used to decide whether the balance has been cleared 
in full. I understand the timing was close, but Im satisfied there was an outstanding balance. 
In response to the investigator Mr R asked about the level of outstanding balance required to 
trigger purchase interest. As set out in the terms, the balance has to be repaid in full to 
ensure no purchase interest becomes due. So any remaining balance will trigger interest.
Halifaxs May 2022 statement gave the outstanding balance and confirmed it would collect 
£5 from Mr R by direct debit. Halifax went on to collect the payment in line with the statement 
it sent. I havent seen any evidence of a mistake by Halifax. 
Mr Rs told us he thinks Halifax has treated him unfairly in the way it applied the terms of his 
credit card. But the terms are set out and explain the basis on which interest becomes due. 
Halifax gave Mr R advance notice of the amount he owed and how much it would take by 
direct debit. When the full balance wasnt repaid, interest was applied in line with the terms. I 
havent been persuaded that Halifax applied its terms unfairly. 
When Halifax responded to Mr Rs complaint it adjusted and refunded interest meaning he 
hasnt been charged. Halifax has confirmed it took that step as a gesture of goodwill to try 
and resolve Mr Rs complaint. Im satisfied that Halifax has dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly, 
so Im not telling it to take further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman