DRN-3355289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that the fee waiver on their Platinum Account (PA) was withdrawn by 
TSB Bank plc (TSB) in early 2021 and they lost money as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt understand the letter they were sent by TSB when it 
withdrew their fee waiver in February 2021. And as a result, they paid some monthly fees 
before they were able to downgrade their PA to a fee-free account.
TSB says it sent a letter to all PA account holders and it says its letter was clear about what 
was happening and what Mr and Mrs Ss options were. TSB says it acted on changing the 
account as soon as it received a request from Mr and Mrs S.
As our adjudicator said in her view, TSB was entitled to change the terms and conditions of 
an account provided it gave appropriate notice, which in this case I think it did. So, I dont 
think TSB did anything wrong in changing how the PA worked.
The key to this complaint is the letter that TSB sent out to all its account holders about the 
PA change and whether it explained the change sufficiently.
So, I requested a copy of the letter that TSB sent out, and Ive looked at it carefully and 
taken into account that Mr and Mrs S are elderly.
In my view the letter TSB sent would have been sufficient for Mr and Mrs S to understand 
that an important change to the PA was taking place that might affect them and that they 
could change the account if they wished or needed to. The letter also provides a phone 
number for Mr and Mrs S to call if they needed any further information about what was 
happening.
So, although I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, in my view TSB didnt do anything 
wrong when communicating the PA account change to Mr and Mrs S and so I cant uphold 
their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman