DRN-3753570
The complaint
Mr H complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) placed his account under review, restricted it, and 
then closed it without reason.  
What happened
In April 2021, Revolut placed Mr Hs account under review and placed restrictions on the 
account. As part of its review, Revolut asked Mr H for several documents relating to his 
source of funds. It also asked him if he had had another Revolut account in the past. 
Mr H provided Revolut with his salary slips and bank statements. He said as he was 
employed, his tax was taken out of his salary directly. And in the country in which he lives, 
he doesnt have to provide tax returns for the first five years. Mr H also said he had not held 
another Revolut account. 
Revolut told Mr H his source of funds documents had been approved and his account was 
now fully operational. 
Around a week later, Mr H contact Revolut to tell it that his account has been restricted. He 
was unhappy as he thought the matter had been sorted out a week earlier. Revolut 
apologised but explained it was carrying out some further checks. 
In May 2021, Mr H was informed by Revolut it would close his account and he could transfer 
funds out to another account if he chooses. In his chat with Revolut, Mr H said he was given 
60 days to transfer the funds out. 
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, Mr H complained. As Revolut did not uphold his complaint, 
he referred it to this service. Mr Hs account was closed in June 2021. 
Whilst Mr Hs complaint was waiting to be looked into by one of our Investigators, Revolut 
made him an offer of £20 as full and final settlement to resolve it. Mr H did not accept this as 
he wanted his account to be re-opened, and he felt it had made a wrongful assessment of 
him when carrying out the review. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Hs complaint. They did not uphold it. In 
summary, they said: 
- Revolut has the right to review and block Mr Hs account  and it did so in line with its 
obligations and terms of account
- Revolut isnt obliged to provide any notice or explanation 
- Revoluts review was carried out promptly and without delay 
- Generally, its for Revolut to decide who it provides, or continues to provide, its 
services to. Revolut was entitled to close the account, and complied with its terms 
and condition in doing so 
Mr H did not agree. In short, he said Revoluts reasons for closing his account were wrong 
despite the closure being in line with the terms of the account. Our Investigator said Revolut 
had commercial discretion - and was under no obligation to provide its reason for blocking 
and closing the account. They also said Revolut had provided this service with its reasons, 
and based on that, it had acted fairly. 
Unhappy with what our Investigator said, Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to decide his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr H, 
so Ill explain why. 
Regulated financial businesses in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means 
banks need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having seen Revoluts reasons for reviewing Mr Hs account, Im satisfied it acted fairly, and 
in line with obligations placed on it when doing so. Its unfortunate that either the restrictions 
werent lifted when Revolut said they were  or a second review was instigated shortly after. 
Having carefully reviewed the information Revolut have given me, I can see why it carried 
out a second review. But, if it hadnt, there was reason enough for it to further consider its 
relationship with Mr H and keep his account under review.
Revolut is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Revolut closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Having carefully reviewed the terms, Im persuaded Revolut acted fairly in applying them and 
closing Mr Hs account. It also appears Mr H was able to transfer his funds out whilst the 
notice to close the account was in motion. 
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that Revolut have not treated him fairly by closing the 
account, as his activities were not suspicious nor lead to any concern. Neither Revolut, nor I, 
are under any obligation, that Im aware of, to disclose the reasons it took these actions. But 
Im satisfied Revolut had reason enough to take the actions it did. 
As Revolut did nothing wrong, and as it is free to choose its customers, in the same way a 
customer is free to choose who it banks with, it does not need to re-open Mr Hs account. 
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, I havent seen anything that suggests Revolut 
caused undue delay in reviewing Mr Hs account. So I dont award any compensation for 
that. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman