DRN-4224735
The complaint
Ms M complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) decision not to pay a claim made 
under a commercial insurance property.
What happened
Ms M owns a property which she rents out. She says a letting agent took out a Rent 
Guarantee Plus Policy for her benefit, with the letting agent being the policy holder. In 
April 2022, Ms M says the tenants left the property and withheld one months rent. 
 
Ms M made a claim under the policy. She says Ageas told her she needed to provide a copy 
of a report from the Tenancy Deposit Scheme to support her claim. This was provided and it 
showed Ms M had been looking to claim £2,531.40 from her tenants to cover the cost of 
cleaning and damages. The scheme noted the total deposit held was £2,250. Ms M was 
awarded £470 and the balance of £1,780 was awarded to the tenants. Ageas considered 
this information and paid Ms M £170. It said this was the difference between the rental 
arrears of £1,950 and the £1,780 awarded to the tenants by the Tenancy Deposit Scheme.
Unhappy with this response, Ms M complained. However, Ageas didnt change its decision 
on the claims outcome, saying in line with the policy terms. Ms M referred her complaint to 
us. It was considered by one of our investigators who considered Ageas had handled the 
claim in line with the policy terms. He didnt require Ageas to do anything more. As Ms M 
didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, while Ms M says the policy was mis-sold to her and misrepresented to 
her, I need to be clear this isnt something we can help her with. This is because Ms M says 
the policy was taken out by the letting agent, and theyre the policyholder with Ms M noted 
as having an interest in the policy. Our role is to resolve disputes between consumers and 
financial businesses  not letting agents.
This claim between the tenants and Ms M has been adjudicated by a third party  the 
Tenancy Deposit Scheme. I cant consider any of the issues that have already been decided 
by another arbitration scheme. All Im able to consider here is if Ageas has acted fairly in 
settling the claim in line with the policy terms.
Ageas says Ms M ought to have used the Tenancy Deposit Scheme to reclaim the unpaid 
rental income she was owed. And, because she didnt do so, Ageas has only paid her the 
balance between the amount awarded to the tenants and the monthly rent. In taking this 
action, Ageas is relying on the following policy term:
Upon gaining Vacant Possession of the Property in order to calculate any final 
Monthly Benefit due, You or the Landlord must disclose by way of proper receipted 
invoices, or details of the adjudication of a Tenancy Deposit scheme. regarding the 
use of all or part of the Deposit that has been used specifically to repair damage 
caused by the Tenant beyond usual wear and tear. Any remaining balance must be 
applied to unpaid Rent.
Ageas has provided an email showing Ms M could have submitted the outstanding rent as 
part of her claim to the Tenancy Deposit Scheme. Had Ms M made a claim for unpaid rent, 
Ageas says it is likely the Tenancy Deposit Scheme would have deducted the rental arrears 
from the £1,780 remaining from the deposit after awarding Ms M some additional costs from 
the deposit. And this would have meant Ageas would only have been required to pay Ms M 
£170.  
Ms M says she was told by the Tenancy Deposit Scheme that claiming for loss of rent 
wouldnt be advisable because she had insurance in place to cover this. I appreciate this is 
Ms Ms recollection of advice she says she was given. In the face of conflicting information  
as is the case here  I need to decide what of the available evidence I find more persuasive. 
Here, I find the email from the Tenancy Deposit Scheme (forwarded to Ms M on 
16 June 2022) to be most persuasive. It says:
What documents should I submit?
A statement showing rent due and received and any periods for which rent 
was not paid if your claim includes unpaid rent)
I cant hold Ageas responsible for any advice Ms M says she was given by a third party. Its 
clear Ms Ms claim to the Tenancy Deposit Scheme didnt include the loss of rent. But it was 
something that she could have asked the Tenancy Deposit Scheme to consider.  
However, as Ms M didnt ask for the rental arrears to be included as part of her claim, the 
deposit was awarded in part to her (to cover some of her claim for damages) and the 
balance to the tenants. Ageas said the policy only required it to pay the balance between the 
amount returned to the tenants and the total rental arrears. And given there was an 
opportunity for Ms M to have tried to have claimed the rental arrears through the Tenancy 
Deposit Scheme initially, but she didnt do so, its position has been prejudiced.
I dont consider that the overall conclusion Ageas has reached is unreasonable. The policy 
terms say the remaining balance of the deposit should be used to repay unpaid rent, but   
Ms M didnt evidence this claim to the Tenancy Deposit Scheme.
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. It 
seems, from the evidence provided, that Ms M could have had the claim for rent arrears 
considered by the Tenancy Deposit Scheme, but she decided not to. Given the information 
available to me, for the reasons set out in this decision, I dont consider that Ageas acted 
unfairly by limiting the payment under the policy to £170. Im therefore not going to require it 
to increase the payment for the remaining rental arrears to Ms M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman