DRN-1712870
The complaint
Mrs H complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line Pet Insurance (Direct 
Line), unfairly declined claims made under her pet insurance policy.  
Although the insurance policy is in Mrs Hs name, Mr H has dealt with the complaint on her 
behalf. So, any reference to Mrs H will also include what Mr H has told us.    
What happened
In early March 2019, Mrs H purchased a pet insurance policy with Direct Line. At this point 
its my understanding that Mrs H didnt say her dog, B, had any pre-existing conditions in 
relation to her stomach. 
In August 2019, B fell ill with vomiting and diarrhoea. So, Mrs H claimed under her pet 
insurance policy for the treatment and tests B had received in order to resolve the problem 
she was suffering with.    
    
Direct Line said Mrs Hs claims were for a pre-existing condition. It said B had been suffering 
from stomach problems  diarrhoea and vomiting on and off since 2015.  And as the policy 
didnt include treatment or testing for pre-existing conditions, they declined the claims.     
   
Mrs H didnt think Direct Line should have declined the claims as she said B hadnt received 
a diagnosis, or ever been on medication or a special diet. Mrs H said most of the visits B had 
at the vets were to make sure she was on a dog food she would like - and to gain advice 
from the vet, as this was the familys first pet. 
Mrs H said the records now seem to show that B was visiting the vet, having been sick all 
the time, but this was not the case. Lastly, Mrs H also said she had evidence from the vet, 
which showed the visits to the vets were for isolated things, rather than linked to a pre-
existing condition.   
   
As Mrs H didnt agree with Direct Lines response, she referred her complaint to this service 
for an independent review.  
    
Our investigators view was that Mrs Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. She noted the terms 
and conditions of the policy excluded claims for conditions or symptoms that happened or 
existed in any form before the insurance policy started. And as B had previously had the 
same symptoms and signs of illness, and before the insurance policy started, Direct Line 
had acted reasonably when they declined Mrs Hs claims.    
    
As Mrs H remained unhappy, the complaint was given to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.   
    
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy to see what cover the policy 
provided. The policy does provide cover for treatment and tests. But, within these terms and 
conditions, its explained that any claims in connection with or arising from a pre-existing 
condition would not be covered under the policy. And, the policy goes on to explain any 
claims for recurring conditions that are any way connected or, or as a result of a pre-exiting 
condition would not be covered either.
 
The policy does explain what is meant by a pre-existing condition. It is defined as;    
Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form 
before the pet was covered by this insurance.   
 
Given the above, if B was showing any sign of injury of illness that had existed before the 
start of the policy (March 2019), Mrs Hs would not be able to claim for that issue  instead 
the loss would be declined. 
So, Ive considered Bs medical history to decide whether Direct Line acted reasonably in 
noting the loss claimed for in this case was for a pre-existing condition, as defined by the 
policy. 
    
Having done so, Im satisfied the medical history shows B suffered from an intermittent 
history of similar stomach symptoms before Mrs H purchased the policy. And that based on 
the above definitions, this would be considered a pre-existing problem. So, the policy 
wouldnt cover any costs in relation to it.
I say this because in November 2015 the medical notes mention stomach issues, which 
were later resolved with a change in food. Following that, there are several occasions of 
diarrhoea noted in 2018, and then again in January 2019, when B unfortunately suffered 
from sickness, and diarrhoea again. This again, manifested in August 2019, which are the 
losses Mrs H raised a claim for.  
B attended a referral vets in August 2019. The report from the referral vet noted that B was 
referred to them for further investigation of vomiting. The report noted that when questioned 
it was explained that B had a six-month history of intermittent vomiting and large intestinal 
diarrhoea  which had typically responded to supportive treatment. It noted this incident was 
more concerning because of changes in the Bs behaviour, and well as a three-week 
duration of sickness of diarrhoea.  
The referral vet noting its investigations hadnt revealed an obvious aetiology And that given 
the chronic intermittent history, an underlying chronic enteropathy is suspected (e.g. food 
responsive or IBD).
Because Mrs Hs policy began in March 2019, and the above does show its most likely there 
were symptoms and signs of illness ongoing since 2015, Im satisfied Direct Line acted fairly 
in declining the claim.
Mrs H doesnt think there was a connection between the claims and previous illnesses 
before she purchased the policy - in particular a bout of sickness in January 2019. And shes 
submitted two pieces of correspondence to Direct Line from vets involved in her dogs care 
in support of her position.    
The first said it was considered that the illness in January 2019 was viral gastroenteritis, and 
this was a commonly seen problem. It noted most dogs suffered a few bouts of this 
throughout their life. And that as there was no formal diagnosis of an underlying issue for B, 
a previous bout of gastroenteritis shouldnt lead to an exclusion being applied in this case. 
 
The second said the two incidents in 2019 were months apart. So, as there hadnt been a 
formal diagnosis - it couldnt be proven that the illnesses in January 2019 and August 2019 
were connected. 
   
I do appreciate that these statements note there was no formal link or diagnosis between the 
two events. But a diagnosis isnt required for Direct Line to consider an illness as a pre-
existing condition; only signs or symptoms of illness. And given the information provided to 
me I think its clear there have been signs or symptoms prior to the purchase of the policy, in 
this case. So, I think it was fair for Direct Line to consider this while assessing Mrs Hs claims 
 and reasonable for them to conclude B had a pre-existing condition as defined in the 
policy. And therefore, to make the decision to decline the claim. 
Im aware Mrs H has raised a further question asking what the policy covers if pre-existing 
conditions arent covered. Mrs Hs policy will provide cover for the things it details within her 
policy documents, but this does exclude what are termed as pre-existing conditions under 
the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  And therefore, I dont 
require UK Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman