DRN-3199982
The complaint
Mr H complains that a used car supplied by Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) under 
a finance agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr H acquired this car in July 2020 under a hire purchase agreement (HPA). Not long after 
collection he noticed a light on the dashboard that suggested a bulb needed replacing. He 
changed the bulb but the problem persisted. He had the car checked and was told the base 
unit had to be replaced. He contacted the supplying dealer but it didnt help and Mr H 
contacted SMFL in November 2020. Mr H experienced further issues - windows wouldnt 
open or shut and USB ports didnt work  so he took the car to a main dealer for checks the 
following January. The dealer thought water found in the car boot was affecting the light by 
the number plate. It was unable to replicate the other issues but noted these were 
intermittent and considered they were probably due to water ingress as well. 
Mr H thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality when he got it. He wanted to reject it so 
SMFL arranged for an independent expert to check the car a week or two later, in mid-
January 2021. The expert confirmed there was standing water in the boot and some 
dampness inside the car. He found the number plate light unit had heavy water 
contamination which had caused the bulb to fail. He thought further investigation was 
needed to identify the exact cause but considered it was unlikely water was present when 
the car was supplied - or Mr H would have had problems sooner, within the first 500 -1,000 
miles. SMFL didnt think it should have to do anything else in view of the experts findings 
and Mr H referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. She was satisfied that Mr H experienced 
electrical issues soon after he got the car and its likely these were caused by water ingress. 
She thought the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality at the outset and, taking into 
account the delays and inconvenience Mr H experienced, he should be allowed to reject it. 
She recommended SMFL should take the car back and return the deposit of £1,200 (plus 
interest). She wasnt persuaded that any monthly payments should be refunded - as Mr H 
had fair use of the car. She was satisfied he experienced stress and inconvenience and 
considered it would be fair for SMFL to pay £200 compensation to reflect that - and remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H didnt agree. He feels he should have five monthly instalments refunded as he didnt 
get full use of the car. He says he used it for work, not social purposes, as SMFL told him 
use could make things worse. SMFL didnt agree with the investigators recommendations 
either. It said (in summary):-
water ingress can occur due to seals that are worn as a result of normal wear and 
tear; 
this issue wasnt picked up when Mr H had the bulb checked originally  which 
suggests the water wasnt present then or it would have been noticed; 
the fact that Mr H had further issues as time went on shows the water ingress 
wasnt a problem at the outset; 
the expert and the main dealer confirm there was water present in January 2021 
but thats more than six months after Mr H got the car; and 
its wrong to dismiss the experts opinion that the water was unlikely to be present 
when the car was supplied.
The investigator remained satisfied, on balance, that it was more likely than not Mr H had 
electrical issues very soon after he got the car - and this was due to a fault that allowed 
water in. She told SMFL that her recommendations remained the same. SMFL didnt 
respond and the matter was referred to me for a decision. Having considered the available 
evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint but my reasons werent quite the same as 
the investigators. I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional 
findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 October 2021. Ive summarised what I decided provisionally and 
why below  this forms part of my final decision.  
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
SMFL supplied this car to Mr H under a finance agreement and SMFL was required under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure (amongst other things) that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary 
depending on individual circumstances, but it is generally considered reasonable to take the 
age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into account in the case of a used car.
The car that Mr H got here was around five years old, cost nearly £14,000 and had about 
57,000 miles on the clock. As such I think most people would accept it was likely to have 
some parts that were worn and would need replacing or repairing sooner or later  which is 
reflected in the lower price paid compared to the price of a brand new vehicle.
Both the main dealer and the independent expert confirmed that there was water inside the 
car in January 2021. I cant be certain what caused this water ingress  the dealer and the 
expert both say it would need to be investigated. But Im satisfied the water shouldnt be 
there. As far as I can see, neither the dealer or the expert have suggested that the water 
may have entered due to seals that are worn through normal wear and tear. Id expect them 
to have said so if they thought that was a possibility, in this situation and Im not persuaded 
its likely  in view of the cars age and mileage. On balance, I think the water ingress is 
probably due to a fault. 
SMFL considers this water ingress is unlikely to have been present at the point of supply or 
Mr H would have had problems sooner  and it would have been picked up when the car 
was checked by third parties early on. I can see the expert also says its unlikely because 
the problem would have been apparent within 500- 1000 miles. Mr H told us there was an 
electrical problem almost as soon as he got the car. Ive also seen a text he sent the 
supplying dealer in early November 2020 that says an electrical management light (EML) 
had illuminated on the dash intermittently since he got the car (which indicated the rear 
numberplate light was inactive). Mr H said he had this EML checked when it came on permanently and he was told the whole unit (not just the bulb) needed replacing. SMFL has 
also confirmed that Mr H complained in early November 2020 about the number plate bulb 
not working and inoperative USB posts - and he reported some windows werent working on 
25 November 2020. 
Like the investigator, I find Mr Hs evidence about the nature and timing of the various 
electrical issues to be credible and consistent with events. I think its plausible that he didnt 
approach SMFL for a few months  after he tried to resolve these elsewhere. And its 
understandable that Mr H didnt keep a record of these earlier efforts because he thought 
this was just a minor issue to do with a replacement bulb.
SMFL seems to accept that Mr H had the car checked some time before he complained in 
November 2020  it says the fact the water ingress wasnt picked up then shows it wasnt 
present at that time. I accept no water ingress was identified by the mechanics that checked 
the car initially. But I think thats probably because less water was getting in during the drier 
summer months  which would also explain why Mr H didnt have more significant issues 
sooner and why the ingress of water had become more obvious by January 2021. I dont 
think its a coincidence that the electrical problems started to get worse towards the end of 
the year  when more rainfall is likely. I can see from the job card supplied by the main 
dealer that the number plate lamp still wasnt working in January 2021. And it was noted 
then that the relevant unit had already been replaced once but water appears to be getting 
into boot lid. The dealer drained this water but the expert found standing water in the boot 
again - around the battery - just a week or so later (when he was unable to undertake a 
smoke test due to heavy rain).
Im satisfied the main dealer concluded that the problems Mr H reported were due to water 
ingress, which can cause intermittent faults with the ECU that would affect windows and 
bulbs, amongst other things. The expert doesnt appear to take issue with this conclusion. I 
acknowledge he refers to the general possibility of electrical issues occurring suddenly as a 
result of deterioration over time - but this fails to address the fact that water was found here 
and the likely impact of this water ingress. I think the expert seems to have concluded that 
the water ingress was unlikely to have been present when the car was supplied on the fact 
problems werent reported to SMFL until about four months later. The expert says he had 
no evidence to suggest the faults were present at an earlier instance in his instructions. For 
the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Mr H had issues before that. It looks as if the expert 
wasnt aware of the trouble Mr H had with the car early on and he may well have reached a 
different view if hed known about that.
Under the CRA faults that appear within six months are taken to have been present at the 
point of supply - unless theres evidence to the contrary. From the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Mr H had a series of electrical issues within six months of acquiring this car - 
the first of which occurred intermittently shortly after supply when a bulb stopped working. I 
am minded to find it more likely than not this was caused by the ingress of water. I dont 
think the intermittent malfunction of these various electrical parts is an insignificant issue. Im 
satisfied a fair-minded person would consider this car has a fault. And I think this was 
probably present at the outset meaning the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Putting things right
Working out whats fair in these circumstances isnt an exact science. For the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im satisfied this car was probably of unsatisfactory quality when Mr H got it. 
So Ive thought about whether its reasonable to allow him to reject the car - or SMFL should 
have the opportunity to repair. I can see the main dealer advised a complete strip down was required to establish the 
source of the water ingress - and that would cost nearly £800. The expert seems to agree 
further investigation is required and I note, from SMFLs investigations, that only a main 
dealer would be able to undertake the necessary investigations and repairs  which seems 
to fit with what Mr H says he was told when he made enquiries. Taken together with the 
various efforts Mr H made to have things sorted out over the first six months, Im not 
satisfied that this issue is likely to be resolved easily. I find it understandable that Mr H is 
concerned about the effect of the water ingress so far and the durability of parts going 
forward. From the information Ive got, I cant safely conclude there wont be a long term 
impact. And, bearing in mind the time thats passed since Mr H first complained and the 
inconvenience hes experienced, I dont think its fair to expect him to wait any longer to see 
if the car can be fixed. I am minded to find it is fair and reasonable to allow Mr H to reject the 
car and have his deposit refunded (plus interest).
It looks as if Mr H provided with a courtesy car while this car was off the road in January 
2021. And SMFL seems to have considered funding the cost of hiring an alternative vehicle 
in February 2021 - but Mr H said this wasnt needed. Mr H told us he was advised the car 
wouldnt pass an MOT earlier this year - due to the fault with the light. But it looks as if the 
car passed an MOT in July 2021 when I checked the MOT history - the car failed initially due 
to the inoperative registration plate lamp and tyre tread depth. I think this suggests Mr H paid 
for the repairs required but I havent seen any evidence of that. And I havent seen any 
documentary evidence to show that Mr H was advised not to drive the car. 
I dont have enough evidence, at the moment, to reasonably conclude that Mr H was unable 
to use this car for a significant period as a result of the fault referred to above. The car had 
about 57,000 miles on the clock when Mr H got it in July 2020. I note the expert recorded 
just over 62,000 miles on the odometer in January 2021 and a mileage of nearly  66,000 was 
recorded at the MOT in July the same year. I think this suggests Mr H was able to cover 
about 9,000 miles over the 12 months he had the car - which is about average. I find it fair 
Mr H should pay for the use he had of the vehicle. And Im not presently persuaded that I 
can reasonably require SMFL to waive or refund any monthly payments. Its open to Mr H to 
supply more evidence about this however I will consider that before I make my final decision.
The credit broker appears to have paid for the experts report and Mr H hasnt supplied 
evidence of any further costs (for diagnostics or repairs or similar) that he incurred. I accept 
Mr H experienced frustration, upset and inconvenience  having to take the car for various 
checks and investigations. And I am minded to find it is reasonable for SMFL to pay £200 
compensation for that. 
Ive seen some suggestion that Mr H stopped making the monthly payments due under the 
finance agreement earlier this year. For the reasons Ive explained, I am not minded (on the 
current evidence) to find he should have any payments waived or refunded. But I dont think 
its fair for Mr Hs credit record to be impacted adversely in this situation. Im inclined 
therefore to find SMFL should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Hs 
credit file - provided hes able to bring his payments up to date. If Mr H is likely to struggle to 
do so in one go, Id expect SMFL to agree an appropriate payment plan.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments by 21 October 2021 explaining that Id look at all the evidence available after that 
and make my final decision.
The responses received from the parties
SMFL accepted my provisional findings in principle. It said Mr H hadnt made a finance 
payment since October 2020 so the arrears are currently over £3,000. SMFL thought it was unreasonable to remove any adverse reporting while there is still an outstanding balance. 
And it wanted to deduct the deposit refund (and possibly the £200 compensation) from the 
arrears to reduce the amount owed. 
Mr H doesnt think thats fair. He says (in summary):- 
he was told to not to use the car for a number of months then he was told it was fine 
to use it by someone else - and he had to pay for the MOT because he needed the 
car for work;
he stopped making finance payments partly because SMFL was so unhelpful but 
also because he experienced financial difficulties as work hours were reduced due to 
the pandemic;
compensation should be increased due to the lack of cooperation from SMFL  he 
was sent to various different garages, for example, losing a number of days annual 
leave, just to be told that SMFL didnt accept any of the recommendations;
he wouldnt be in this situation if he hadnt been supplied with a faulty car and its 
unfair for the refund and compensation to be deducted from arrears as he would 
have used this money to help source a replacement; and
it will take months to correct his credit file which will make it difficult to get alternative 
transportation to and from work - further impacting on his income adversely.
Mr H would like SMFL to pay the compensation and refund his deposit upfront - so he can 
get a new vehicle - or swap the car and provide another finance deal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the responses received from the parties. Id seen nothing to show that Mr H 
was told (by SMFL or a relevant professional) that this car shouldnt be driven - or that Mr H 
had incurred further losses (such as lost earnings) as a result of faults present. We asked Mr 
H if he could supply any further evidence and gave him some additional time to do so  but 
he hasnt sent us anything else. 
I understand Mr H has concerns about hows hes going to afford a replacement car when 
this one is returned. But Im afraid I cant require SMFL to provide new finance on a different 
car that would involve an entirely separate lending decision. 
Im satisfied that it was Mr Hs responsibility to make the monthly payments due under the 
terms of this finance agreement. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Mr H had 
reasonable use of the car (or a courtesy vehicle) throughout. Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably require SMFL to refund or waive any monthly payments. 
I think its reasonable that Mr H should pay for the use of the car - so any missed payments 
should be brought up to date. I realise this will probably feel unfair to Mr H but Im not 
persuaded its unreasonable for SMFL to use the deposit refund to reduce the arrears, in 
these particular circumstances. Im satisfied that applying the refund in this way will reduce 
the debt - so he gets the benefit of the money. And, if Mr H needs more time to repay any 
outstanding balance, Id expect SMFL to set up an appropriate repayment plan. SMFL told us the current arrears are over £3,000. Mr H says this built up partly because of 
financial problems he had during the pandemic. Im very sorry to hear about Mr Hs financial 
issues. I understand hes been in touch with SMFL about those already - and he received a 
number of payment deferrals. If Mr H is unhappy about how SMFL treated him when he 
experienced money problems then he would need to raise this with SMFL. And, if hes not 
satisfied with the response, he may be able to bring another complaint to our service. But 
thats not something Im able to look into at this stage in this decision. 
For the reasons Ive given already, I remain of the view that the amount of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience set out in my provisional decision is fair. I have taken on board 
what Mr H says about having to visit several garages and provide additional information that 
SMFL didnt accept. I have no doubt this was frustrating and inconvenient for him but I 
consider £200 is sufficient compensation, in all of the circumstances. SMFL seems to have 
no objection to paying the compensation direct to Mr H (rather than deducting it from the 
arrears) after the car is booked in for collection. I understand Mr H would prefer to have the 
compensation paid direct as well and I think that sounds reasonable.  
I consider its fair that any adverse information that SMFL has recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
should be removed - once the payments due have been brought up to date. For the 
avoidance of any doubt however, Id expect any existing arrangements in relation to 
payments deferred due to Covid to remain in place - in line with the relevant guidance. 
I realise this decision may come as a disappointment to Mr H because (whilst I am upholding 
his complaint) its not the outcome he wanted overall. Mr H is not obliged to accept my 
decision, in which case it remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means 
available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited to:- 
1. end the finance agreement and arrange to take the car back at no additional cost to 
Mr H; 
2. refund the deposit paid of £1,200 plus interest (at 8% simple a year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement) - which may be used to reduce outstanding 
arrears; 
3.pay Mr H £200 compensation direct, for distress and inconvenience; and 
4. remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file after the arrears have 
been repaid.   
If SMFL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman