DRN-3096722
The complaint
The estate of Mr S (The estate) complains that Santander UK Plc did not explain the process 
of transferring a Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) to an Inheritance ISA.  
What happened
The estate informed Santander of the passing of Mr S and were given details of the 
accounts he held with them which included a Cash ISA. The estate say they were given a 
leaflet about an Inheritance ISA and they were expecting to finalise what to do with the 
estates funds.
The estate then received a letter from Santander before they had decided what to do with 
the estates funds which thanked the estate for letting Santander know what to do next. This 
prompted the estate to ring Santander. An Inheritance ISA and the Additional Permitted 
Subscription (APS) were discussed on the phone call but the call handler didnt seem aware 
of the interest rates of the ISAs and the estate was told by Santander that they needed to 
visit a branch to open the Inheritance ISA.
When an executor of the estate visited the branch to open the account, they said Santander 
told them they needed to make an appointment to do this with a specialised member of staff. 
The estate made an appointment, but they said that the member of staff they spoke to 
queried why they were at the branch and they waited for an hour while the staff member 
tried to find out how to transfer the funds to an Inheritance ISA, only to be told that they 
would have to come back another time as their next appointment was due. 
The estate says the ISA was closed and the funds were put into a savings account and they 
should have been made aware of the process for an Inheritance ISA at this point. The estate 
complained to Santander as they still hadnt managed to get the funds transferred to the 
Inheritance ISA. They said they had lost out as the Inheritance ISA had been opened in a 
later tax year to when it shouldve been. They asked for compensation for the time they had 
spent in the branch and over the telephone and to be compensated for the loss of interest. 
They also wanted Santander to make improvements in the future to ensure this wouldnt 
happen again.
Santander upheld the complaint and offered £200 compensation. They said that senior 
management within the probate and bereavement team had sight of the estates complaint. 
Santander said the regional manager would pick up the issues raised about the local branch 
and would cascade this to the relevant team to avoid other customers experiencing the 
same thing. Santander agreed that if the process had been handled differently initially then 
this may have alleviated the need for further appointments and call backs and they 
apologised for this.
The estate brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator said when we investigate 
complaints, we consider whether the business has made an error. If we agree an error has 
been made, wed then think about how this has impacted the complainant and if anything 
further needs to happen to resolve the complaint. But we wont ask a business to make an 
award to an executor, only the eligible complainant, which in this case, is the estate of Mr S.
Our investigator also said while the Inheritance ISA should have been opened earlier, he 
believes the offer Santander has made, fairly resolves this issue, as the subscription allowed 
to be used was limited to the value of Mr Ss ISA once it was closed. So even if the account 
had been opened earlier, the same amount would have been deposited and accrued the 
same amount of interest, which Santander explained this in an email to the estate on 30 
June 2020. The estate asked an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr S passing away. I know this must be difficult for those looking 
after his estate as its never easy sorting out financial affairs at such an emotional time.
Its clear the level of service provided by Santander wasnt always at the level the estate 
expected, or that Santander themselves hoped to provide. There were mistakes made that 
could have been avoided.
Ive considered what the estate has said regarding if the process of the Inheritance ISA was 
explained initially then this would have saved them having to visit the branch multiple times 
and call back Santander to clarify details. Santander have agreed with this point. And Im 
satisfied that this would have saved the multiple branch visits and call backs to Santander. 
Ive also seen that Santander have made staff in the probate and bereavement team and the 
regional manager aware of the estates concerns, so this should give them some comfort that 
this will help prevent this type of situation from happening in the future, which the estate had 
asked Santander to do this.
Ive then considered the compensation which Santander offered. Our investigator has 
already explained to the estate that we cant compensate executors of an estate personally 
as they wouldnt be considered the eligible complainant here. Santander have offered £150 
for poor service and £50 was rounded up for lost interest (Santander calculated that the 
account would have earned £14.32 if the account had been transferred on 19 November 
2019, when the first branch visit was made, up until the date of the final response letter). Im 
persuaded that this is a fair amount of compensation as this shows Santander have 
acknowledged that they have given poor service and has put the estate back in broadly the 
same position they would have been if the account had been opened when they first visited 
the branch. 
I know the estate is concerned that they have lost out on an ISA subscription as the 
Inheritance ISA was opened in a later tax year as opposed to when it should have been 
opened. So it may help if I explain that the Additional Permitted Subscription which is 
allowed to be used, was limited to the value of Mr Ss ISA once it was closed. So even if the 
account had been opened earlier, the same amount would have been deposited into the 
account and no further contributions could have been made to the account (apart from any 
interest).
In summary, I agree there were service failings. However, I dont consider these service 
failings are sufficient to enable me to conclude that Santander should pay higher 
compensation. I appreciate the situation was a difficult one for the estate as it stemmed from 
a loved one passing away. However, I agree that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation to reflect the service failings and loss of interest identified by Santander.
My final decisionSantander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £200 to the estate of Mr S (if they have 
not done so already). But I wont be requiring them to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman