DRN-3077431
The complaint
Mr D complains about Revolut Ltds actions in relation to a scam in which he lost £1,041.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr D was contacted by scammers pretending to work for an investment 
company. Later that month he transferred £1,041 across various transactions to a 
cryptocurrency exchange  Ill refer to here as A. 
Mr D became aware that he had been scammed so he contacted Revolut and made a 
complaint in March 2021. Mr D said Revolut shouldve realised the payments he made to A 
were suspicious and it shouldve made reasonable enquiries into why he was making the 
payments. Revolut considered the complaint and issued a final response letter on 15 March 
2021 rejecting Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr D referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said the actual cause of the loss was the transfer Mr D 
made from A to the scammers. So, the loss hadnt been caused by Revoluts actions or lack 
of action. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He maintained that sending money 
to A shouldve flagged with Revolut this was a suspicious and high-risk transfer and that 
Revolut shouldve been aware of this type of scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr D feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. In this case, 
Im satisfied that Mr D knew the transactions were being made and authorised them.
Ive thought carefully about whether its fair and reasonable to hold Revolut responsible for 
Mr Ds loss. I understand he transferred the funds from his Revolut account to an account he 
held with A  a cryptocurrency exchange. He then made a further transfer from A to the 
scammers. Mr D says Revolut shouldve been aware of the dangers in transferring money to 
A and taken action to prevent him from completing the transactions. 
The key question here is  whats the actual cause of Mr Ds loss? In my view, there was a 
new, intervening act between the transfers from Revolut to A (or Revoluts alleged failure to 
intervene in those transfers) which was the cause of the loss. That was the onward transfers 
to the scammers from A. Mr D wouldnt have suffered this loss had it not been for the later 
transfers from the account he held with A. So, Im satisfied that was the actual cause of his 
loss. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr D. Based on what Ive been told about how the 
scam unfolded, I dont hold him at fault for what happened. But for the reasons set out 
above, I also dont think Revoluts actions caused his loss. So, I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to direct Revolut to take responsibility for this and reimburse him for the money 
he lost to the scammers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman