DRN-4497916
The complaint
Mr K complains that Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth Limited (Schroders) sent 
his March 2022 statement four months late. He says that, if hed received the statement 
when he should have, he would have encashed his portfolio because it had made a loss. By 
the time he received the statement, the portfolio was showing a bigger loss.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by his daughter. For ease of reading, Ill refer to 
everything as if its been said by Mr K.
What happened
Mr K has a general investment account (GIA) and an individual savings account (ISA) 
with Schroders managed on a discretionary basis. He also has an agreement for on-going 
advice from a Personal Wealth Adviser.
Mr K had an annual review with his advisor in January 2021. Shortly afterwards his adviser 
left, and he was assigned a new one. But the new advisor didnt make contact and in 
July 2022 Mr K complained. Schroders apologised and refunded its ongoing advice fee of 
£3,095.07 and paid Mr K £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr K didnt 
mention this part of his complaint when he initially referred to our service, so our investigator 
assumed it had been resolved to his satisfaction.
He also complained that he hadnt received his quarterly statement for January to 
March 2022 until July. He says that at the end of March his portfolio had decreased in value 
and, if hed received the statement on time, he would have encashed his portfolio to prevent 
further losses. Schroders apologised, explaining that it had been developing the contents of 
its statements which led to delays in them being sent. It said Mr K couldve got a valuation at 
any time if he was registered for its online service or if hed contacted its regional support 
team, or his adviser. It said markets had been volatile, but the investments were designed 
for growth in the medium to long term and Schroders wouldnt have advised crystallising the 
loss in March 2022. Mr K referred this part of his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Mr K would have encashed his investments if hed received his January to March 2022 
statement on time.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Theres no evidence of him encashing investments in the past in reaction to losses 
because, prior to March 2022, his portfolio hadnt lost any value.
He wasnt told his adviser had left and Schroders continued to send him mail with the 
advisers name on it. So he thought the adviser was looking after his portfolio when, in 
reality, no one was reviewing his investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Schroders terms and conditions say:
You will receive a periodic statement of the contents and valuation of your portfolio. This 
must be provided to you every three months..
And the terms go on to point out that, the value of your investments may have changed by 
the time you receive the statement.
Schroders says theres no set time frame for issuing the statements. I disagree. The terms 
say they will be provided every three months. The December statement was posted on 
17 February 2022, so I would have expected the March statement to have been posted by 
17 May 2022. It wasnt posted until 21 June. Schroders said Mr K couldve phoned to 
request an up-to-date valuation at any time, but that doesnt change the fact that it didnt 
provide the March statement when it should have. Schroders has apologised for the delay in 
sending the March statement. I need to decide whether Schroders mistake has led to Mr K 
incurring a financial loss for which he should be compensated. So Ive thought about 
whether Mr K would have acted differently if hed received the statement when he should 
have and, specifically, whether I think he would have given instructions to encash his 
portfolio.
After careful consideration Im not persuaded Mr K would have given instructions to sell his 
investments and close his portfolio if hed received the statement for January to March 2022 
earlier than he did. I say that because:
Schroders provided a discretionary service and Mr K didnt usually give instructions on 
the account. He says his portfolio wasnt being monitored or reviewed after his advisor 
left. Schroders apologised that Mr K didnt receive a review after January 2021 until 
September 2022 because his new advisor, who has also subsequently left, only tried to 
contact him once. And Schroders refunded its on-going advice fees and paid Mr K £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst a review should have taken place in 
January 2022, Ive not seen evidence that Mr Ks circumstances changed. The portfolio 
remained suitable for his circumstances so Im not persuaded Schroders would have 
made any changes to Mr Ks investments if a review meeting had taken place when it 
should have.
Whilst Mr Ks investments lost value, this was broadly in line with the appropriate 
benchmark index. And Mr K was invested for the long term. So I dont think its 
unreasonable that Schroders didnt make any changes to his portfolio in response to 
market movements. The investments remained suitable, and Schroders were confident 
they would still perform over the longer term.
Mr K didnt encash his investments when he received his statement in July, and he 
hasnt encashed them since. Whilst Ive not seen a recent valuation, it looks as though 
the value of Mr Ks investments has partly recovered and, if he was worried about 
making losses, I would have expected him to have given instructions to sell his 
investments as and when they started to recover in value. He hasnt done that.
If Mr K had received his March 2022 statement on time, I accept he may have been 
concerned about the loss in value of his investments. If that was the case I think, in all 
likelihood, that he would have contacted Schroders to discuss his concerns. And, because of the long-term objective of the investments and because Schroders 
recommended continuing to hold the investments, it wouldnt have recommended any 
changes, and would have advised against encashment. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr K would have followed that advice. Hed seen his 
investments rise in value and I think it unlikely that he wouldve wanted to crystalise any 
losses.
I can see that during the most recent review meeting, in June 2023, investment 
performance and market movements were discussed. The report says:
..[Schroders adviser] explained why it was important to take a longer-term view and 
explained his thoughts in relation to the history of the markets/interest rates and how the 
markets have always bounced back in the longer term and the consequences of taking 
money out of the market with no plans to spend and allowing your capital to depreciate in 
the longer term. Therefore, you decided that you would remain invested due to these 
reasons and the fact that you already had surplus cash that you had no plans to spend 
and enough income to cover your current expenditure.
Having received explanation and reassurance of long-term investment performance, 
Mr K decided to remain invested. Had this discussion taken place earlier in response to a 
timely receipt of the March 2022 statement, I think it more likely than not that Mr K would 
have come to the same decision.
So, whilst Schroders should have provided the March 2022 statement earlier than it did, 
I dont find the delay in receiving the statement has caused Mr K a financial loss because, in 
all likelihood, I dont think he would have acted any differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman