DRN-3696672
The complaint
Mr W complains about the valuation Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
motorbike following a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident and his bike was declared to be a total loss. Markerstudy 
said it couldnt easily value the bike due to its age. It said it found a similar bike advertised 
online for £700 and so it offered Mr W this amount in settlement of his claim. But Mr W said 
his bike was worth closer to £12,000.  
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt see that the 
online example that Markerstudy had found was the same as Mr Ws bike. Mr W had 
provided a valuation based on its parts. The Investigator thought this was more 
comprehensive than Markerstudys approach. 
Markerstudy provided further detailed comments from its engineers to justify its valuation. 
But the Investigator thought these didnt resolve Mr Ws concerns about how the valuation 
had been reached. And so he thought Markerstudy should arrange for a qualified and 
independent engineer to provide a bespoke valuation of the bike and to settle the claim on 
this basis.
Mr W accepted this and provided examples of similar bikes advertised for higher prices. He 
emphasised that his bike had been modified further than these examples. Markerstudy 
replied that Mr W hadnt provided a bespoke valuation when he took out his policy. It said 
the policy provided for the bikes market value which its engineers had assessed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated that it is taking so long to settle his claim. Mr W 
thought he had insured his bike for an agreed value, £12,000. But I can see that he didnt 
provide the required photographs and documents to validate this. And so the policys terms 
and conditions provide for the bikes market value at the time of its loss. Markerstudy thought 
that due to the bikes lack of a current MOT and its condition, it was worth £700.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
In Mr W case, his bike is too old and too rare for the guides to provide valuations. So I think 
it was reasonable for Markerstudy to then rely on engineers assessments of its value to 
settle Mr Ws claim. 
The engineers assessments provided by Markerstudy are based on reviews of photographs 
of the bike taken after the incident and on its online research of the sale of similar bikes. But 
Im not satisfied that this has provided a fair or reasonable valuation for Mr Ws bike. 
This is because, firstly, the engineers have stated that the bike was unroadworthy and 
without an MOT. But the engineers arent decided about whether or not the bike was exempt 
from MOT, as Mr W claims, because of its age and modifications. 
Also, Markerstudy provided further examples of similar bikes in what it said was better 
condition sold for higher prices. I note that there is a range of prices on the advertisements 
and that one unroadworthy bike is advertised for sale at a higher price than its offer to Mr W. 
Mr B has also provided examples of similar bikes advertised for sale at higher prices. And he 
maintains that his bike is worth more because of its substantial modifications.
Markerstudy has lately said that Mr W hadnt disclosed the modifications made to his bike 
and this was a sufficient reason for it to decline his claim. But I dont think this is fair or 
reasonable as I can see from its own file notes that Markerstudys underwriters confirmed 
that the modifications had been disclosed to Mr Ws broker and it then agreed for the claim 
to proceed. 
Similarly, Markerstudy said the bike was unroadworthy because its engineers thought the 
modifications wouldnt meet current MOT requirements. But, as Ive said above, the 
requirement for an MOT hasnt been decided. So I cant say that its fair for Markerstudy to 
consider this as a reason to reduce the bikes value. 
So I think there are concerns about the bikes condition, its modifications, its roadworthiness 
and the range of advertised prices for similar bikes. And so I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Markerstudy to obtain a bespoke valuation of the bike from a physical 
inspection made by a qualified and independent engineer and to settle the claim on this 
basis.
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to obtain a bespoke valuation of Mr Ws 
bike from a physical inspection made by a qualified and independent engineer and to settle 
the claim on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman