DRN-2882611
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the length of time taken by Clydesdale Bank Plc to 
process an application for a product switch and a further advance. To settle the matter, they 
would like Clydesdale to compensate them for financial loss, distress and inconvenience. 
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr H.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Thats because the investigator set out the timeline of events in detail in his 
correspondence to the parties. In addition, because our decisions are published, its 
important that I dont include anything in this decision that might identify Mr and Mrs H. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current position and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. 
Briefly, in August 2018 Mr and Mrs H wanted to switch their mortgage onto a new product, 
as their old one was due to expire on 30 November 2018. They also wanted to borrow 
£165,000 for home improvements.
The application didnt go as smoothly or as quickly as Mr H anticipated, and so it wasnt until 
19 December 2019 that the new mortgage was ready for completion. At Mr and Mrs Hs 
request, completion was postponed until early January 2019.
Mr H complained and Clydesdale acknowledged that the application had taken longer than it 
should have. But the bank didnt think this was entirely its responsibility. In its final response 
letter dated 5 April 2019 Clydesdale agreed to pay compensation of £800.67, made up as 
follows:
Refund of two years private banking fees £600.00
Net interest (less 20% tax) £  50.67
Compensation for distress and inconvenience £150.00
Total £800.67.
Dissatisfied with the banks response, Mr and Mrs H complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mr H said that a product switch can be taken out three months before 
the old one expires, and so the application could have completed on 1 September 2018. 
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted Clydesdale had increased its offer to 
reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage had reverted to Standard Variable Rate (SVR) 
on 1 December 2018. Clydesdale had refunded interest of £467.47 for the period 
1 December 2018 and 3 January 2019 (when the new mortgage completed). Clydesdale 
also agreed a goodwill refund of interest on the new mortgage of £17.09 for interest charged 
on 2 January 2019 after Mr H had queried the date the funds were available. This was in 
addition to the compensation of £800.67 already offered. 
Mr H also said that, if the funds had arrived on time, hed have used savings to pay down 
£165,000 on mortgages he had on other properties and saved the Clydesdale funds to pay 
for home improvement works. Mr H explained it was important for him to have had the funds 
on 1 September 2018, because he could then release his savings to pay off down his other 
mortgages. Mr H didnt think it was reasonable for him to have used his savings to do this 
before the further advance was agreed, as it would have left him without savings; if the 
further advance had then fallen through, hed have had no money for his home 
improvements. 
The investigator thought the offer made by Clydesdale was fair in the circumstances. He 
wasnt persuaded, given that the application hadnt begun until 17 August 2018, that it could 
have completed by 1 September 2018. He also thought the decision to postpone paying 
down the other mortgages was Mr Hs choice, and wasnt something for which Clydesdale 
could be held responsible.
Mr H still didnt think Clydesdales offer was sufficient to compensate him and Mrs H for their 
losses. Mr H was also unhappy that the bank still hadnt paid him and Mrs H the £150 it had 
offered (and which they had rejected) and thought that, as a result, interest should be paid 
on this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I am sorry to note Mr H has had some recent health problems and I hope he has now 
recovered.
Because Clydesdale has accepted it made errors in the application, its not necessary for me 
to analyse what happened in detail. As I said above, the correspondence between the 
parties and the investigator sets out what happened. All I need to decide is what is fair 
compensation for the mistakes Clydesdale acknowledges it has made.
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs argument that, making the application on 17 August 2018 would 
have meant it could have completed on 1 September 2018 (9 working days, taking into 
account the August Bank Holiday). This is because, in addition to the product switch, Mr and 
Mrs H were borrowing an additional £165,000 for home improvements, and so it was 
necessary for the bank to underwrite the application.
I can see from the timeline that this took longer than it should have done, partly due to the 
need for Mr and Mrs H to provide further information, and partly due to poor service from 
Clydesdale (which the bank has acknowledged). I can see from the emails that Clydesdale, 
in an attempt to be helpful, was giving Mr and Mrs H an unrealistic expectation of the 
timescale. I think the bank should have been more transparent that it had made mistakes at 
the outset. But overall, I disagree that the application could have completed by 1 September 
2018, given the need for underwriting and for Mr and Mrs H to provide the bank with further 
information.I think Clydesdales offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. The refund of private 
banking fees is over and above what I would expect Clydesdale to do. Im satisfied the offer 
also takes into account the actual cost of the delay. 
Clydesdale isnt required to pay interest on the £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience from the date it was offered (as Mr H says it should). The £150 wasnt 
accepted by Mr and Mrs H and so isnt payable by the bank unless this decision is accepted 
by Mr and Mrs H.
Ive noted what Mr H has said about paying down his other mortgages. I appreciate he didnt 
want to use his savings for this until he knew the further advance had been approved. But I 
agree with the investigator that Mr H had the choice on how to use his savings. Given this, 
its not fair or reasonable to hold Clydesdale liable for the consequences of Mr Hs decisions 
in relation to how he used (or didnt use) his savings.
In the circumstances, Im not going to ask Clydesdale to pay any further compensation. Im 
satisfied that the offer  set out below  is fair and reasonable. It is proportionate to the 
banks service failures and compensates the reasonably foreseeable losses arising from 
those failures. 
Mr H is also unhappy about the way Clydesdale has dealt with his complaint. Thats not 
something I can consider here, because complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and so 
isnt covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
After taking everything into account, Im satisfied Clydesdales offer of compensation is fair. 
This is made up as follows:
Refund of two years private banking fees £   600.00
Net interest £     50.67
Refund of mortgage interest £   467.47
Refund of goodwill interest £     17.09
Compensation for distress and inconvenience £   150.00
Total: £1,285.23
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the offer of 
compensation made by Clydesdale Bank Plc is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to 
Mr and Mrs H to decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman