DRN-1233798
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to return all 
their title deeds to their solicitor in 2012 when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out this mortgage with RBS in 2001, and in February 2012 it was fully 
repaid. Mr F phoned RBS on 28 February 2012 to request the deeds be sent to his solicitor.
According to the correspondence that weve been provided, it seems RBS liaised with the 
solicitor, signed the discharge paperwork, and it sent it all to the solicitor in March 2012.
Nothing further happened until Mr and Mrs F wanted to arrange an equity release mortgage 
in 2019. They were using a different firm of solicitors for that and it was discovered the RBS 
charge hadnt been released. The original solicitor also couldnt find the deeds to Mr and Mrs 
Fs property, they could only find the deeds for a plot of land next door that Mr and Mrs F 
had bought separately from their neighbour.
Mr and Mrs F complained to the original solicitor and to RBS. All this decision is dealing with 
is RBS, as we dont have jurisdiction over the solicitor.
Our investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
I trust Mr and Mrs F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
For almost 80 years after the passing into law of the Law of Property Act 1925 and the 
Land Registration Act 1925, conveyancing was done on paper with processes and 
practices that were the same for decades. Property titles were registered in documents 
which were held by the owners or mortgagees. But since 2003 scanning and subsequent 
destruction (known as dematerialisation) of physical documents became the required 
practice, as a result of the Land Registration Act 2002, which came into force on 13 October 
2003. Rule 203(6), Land Registration Rules 2003, makes provision for the destruction of original 
documents; an electronic image is deemed a sufficient copy and is used to produce official 
copies. This means that paper documents are obsolete and are no longer evidence of title.
Given the passage of time, its not possible to say with certainty what happened to the paper 
documents. But what we do know is that they  or at least some of them  were sent to Mr 
and Mrs Fs solicitor in 2012 at their request.
Its clear that at least some of the original deeds were sent to Mr and Mrs Fs solicitor. There 
would have been absolutely no reason for RBS to have gone to the trouble of splitting up the 
paperwork and only sending part of the deeds out to the solicitor, instead it would most likely 
have sent all or nothing. When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs F are the 
ones bringing the complaint against RBS, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Fs version 
needs to be more likely than RBS version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I 
cant say Mr and Mrs Fs version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for 
me to uphold their complaint.
Im satisfied - on the balance of probabilities - that in 2012 RBS sent all the deeds it held out 
to Mr and Mrs Fs solicitor at their request, so RBS doesnt have any paper deeds and other 
documents Mr and Mrs F asked for. I cant reasonably require RBS to provide documents 
that it doesnt have, nor can I award compensation to Mr and Mrs F for it not having those 
documents. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman