DRN-3763534
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC applied charges in error, provided 
poor customer service and closed its account without justification.
What happened
The director of T says that there was an agreement that charges on the account would be 
waived. Instead T was charged and even that wasnt in line with the tariff. A processing error 
meant that a payment had been taken twice and Metro Bank said T would need to contact 
the merchant which he wasnt happy with. And the director describes an incident in a branch 
on 25 July 2022 when he raised this. He said he was asked to pronounce his name and said 
that this was racist and bullying behaviour. Metro Bank sent a notice of closure of the 
account dated that day which he thought arbitrary. And the director had a pointless meeting 
with a local director three days later when nothing was addressed.
Metro Bank said it hadnt made any mistake. It had no record of agreeing to waive charges 
and said that these were applied correctly. It said that a card payment of £57.71 had been 
processed correctly too and so if T wanted to query this it should be raised with the 
merchant. Metro Bank said it took complaints about racism and bullying very seriously and 
referred to its policies to value diversity and treat customers fairly. It said to the director that 
it was not able to support your claim but it was very sorry for any upset caused. It had 
decided to provide notice to close the account on that day and said it hadnt acted 
unreasonably. Metro Bank understood the subsequent meeting with a local director was at 
Ts request and there was no detailed record of this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he hadnt seen 
evidence of any agreement to waive fees and nor that the charges had been incorrect. Metro 
Bank was entitled to close the account and had given 60 days notice. The branch 
interactions hadnt been recorded. He couldnt fairly conclude that T had been affected by 
discrimination.
The director of T didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. He said that wed 
treated the complaint with disdain too. The fact that thered been a four-hour meeting when 
the account was opened had been ignored and wed simply not looked for evidence. T had 
been refunded £12.30 of charges which hadnt been explained. It was arbitrary to close the 
account whether that was with 60 minutes or 60 months notice and this was because of the 
complaint. The referral to the merchant was unreasonable and a member of staff had 
admitted the error. The director said hed been treated with racist contempt and had been 
dragged into a fruitless meeting and so had been caused further detriment. T hadnt had the 
closing balance from the account and was still receiving messages about the app.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely 
based on the evidence available. And this service isnt a Court so I wouldnt be in a position 
for example to make a legal finding say on whether the Equality Act 2010 had been 
breached. But I can take into account relevant legislation in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable. The complainant here is T, a separate legal entity, but the director represents it 
and I need to think about if his interactions with Metro Bank impacted upon T. 
Through the investigator I asked Metro Bank for the customer notes for T, the notes and 
details regarding its investigation into the complaint and the account opening records. 
I dont have reason to doubt that the account opening discussion for T in June 2021 was a 
long meeting. My understanding is that T switched its current account from a different 
financial business. And that it had a current account with Metro Bank before until 2018. 
Based on what Ive seen there is no record of any agreement to waive fees. Ive seen a note 
from a local business manager who remembers speaking to the director then and says that 
no such offer was made. Thats clearly not the directors recollection and I cant know exactly 
what T was told and whether for example thered been a misunderstanding. But I dont have 
sufficient evidence to find on balance a mistake has been made.
Ive seen a copy of the tariff structure for the account. Initially there was no account 
maintenance fee due if the balance on the account in any month remained at least at 
£5,000. I note that the account balance was lower than that for T in July 2021 leading to a 
charge. That minimum balance required to avoid the fee was raised to £6,000. Metro Bank 
says T told it that it hadnt been informed about all the changes. And so, account fees of 
£12.30 applied in November 2021 were refunded on 10 December 2021. I note for example 
that after that the account balance was below £4,000 at the end of December meaning T 
was again liable for a fee.
The payment that T disputed of £57.71 was applied to the account in May 2022. T says that 
it believed that this payment had been declined. And so, it arranged to pay the merchant in a 
different way. It found out that the payment from Metro Bank had gone through and so 
wanted this duplicate to be refunded. Metro Bank has provided a note from its payments 
team stating that there had been no error with the payment it processed. And that resulted in 
T being told to take this up with the merchant if it had given T the wrong information.
The director of T explains that a person he spoke to when he was in branch on 25 July 2022 
had acknowledged that Metro Banks systems were poor. And then that there was no error 
on Ts account which the director couldnt understand. He says of the interaction about his 
name:
The bank further failed to address the point of racist bully by the bank asking me to say
my name  I responded with it there in front of you, read it. His supervisor was
standing over his shoulder, the lady said: he asked you to say it because if he didnt
youd accuse him of saying it wrongly. This statement illustrates the racist attitude of
the bank staff  an issue that was not addressed by the complaints officer.
No CCTV of this incident is available as part of the investigation. There doesnt seem to be 
any dispute over what was said but theres the issue of how it was said about which I cant 
make any fair finding. Metro Bank doesnt accept the allegation but has apologised for any 
upset caused. I dont doubt that this exchange and how the director clearly felt contributed to 
a deterioration in that discussion and came when he was also being told that nothing could 
be done about the payment. T was also unhappy with the later discussion with a local 
director and neither it nor Metro Bank consider that this was productive.
I dont have significant further information about the account closure and can see that notice 
of 60 days was given dated that day.Conclusion
T wants as an outcome to this complaint the account to be reinstated and a refund of the 
payment of £57.71 and of the fees charged incorrectly.
Im afraid that its a matter for the commercial discretion of Metro Bank to decide who it 
offers an account to. And thats irrespective really of whether or not a decision to close an 
account seems as T says arbitrary and related to its complaint. I dont think its breached its 
terms and conditions and it did give T the anticipated notice period. It doesnt have to give a 
reason for closure, and it wouldnt fairly need to compensate T for the inconvenience of 
finding another account. And so, I dont have a basis to require it to reinstate the account 
and I can understand that it would be an irritation for the director to receive any marketing 
information after the closure.
Ive set out what I think about the payment and charges and I dont think that there was an 
error. And Ive also now been informed by Metro Bank that the payment of the remaining 
account balance was made to T on 8 November 2022. As I understand it our investigator 
has already told T any concerns about the delay in that payment being made isnt part of this 
complaint and that is the position.
Im satisfied that Metro Bank has taken the aspect of the complaint about how its staff dealt 
and spoke with T seriously and dealt with it in line with its policies and I wont be asking it to 
do anything more. 
I know the director of T will remain unhappy when I say that for the reasons Ive given I wont 
be requiring Metro Bank to take any action. If T doesnt accept my decision it remains free to 
pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman