DRN-4370080
The complaint
Mr K complained that his redemption statement, received from Pepper (UK) Limited trading 
as Engage Credit, kept changing. He said Engage wanted him to pay off almost £3,000 in 
arrears, but Mr K said hed cleared the arrears in 2018, and hed kept the letter to prove it.
What happened
Mr K received a redemption statement from Engage, dated 8 November 2022. That 
statement said Mr K owed a little over £32,000 in total. But it broke this down into a little over 
£29,000 for the current mortgage balance, a little under £3,000 for Arrears, Arrears interest, 
Fees and Charges and just under £50 in fees for redeeming the mortgage. 
Mr K has historically had arrears on his mortgage, but hed been overpaying his mortgage in 
2017 and early 2018. So he said all the arrears were paid off in 2018. And he said he didnt 
know anything about any outstanding fees. He sent us a letter dated April 2018, which said 
his mortgage balance was then £47,352.11, but his arrears balance was £0.00.
In late November 2022, Mr K paid a bit over £29,000 to his mortgage. It looks as if Mr K had 
intended to pay the items on his redemption statement which were listed as Current 
Balance and Deeds Fee and Mortgage Exit Administration Fee but not the item listed as 
Arrears, Arrears interest, Fees and Charges. 
Engage applied this payment against Mr Ks mortgage, but said he still owed around £3,000. 
Mr K said he hadnt received anything explaining the charges. He complained to our service. 
Engage says that the item listed as Arrears, Arrears interest, Fees and Charges isnt made 
up of actual arrears. It says this is made up of charges that were applied to Mr Ks mortgage 
while he was in arrears. It thinks one of these charges, in August 2017, should be removed, 
because Mr K had made a payment that month. But it thinks the rest of the fees were 
properly charged. Engage sent our service a complaint Mr K had made to our service in 
2012 about fees on his mortgage which were charged while he was in arrears. And it sent us 
statements dating back to 2010, detailing fees charged, which it has also shared with Mr K.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he had explained he 
could only look at issues arising in the six years prior to this complaint, so he wouldnt 
consider anything that happened before November 2016. And our investigator said after this, 
he could see that Mr K had received annual statements and letters which showed the 
outstanding balance and arrears on his mortgage. Our investigator said the letter Mr K had 
sent, showing a zero balance for his arrears in April 2018, was only evidence that Mr K 
hadnt accrued any arrears in the three months that letter covered, it wasnt evidence that all 
the arrears were paid off. 
Our investigator said he hadnt seen anything to show Mr K didnt owe everything set out on 
the redemption statement. He thought that Engages offer to refund £55 of fees was fair.
Mr K replied to say he didnt understand. He said that he was in arrears before early 2018, 
and had been paying an extra £100 per month to clear those arrears and charges. He said 
after that, there were no further charges added to his account. So he said that was his point 
 where had these arrears, showing on his redemption statement now, come from?
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He still thought the letter with the zero arrears 
balance only referred to arrears accrued in the period between February and April 2018. He 
said fees and charges were applied at different times before that statement.
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I do think theres been some confusion here, because it looks like when our investigator said 
Mr K hadnt accrued arrears between February and April 2018, he was referring to arrears 
fees and charges, not arrears themselves. Ill try to set this out clearly for Mr K.
Firstly, I can see Mr K had arrears on his mortgage, before 2018. And I can see, as he said, 
he was making a regular overpayment, to clear these arrears. Hes shown us letters where 
this arrears balance is reducing, until April 2018, when the arrears balance shows as zero. 
So I do think Mr K had paid off all the actual arrears on his mortgage by April 2018. But, 
importantly, I dont think that means Engage is wrong about how much he owes now. 
When Engage sent the redemption statement, it said that £3,000 of what Mr K owed then, 
was made up of Arrears, Arrears interest, Fees and Charges. And when Mr K complained, 
it clarified that none of the money in this figure was actual arrears. Its said all of this amount 
of just under £3,000 listed on his redemption statement, is made up of fees and charges that 
Mr K incurred while he was in arrears.
Engage has looked back at the recent arrears fees, and it thinks one of those fees wasnt 
properly charged, so it will refund that. But it says Mr K does owe the rest. 
It looks like Mr K believed that in 2018 hed paid off all the arrears AND all the fees and 
charges that his mortgage lender applied because of those arrears. But he hadnt. Hed just 
paid off all the arrears, not the associated fees and charges. 
In 2018, Mr Ks mortgage was looked after by a different lender, and that lender didnt 
provide a separate total for fees and charges. They were just added into the total amount 
Mr K owed on his mortgage. So when Mr K brought his separate arrears total to zero, that 
doesnt mean hed paid off all the associated fees too.
The letter Mr K sent us, from April 2018, said he didnt owe any arrears, but he did still owe 
£47,352.11 on his mortgage. So Ive looked at Mr Ks annual statements since then, to see if 
what Engage asked him to pay, in his redemption statement, is consistent with those 
statements. I can see the following reductions, year on year, in the overall amount Mr K owed on his 
mortgage - 
April 2018 arrears letter - mortgage balance £47,352.11,
31 Jan 2019 statement  mortgage balance £45,297.71
31 Jan 2020 statement  mortgage balance £42,157.73
31 Jan 2021 statement  mortgage balance £38,732.83
31 Jan 2022 statement  mortgage balance £35,108.62
The redemption statement Mr K sent us, from November 2022, had a total of £32,243.20 to 
redeem the mortgage. 
I think that all Engage has done now, is to account for Mr Ks mortgage balance differently. 
So, unlike Mr Ks previous lender, Engage is pointing out how much of that overall balance is 
made up of fees he was charged some time ago. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable, 
and Ive not seen anything to make me think that Engage has made a mistake about how 
much Mr K owes now. 
And importantly, I think this final total, which Engage gave to Mr K on his redemption 
statement in November 2022, is in keeping with the overall history of Mr Ks mortgage 
balance, dating right back to the mortgage balance set out on the April 2018 letter which told 
Mr K his arrears were cleared. 
Engage has said it will remove from Mr Ks account, one amount of fees, which it thinks 
wasnt properly charged. I dont think Engage has to do more than that, to resolve this 
complaint. And for that reason, I dont think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman