DRN-2783884
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim he made for damage 
to his furniture.
 What happened
In March 2019 Mr W purchased a dining table and six chairs from a retailer that Ill refer to 
here as F. He also purchased a furniture protection plan, which provided cover for 
individual incidents or accidental staining and/or accidental damage and/or structural 
damage. This insurance policy was underwritten by Amtrust.
On 1 October 2020 Mr W noticed his dining table had a stain. He said this had been caused 
by fruit staining the surface of the table. Mr W said the stain was noticeable. So, he informed 
Amtrust that he wanted to make a claim under his policy.
Amtrust appointed a technician to inspect the damage Mr W had reported in order to assist it 
in dealing with his claim. As replacement parts couldnt be supplied to repair the table, 
Amtrust asked the technician to undertake a repair by polishing out the stain. 
On 26 October Amtrusts appointed technician inspected Mr Ws dining table. After doing so, 
they said they couldnt restore the table to its original condition or repair it in a way that made 
the stain invisible.  
Based on the technicians comments, Amtrust looked to replace Mr Ws dining table. F 
informed Amtrust that the model Mr W had purchased in March 2019 was still available. So, 
Amtrust offered Mr W a new dining table of the same model and specification.
Amtrust also offered Mr W an alternative way of resolving his claim. It offered him a cash 
settlement of £875, which it said was the cost it would incur if it was to purchase the table 
from F. And it said that if Mr W selected this option he could retain the original dining table.
Mr W didnt want Amtrust to replace his damaged table and he disagreed with the settlement 
figure it had proposed. He felt it hadnt assessed his furniture claim fairly and said hed 
purchased a high-quality table, which had cost him over £2000. He didnt believe that 
Amtrust could source a replacement for £875 and he also said he wasnt happy with the 
quality of the repair the technician had undertaken. He therefore complained. 
On 20 January 2021 Amtrust issued its final response to Mr Ws complaint. Within that 
response it stated that it thought its settlement offer was fair and it wasnt prepared to 
change it. So, it didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Being dissatisfied with how Amtrust intended to resolve his claim Mr W referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they thought Amtrust had acted fairly and they 
were persuaded that it was able to purchase the table Mr W had bought from F for £875. So, 
they didnt think Amtrust needed to take any further action. But Mr W disagreed with our 
investigators view of his complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Amtrust made a mistake, or treated Mr W unfairly, in 
how it decided to settle his claim. In thinking about this Ive thought about whether Amtrusts 
offer to settle Mr Ws claim was fair and reasonable and in line with the insurance policy he 
holds.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr W and Amtrust for 
the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided and, I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr W or Amtrust have 
made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the 
key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mr Ws policy with Amtrust covers the furniture he purchased from F for individual incidents 
or accidental staining and/or accidental damage and/or structural damage. In this case 
Amtrust attributed the fault to be due to accidental staining. So, it was satisfied Mr W had a 
valid claim under his policy.
Where a repair cannot be undertaken, the terms of Mr Ws policy permit Amtrust to provide 
an identical replacement of the damaged item of furniture. In the alternative, Amtrust is 
entitled to offer a policyholder an amount of money as a cash settlement if a policyholder 
wishes to keep the item of furniture instead of replacing it. The policy terms state that this 
sum is limited to the equivalent cost of a repair or replacement.
In this case, Amtrust wasnt able to undertake a repair that rendered the stain invisible and it 
wasnt able to replace the damaged part. It therefore offered Mr W a replacement matching 
the table that had been damaged.  
Had Mr W accepted the replacement dining table he was offered, Amtrust would have met 
its obligation to him under this policy. However, Mr W didnt want a replacement table. 
Instead, he wanted Amtrust to cash settle his claim. 
Amtrust could have declined to cash settle Mr Ws claim. I say this because, under the terms 
of its policy, it has discretion as to how it chooses to settle claims a policyholder makes. 
Here, it offered Mr W a cash settlement of £875. But he disputes that is fair and doesnt 
accept the table can be purchased by Amtrust for that price. Ive therefore carefully 
considered whether the cash settlement sum Amtrust offered Mr W was fair.
Like our investigator, Ive listened to the call recording Amtrust provided our service. Im 
persuaded this is reliable and cogent evidence which demonstrates that Amtrust is able to 
source an identical replacement dining table from F for £875. 
I recognise that Mr W paid over £2000 for his dining table. But this was the retail price. As 
Ive already mentioned, under the terms of Mr Ws policy, Amtrust is entitled to limit its cash 
settlement to the cost it would incur if it were to replace a damaged item. It isnt unusual for 
insurers to have arrangements with preferred suppliers that can offer it discounts. This 
means it can obtain furniture much cheaper than the cost a customer would incur if they 
bought the replacement item directly from the retailer. This explains why Mr W has been 
quoted a much higher price by F to replace his damaged table from it directly.While I appreciate that Amtrusts cash settlement offer is frustrating for Mr W, Im satisfied 
its offered to settle his claim for his damaged table in line with the terms of his insurance 
policy. And Im also satisfied that, in giving Mr W two distinct options of settling his claim, 
Amtrust was acting fairly. I therefore cant say its done anything wrong in the approach its 
taken here. 
I realise Mr W will be disappointed with this decision. But Im persuaded overall that Amtrust 
has dealt with this furniture claim fairly. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.  
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman