DRN-2236861
The complaint
Mr K complains Vanquis Bank Limited continually increased his credit limit. He says it did so 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K applied for a Vanquis credit card in 2014. He was given a credit limit of £500. This 
increased on three occasions, reaching a limit of £2,500 in November 2016. Recently, Mr K 
complained that these increases shouldnt have been offered to him. He says he had a lot of 
other debt including a number of payday loans in the background. And he says Vanquis 
shouldnt have increased his credit limit.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but he thought Vanquis hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr K disagreed saying the credit limit increases were unaffordable. He 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed. So its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When offering a credit limit increase, a lender must carry out checks which are reasonable 
and proportionate to the amount being lent. Mr Ks credit limit was increased on three 
occasions over a period of more than two years. During that time, Mr K typically made his 
payment on time, and regularly made more than his minimum payment. And he never 
exceeded his limit. Based on this alone, I dont think Vanquis wouldve had reason to think 
the increases were unaffordable to him. But Ive gone on to consider the other factors and 
circumstances at the time.
Mr K says that Vanquis should have been aware his credit limit increases werent affordable 
because of information on his credit file that showed he was borrowing from payday lenders. 
And that his credit elsewhere was increasing. Vanquis has shown us that it did carry out its 
usual checks before offering the credit limit increases and took all of these factors into 
consideration. Its told us what additional credit it thought Mr K had at the time of each 
increase. And this roughly ties in with the credit report Mr K has provided to us. Whilst Mr Ks 
credit balances were increasing elsewhere, I dont think it was by an amount that meant that 
the increases being offered were unaffordable. Again, Im satisfied Vanquis fairly considered 
all of this whilst applying its lending criteria before offering each credit limit increase. 
Vanquis did look for short term credit, such as payday loans, on Mr Ks credit file but didnt 
find any at the time. I appreciate Mr Ks since shown us his credit file does contain 
information about loans from short term lenders but that wasnt something Vanquis saw 
when it checked. This is because some credit reference agencies wont report everything a 
customer has. This is unfortunate, but Vanquis isnt required to check all credit reference 
agencies. Furthermore, having payday loans in itself doesnt necessarily mean a credit limit 
increase will be unsuitable. It mayve been that this might help someone get out of the cycle 
of payday loans.
Each time Vanquis intended to increase Mr Ks limit, it wrote to him to confirm its intentions 
and gave him the opportunity to decline the increases, which he didnt. There was no 
obligation for Mr K to accept the credit limits if he didnt want to. So, I think its likely he 
thought the increases would be useful.
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis did the checks it was required to each time Mr K was 
offered a credit limit increase. And given that Mr K was able to maintain his payments, and 
has since cleared the balance, I cant find that the borrowing was unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman