DRN-4024287
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Niche) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H approached Niche in August 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr H 
said he understood that he could access his pension benefits from age 55, so he requested 
an early retirement quote from his DB scheme and wanted advice on his options.
Niche completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr H was divorced; he was on sick leave 
and due to return to work in September 2018; he rented his home with his partner; and his 
objectives were to access a cash lump sum to repay some debts, gift some money to his son 
and go on holiday. Niche also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be cautious. 
On 14 August 2018 Niche advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in both a cash and a cautious investment fund. In 
summary, the suitability report said the reason for this recommendation was that Mr H 
couldnt achieve his objectives without transferring his pension.
Mr Hs pension transfer duly took place and around £34,800 was transferred to his new 
personal pension arrangement from which Mr H took around £8,700 as a tax-free cash lump 
sum and a one-off £10,000 income payment. 
In 2022 Mr H complained to Niche, via a representative, about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. In summary, Mr H said that the advice failed to challenge or adequately explain that 
the value of an immediate lump sum payment, whilst appearing attractive, may actually be of 
less value than a guaranteed future income stream. 
Niche didnt respond to Mr Hs complaint, but it provided its business file (presumably 
rejecting Mr Hs complaint) when he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and they upheld Mr Hs complaint and required Niche to 
pay compensation.
 
In summary they said the transfer wasnt financially viable because of the growth rate 
required to match Mr Hs DB scheme benefits and there was no other compelling reason to 
justify a transfer in the circumstances. They said Mr H had no real need for a cash-lump sum 
 his objectives of wanting a holiday and gifting money to his son werent priorities. And 
while Mr H wanted to repay some debt, Niche didnt explore the alternative available to Mr H 
to raise the money. They also didnt think different death benefits available through a 
personal pension outweighed Mr Hs need for security in retirement. 
Niche didnt respond to the investigators assessment  so because it is assumed that it 
disagrees with their findings, the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Niche carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr H was 55 at the time of the advice and it was recorded that he intended to keep working 
and retire at 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 65 was 14.46% if 
he took a full pension and 12.37% if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here the lowest critical 
yield was 12.37%. While Niche did not express an opinion as to the likelihood of Mr Hs 
pension achieving the required critical yield, I think given the required return Mr H was likely 
to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, 
as a result of investing in line with a cautious attitude to risk. 
The return required was far in excess of the discount rate and significantly higher than the 
regulators upper projection rate. In my view, even to have come close to achieving this kind 
of return wouldve required Mr H to take significant risk with his pension benefits  but this 
was way outside the risk appetite Mr H said he was prepared to take. I also think Mr Hs 
capacity for loss was low  he didnt have significant other assets to fall back on and his 
overall private pension provision was really only made up of this and one other small DB 
scheme.
I can see that Niche produced cashflow models to show how Mr H couldnt meet his 
retirement objectives by remaining in his DB scheme  but these appear to be based solely 
on the basis that Mr H could raise a sufficient cash lump sum to meet his short-term 
objective by transferring. It does not appear to be based on Mr H drawing an ongoing 
pension income from the transferred pension. 
For this reason alone, it is my view that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs 
best interests. But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits  something it appears Niche believes is the case 
here given the positive recommendation to transfer. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash
Mr Hs objectives were based around him accessing a lump sum from his pension to enable 
him to repay some debt, gift money to his son and go on holiday. And I have no doubt that 
having turned 55, Mr H thought it was a good idea to use his pension monies to achieve things. But Niche wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted or 
seemed like a good idea. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests. Im not persuaded Niche did that.
Niche recorded that Mr H wanted to clear some debt, including overdue rent which would 
cost him £3,500. But Niche did not interrogate this further to understand what this debt 
comprised of  for example how much was due to overdue rent, how much related to other 
debt and what the terms of the repayment were, including the term and the monthly 
repayment commitment. Without understanding this, I dont think Niche was in a position to 
say that it was in Mr Hs best interests to access his pension benefits before his normal 
retirement age and use the money to repay this debt. 
I can see that Mr H was currently signed off sick from work and was due back in September 
2018. So it seems entirely possible that Mr Hs financial position had solely arisen from the 
fact that he was on sick leave, perhaps on a reduced income, and that once he returned to 
work the position would quickly improve and he could make good his overdue rent. Niche 
recorded that Mr Hs income was supplemented by overtime / working more hours. In the 
suitability report it said that, while being off work Mr H was finding the inactivity difficult as he 
was used to living an active lifestyle including working overtime very regularly  so it seems 
this option was likely available to Mr H to improve things.
Im also mindful that, in advising Mr H he should maintain an emergency fund of at least 
three months income, Niche recorded that he planned to do this as soon as possible. So it 
appears to me that Mr H might have had the capacity to save excess income (when he 
returned to work) which in my view would also mean that his debts were likely manageable 
or could be with better budgeting for example  things I think it was reasonable for Niche to 
have explored / grasped. Furthermore I can see that Mr H was co-habiting with his partner. 
But nothing was recorded about the extent to which they was contributing to the household 
budget and able to help with Mr Hs financial position. I think this was also something Niche 
ought to have explored and recorded.
Notwithstanding the above, if some of Mr Hs debt he related to a loan or a credit card, then I 
wouldve expected Niche to have explored this in more detail and discussed the alternatives 
for repayment with Mr H. For example, advising Mr H to firstly talk to his lender about things, 
consider a payment holiday, and/or if necessary discuss the possibility of restructuring the 
debt, which might have made things more affordable. I dont think it was the right thing for 
Niche to have seemingly defaulted to recommending Mr H access his guaranteed DB 
scheme benefits to pay off his debts when its not clear that he really needed to at this time.
Mr H also wanted some money to gift to his son  around £2,000  have some surplus cash 
to visit his son and spend around £4,000 on a holiday. In my view none of these objectives 
can reasonably be described as pressing or priority needs to justify Mr H accessing his DB 
scheme pension benefits early by transferring out. Niche recorded that Mr Hs son was 
financially independent, so it doesnt appear the gift was necessary. And in my view a 
holiday, is a nice to have  it is not essential. So I dont think these things justified a transfer 
and outweighed the likely fall in Mr Hs overall retirement benefits as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme.
In my view all of Mr Hs objectives recorded by Niche were short term pre-retirement 
objectives that did not justify Mr H relinquishing a guaranteed and escalating pension in 
retirement for. And an income that along with his other pension provision, including his state 
pension, wouldve likely met his retirement income needs. Overall I dont think Niches 
advice was suitable in the circumstances and I dont think it acted in Mr Hs best interests.  
Death benefitsWhile as I indicated above, it appears Niches advice was predominantly based on Mr H 
wanting access to a cash lump sum, the suitability report also referred to Mr Hs feelings 
that, an added benefit of the transfer to a personal pension arrangement was the flexibility of 
the death benefits - Mr H could nominate his son for example to receive any remaining 
pension upon his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning tool. And I dont think 
Niche properly explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher or different death benefits.
I accept that Mr H was divorced, so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme was 
likely not of interest to him. That said, Mr H had a partner and its possible that he might 
marry again in the future. In which case this benefit would become useful. In any event, I 
dont think Niche shouldve encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for different death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, access to a higher tax-free lump sum and the potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr H. But as I explained earlier on, Niches role wasnt simply to 
facilitate what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower overall retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think Mr H shouldve been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme to repay debts that Niche didnt establish the details of or 
understand whether they really were unaffordable, or to use funds for purposes which could 
not reasonably be considered as necessary. And the potential for higher or different death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Niche shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Niche's 
advice if things had happened as they should have. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Niches advice. I say this because Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk, who neither possessed the requisite skill, 
knowledge nor confidence to go against the advice they were given  particularly in a 
complex pension matter. Mr Hs pension accounted for a not insignificant proportion of his 
private retirement provision - so, if Niche had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr H was wedded to his objectives such that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Niche had explained 
that Mr Hs desire for a lump sum to meet short-term objectives was not a compelling reason 
to risk his guaranteed pension for at this time, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. 
So, I dont think Mr H would have likely insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Niche to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, while Mr H withdrew the balance of his pension plan as taxable income in 2019, I 
consider this was only because he could access his funds by virtue of the unsuitable advice 
he received. Mr H actually retired in November 2022 at age 59 due to poor health. So, if 
suitable advice had been given, I think Mr H wouldve taken his DB scheme benefits at age 
59. Compensation should therefore be based on a retirement age of 59.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Niche should:
always calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Niches offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Niche may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman