DRN-4311312
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy with the way in which Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) handled a claim made under her critical illness policy (the policy) and its decision to 
decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
What happened
Ms N applied for the policy in 2020. When applying she was asked a number of questions  
including about her health and medical history. Based on all the information provided L&G 
accepted Ms Ns application and the policy commenced.
A couple of years later, Ms N made a claim on the policy as shed been diagnosed with 
cancer. That claim was ultimately declined by L&G because it concluded that Ms N hadnt 
disclosed that shed had breast cancer previously when taking out the policy. It considered 
shed made a deliberate or reckless disclosure when answering a question about whether 
shed ever had cancer when applying for the policy. It also said that if shed answered the 
question correctly, the policy would have been offered on different terms. So, it declined the 
claim, cancelled the policy and reimbursed Ms N for the monthly premiums shed paid for it.
It also offered Ms N £800 total compensation for some service failings when assessing her 
claim; it accepted that there had been some unnecessary delays for which it apologised for.  
Unhappy, Ms N complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked 
into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed so her complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case L&G) has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G says Ms N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering certain medical questions when taking out the plan. And overall, I think L&G has 
acted fairly and reasonably by declining Ms Ns claim, cancelling the policy and reimbursing 
the premiums paid for it. Ill explain why. 
Did Ms N make a qualifying misrepresentation?
Ive listened to the recording of the call Ms N had with L&Gs representatives when first 
applying for the policy. Ms N is asked a number of questions about her medical history 
including: 
Have you ever:
Had any form of cancer, Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, leukaemia or 
melanoma?
Ms N confirmed she hadnt. 
Ms N says this question is misleading. I disagree. Im satisfied that this is a clear question. 
Im also satisfied that Ms N didnt answer the question correctly because shed been 
diagnosed with cancer previously and had received treatment for it. 
When considering whether Ms N misrepresented the answer given, L&G asked her for an 
explanation for why shed answered the question in the way that she had. Its reflected that 
Ms N said shed answered all questions asked of her correctly, she was only asked about 
her health during the past five years and her understanding was, legally, L&G wasnt able to 
ask her questions relating to her health going back more than five years.  
Having considered Ms Ns responses, Im satisfied L&G has fairly and reasonably concluded 
that she made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA as the question clearly asked 
whether she ever had any form of cancer; it wasnt restricted to the last five years. So, she 
shouldve answered yes to that question. 
L&G has provided underwriting guidance showing that if Mr N answered this question 
correctly, as she should have done, it would have offered the policy on different terms. So, 
the answer to this question mattered to L&G.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Ms N has more recently said that she 
thought she was only be asked whether she ever had Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma, leukaemia or melanoma. However, thats not consistent with what she said 
previously and further, Im satisfied that she was first asked whether she had any form of 
cancer. 
Declining the claim and cancelling the policy
L&G concluded that Mr Ns misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
Taking into account Ms Ns explanations about why she answered question in the way she 
did, I dont think shes been able to give a credible explanation supported by the facts for the 
misrepresentation having occurred when considered against the medical evidence that she 
had been diagnosed and treated for cancer around seven years previously. Nor do I think 
there are any credible mitigating circumstances to explain why she answered this question in 
the way that she did. Im satisfied that L&G has fairly concluded that Ms Ns 
misrepresentation was deliberately or recklessly made.
And as the question was asked before agreeing to insure Ms N, I think she knew that the questions being asked were relevant to L&G  or didnt take sufficient care about whether or 
not it was relevant to L&G.
Ive looked at the actions L&G can take in line with CIDRA. Under the legislation its entitled 
to cancel the policy and doesnt have to pay any claims as it can treat the policy as if it never 
existed. Thats what L&G has done here, and I dont think its acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint by doing so. 
L&G could have also chosen to retain the premiums paid for the policy. It didnt do that here; 
it reimbursed Ms N for the monthly premiums shed paid for the policy since the date it 
started. I think L&G acted fairly by doing this. 
Delays
L&G has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. It accepts that there were times 
when it unreasonably delayed assessing Ms Ns claim and progressing it as quickly as it 
should have after receiving certain information. This led to Ms N having to chase L&G for 
updates and not receiving call backs as requested. It also accepted that it failed to provide 
Ms N with a recording of the sales call within a reasonable timeframe. 
L&G has apologised and offered Ms N compensation in the total sum of £800 in recognition 
of this. I can see that this was a worrying time for Ms N, which would have been exacerbated 
by the delays caused by L&G and Ms N having to chase it up. But I think £800 fairly reflects 
the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman