DRN-3169975
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society 
didnt give them a new fixed interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with Chelsea, which is on part repayment and part interest 
only terms. 
Mr and Mrs B were on a fixed rate, which came to an end in 2008. Their mortgage then 
reverted to Chelseas standard variable rate (SVR). In late 2008 they asked Chelsea for a 
new fixed rate and Chelsea sent them a rate offer, but they didnt go ahead.
In 2009, Mr and Mrs B again asked about a rate. The 2008 offer had expired by then, and 
Chelsea this time refused a rate because by now the mortgage was in arrears.
The mortgage continued in arrears for much of the next ten years, and Mr and Mrs B were in 
regular contact with Chelsea about the mortgage and to make payments. 
Mr and Mrs B came out of arrears for the last time around the end of 2018. In April 2019 they 
asked Chelsea for a new rate. Chelsea asked for payslips and bank statements to consider 
the application. Mr and Mrs B chose not to go ahead with the application.
Mr and Mrs B applied again in 2020. Again, Chelsea asked for payslips and bank statements 
 though it didnt do so on the initial call. It has apologised for that and paid them £50 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs B complained that Chelsea required payslips and bank statements before it 
would consider a new interest rate. And they complained that when they completed their 
application, including providing the information Chelsea asked for, it refused to give them a 
new interest rate, leaving them still paying the SVR. They said it wasnt fair they had been 
kept on the SVR since 2008.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs B asked for it to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, we cant consider complaints about events that happened 
more than six years before the complaint was made  unless it was only in the last three 
years that the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint; 
unless the firm consents to us looking at an out of time complaint; or unless there are 
exceptional circumstances that explain why it wasnt made in time.
Chelsea hasnt consented. Ive seen no evidence of exceptional circumstances which 
explain why Mr and Mrs B didnt complain before they did. And Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs B were aware they were paying the SVR, and that they had been refused a rate 
because of arrears in 2009  and so were aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, 
of cause for complaint that Chelsea would not let them move off the SVR. As our investigator 
explained, this means that I can only consider what has happened in the six years before 
Mr and Mrs B complained. 
Ill therefore consider, in this decision, whether Chelsea treated Mr and Mrs B fairly from 
2014 onwards.
Until 2018, Mr and Mrs B were in arrears. Chelseas policy is that it wont consider a new 
interest rate where a customer is, or recently has been, in arrears. Theres good reason for 
this, in most cases  a new fixed rate comes with an early repayment charge (ERC). And a 
customer in arrears is more likely to have to bring the mortgage to an end early, triggering an 
ERC and leaving them with more to repay. So where theres increased risk of an ERC, a 
new rate is not generally a good idea.
However, in some situations, a new rate might be the fair thing to do even where a customer 
is in arrears. A new rate might make the difference between the mortgage being 
unaffordable and affordable, for example.
In this case, Mr and Mrs B had been making their monthly payments consistently since 
December 2018. And in that situation, a new rate might be a fair thing to do  since it would 
reduce the contractual payment, allowing the customer to put more towards reducing the 
arrears each month.
However, theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs B asked for a rate at this time. Theres 
nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions that said that they were entitled to a rate, or 
that Chelsea was obliged to offer them one. And theres nothing in the mortgage rules that 
says that either. Its up to Mr and Mrs B to apply for a new rate, and when they do so 
Chelsea should consider the application fairly.
Given the arrears history, and given theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs B asked Chelsea 
for a new rate before April 2019, I cant say it treated them unfairly in not offering one.
Ill turn now to the applications Mr and Mrs B did make, in 2019 and 2020.
Mr and Mrs B also complain that Chelsea asked them for details of their income and 
expenditure, together with payslips and bank statements, when they asked for a new rate in 
2019 and again in 2020.
I dont think this was unreasonable. Under the rules of mortgage regulation, theres no 
obligation on a lender to assess affordability when considering an application for a new 
interest rate with no other change to the mortgage. 
But while theres no obligation for a lender to do that, theres no rule against it doing so 
either.
Mr and Mrs B had experienced financial trouble for many years, and had only recently 
emerged from it. For a long time, there had been a pattern of them missing some payments, 
underpaying on others, and at other times overpaying. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Chelsea to want to satisfy itself that these problems were behind them before it would agree 
to a new rate  not least because, as Ive said, tying a customer with financial difficulties into 
a new fixed rate carries a risk theyll end up having to pay an ERC if the mortgage ends up 
not being sustainable.I dont therefore think Chelsea treated them unfairly in asking for this information before it 
would consider a product switch. 
When Mr and Mrs B did finally provide payslips and bank statements in early 2021, Chelsea 
then gave their application careful consideration. 
It looked at their situation, and the mortgage and its history, alongside the application they 
made. It considered their application against its eligibility criteria  and having done so, 
refused their application. 
I do understand why Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about this decision. But as Ive said above, 
theres nothing in their terms and conditions that says Chelsea has to give them a new rate. 
A lender is entitled to have eligibility criteria  which means some customers will be eligible 
for a rate and some wont. Im satisfied that Chelsea considered their application fairly before 
refusing it, and so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman