The complaint
Ms C and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society turned down their application for a 
loan and that they didn't explain why. 
What happened
Ms C and Mr S applied for a joint personal loan with Nationwide in order to consolidate other 
debts. They say they were given the impression the application would be accepted.
Nationwide declined the application. When Mr S rang them to find out why, he was promised 
a call back once the member of staff had made enquiries with the relevant department. He 
didn't get a call back.
It was only after Mr S and Ms C complained to Nationwide that they explained the 
application had been declined because credit reference checks showed a financial 
association with a third party who had adverse data on their file.
Nationwide told Ms C and Mr S the application had been correctly declined. But they 
admitted their customer service had been poor when Mr S didn't get a call back. They gave 
them £25 in compensation.
Ms C and Mr S weren't happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didn't think Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Ms C and Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They want 
Nationwide to accept the loan application and remove any record of the declined application 
from their credit reference records. They also want Nationwide to pay the additional interest 
they've incurred on their other debts after the application was declined and compensation for 
their trouble and upset. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Nationwide have done nothing wrong. I'll explain why.
Nationwide's customer service was poor when Mr S didn't get the promised call back about 
the reasons for the application being declined. But Nationwide have compensated Ms C 
and Mr S and I think the amount of compensation was reasonable in all the circumstances.  
DRN-1130768Nationwide are entitled to carry out credit reference checks before they agree a loan, even if 
they've previously said the customer's income appears sufficient. And they're obliged to 
record the outcome of those checks with the credit reference agencies.
Ms C and Mr S haven't denied the financial association. And they haven't denied the 
adverse data on the third party's file. Nationwide are entitled to take that information into 
account. And they're entitled to make a commercial decision whether to accept the 
application on that basis.
Nationwide have fully explained their decision to Ms C and Mr S. If Ms C and Mr S do think 
the information on their credit reference files is inaccurate or misleading they can raise that 
with the credit reference agencies.  
After our investigator gave her view on the complaint, Mr S said he was also annoyed that 
Nationwide wrote to him after the application had been declined inviting him to apply for a 
loan.
This wasn't part of the original complaint to us. He says he raised it with Nationwide, but they 
didn't mention it in their final response letter and there's no mention of it in the records we've 
seen. 
So, I can't look at that issue now. Ms C and Mr S can raise it with Nationwide as a new 
complaint if they wish.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman