DRN-3845592
The complaint
Mr K complains about National House-Building Councils decision to decline a claim made 
under his new homes buildings warranty policy.
What happened
Mr K has a buildings warranty policy with NHBC which covers his home. The warranty was 
originally taken out by the builder or developer of the property, then passed on to the first 
owner of the home and subsequently to Mr K when he bought the house.
In June 2021, Mr K made a claim, notifying NHBC that there was water ingress in and 
around a dormer window in the roof, which had caused damage inside the home.
NHBC declined the claim. They said the same issue had been reported to them in early 
2019 by the previous owner of the property. At the time, theyd inspected the property and 
accepted that there was damage caused by a defect in the original build but declined the 
claim because the minimum claim value (£1,600 at the time) hadnt been met.
Mr K wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to NHBC. He said the original schedule of 
works drawn up by NHBC after their inspection was under-costed. And if NHBC had properly 
accounted for all costs the minimum claim value would have been met.
NHBC didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint and maintained their position that the original claim 
was beneath the minimum claim value. So, Mr K brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it. She thought some of the costings on the original schedule of 
works appeared low considering the nature of the work to be carried out. She proposed that 
NHBC should appoint an independent expert to cost the work set out in the schedule of 
works. And if they said the costs were higher  and above the minimum claim value at the 
time - NHBC should pay Mr K the cost of the original repairs.
Mr K had some reservations about this. He thinks the works will now cost more than they 
would have in 2019  and doesnt want NHBC to pay him 2019 prices. And he thinks the 
damage to his home may now be much worse  and he wants NHBC to pay the full cost for 
his house to be repaired.
NHBC disagreed with the proposed outcome and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. They say their original costings were complete - and fair. And the policy terms 
explicitly say that they wont cover damage caused by a failure to maintain the property  
which is what the original owner did, either by not having the repairs carried out after the 
claim was declined or by carrying them out badly.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im minded not to uphold Mr Ks complaint, unless further information, evidence or 
comment from Mr K or NHBC changes my mind. Ill explain why.
Mr K isnt responsible for what the previous owner of the property chose to do  or 
not to do  after NHBC declined the claim in 2019. And I have a great deal of 
sympathy with Mr K because it appears hes inherited a problem, which has grown 
worse over time, through no real fault of his own.
However, NHBC are entitled to see the warranty as, exactly, one warranty. When the 
house is sold to a new owner, that doesnt wipe clean, as it were, the history of the 
warranty and claims made under it.
I dont think Mr K is disputing this anyway, but for the sake of absolute clarity its 
perfectly fair and reasonable, in principle, for NHBC to decline a claim from the 
current property owner if the previous owner had made the same claim and not taken 
the necessary actions afterwards to maintain the property.
That might appear unfair to the current owner, who as I say isnt responsible for the 
previous owners actions. But the safeguard here is that when houses are bought 
and sold, surveys are carried out on behalf of the purchaser, which should highlight 
any issues with the property.
Im not entirely sure when Mr K bought the house, although the NHBC records show 
the warranty certificate being re-issued (presumably to Mr K) in June 2021, 
immediately before Mr K made his claim.
If the repairs required in February 2019 hadnt been carried out, or were carried out 
badly, Id expect that the damage around the dormer window would have been 
readily apparent to Mr K and/or his surveyor before Mr K purchased the house.
If Mr K chose to go ahead with the purchase anyway (without asking for a reduction 
in the sale price), on the basis that the house had a warranty, then that was his 
choice. And if the previous owner declined to mention the previous claim, thats not 
something for which NHBC can be held responsible.
So, NHBC are entitled to take into account what happened with the 2019 claim when 
they consider Mr Ks more recent claim. And if no (or insufficient) action was taken by 
the previous owner to maintain the property, NHBC  according to the terms of the 
policy (which again arent in dispute here) - are entitled to decline the recent claim if 
they handled the previous claim correctly. And that is the case whether or not the 
damage is now more extensive and the repairs required now would cost more than 
the minimum claim value.
So, the key question for me is whether the previous owners claim in February 2019 
was fairly and reasonably declined by NHBC.
Mr K argued - and our investigator accepted  that some of the items in the schedule 
of works prepared for the previous claim were costed at a seemingly unreasonably 
low price. And if they had been costed correctly, the repair cost would have met the 
minimum claim value.
The works were costed at less than £200 shy of the minimum claim value in any 
case, so a marginal shift in costs for one or two items of work would have brought the claim value above the £1,600 minimum.
NHBC have assured us they followed their usual process in costing the repair work 
after their inspection in March 2019. So, in essence, the work was scoped by an 
expert surveyor. That scope of work was then costed using industry standard 
costings and prices.
NHBC are entitled to rely on their experts opinion of work needed to be done to 
effectively carry out the repairs. At least unless and until they see another expert 
opinion which differs  in which case, wed expect them to take that second opinion 
into account and review their position. Theyre also entitled to rely on industry 
standard costings for particular items of building work.
NHBC have also told us that the costings have been checked at least twice to ensure 
no mistake was made in selecting the appropriate costing for each item of work or in 
the maths used to arrive at the total cost of the repairs.
On that basis, I have no real reason to suppose that the scope of works is incomplete 
or inaccurate or that the costings are lower than they should be. I note that the 
previous owner didnt quibble with the schedule of works or the costings after the 
original claim was declined.
Mr K has said that he thinks the costings around the removal of parts of the dormer 
window and the work done whilst those parts were removed is seriously under-
estimated at just over £100.
NHBC have pointed out that the specified cost (just over £100) is for the removal of 
the window frame rather than the dormer window itself. The materials and labour 
needed to then carry out work whilst the frame was removed are costed separately in 
the schedule of works.
As I say, the schedule of works was set out by an expert  on whom NHBC can feel 
entitled to rely  and the costings are drawn from a widely-used industry guide. I 
have no reason at present to assume that there was any fault or error in either the 
schedule or the costings.
If Mr K wishes to have his own expert review the schedule and costings from the 
2019 claim  and that expert comes to different conclusions to NHBC about the cost 
of the repairs required in 2019 (not the repairs required now after further 
deterioration)  then Im sure NHBC will consider that additional evidence and review 
the claim.
But as things stand, given the information and evidence available to NHBC, I cant 
sensibly conclude that theyve treated Mr K in any way unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way theyve handled his claim or in their decision to decline it.
And on that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
NHBC responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing more to add.
Mr K also responded. He disagrees with my provisional decision. Ill summarise his reasons 
for doing so. I trust Mr K will forgive me if I dont repeat what he said verbatim.Mr K still thinks that some of NHBCs original costings for the required work are clearly too 
low. 
He mentions in particular the skip cost  which he says appears to allow for payment for 
25% of a skip. He also thinks the removal of the window looks unfeasibly low at around 
£100. And he thinks the scaffolding requirement hasnt properly been accounted for.
He says the costings were only complete and fair according to NHBC and havent been 
independently verified.
Hes also concerned that NHBCs original report said the previous homeowner could carry 
out cheaper repairs by covering over the problem with mastic. He says this would only ever 
be a temporary solution, which wouldnt address the underlying defect.
And he says the previous homeowner followed this advice, but with the result that the 
problem wasnt resolved and the damage has now got worse. The implication being that 
NHBC should cover all of the damage which is now evident in Mr Ks home. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr K for the 
position he finds himself in. And Ive carefully considered all the points hes made in his 
response to my provisional decision.
However, nothing Mr K has said has changed my mind and Im not going to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K has previously made the same points about the costings in NHBCs original schedule. 
And I still have no reason to disbelieve NHBC when they say the costings were in line with 
the expert report setting out the work to be done and the prices for work taken from the 
industry guide.
NHBC do not cost 25% of a skip. They cost 25% of the weekly cost of a skip. A skip cant be 
split into four parts, but a week can.
The cost for removal of the window relates only to the removal of the window frame itself. 
The work to be done after the frame is lifted out of the aperture is costed separately. 
And the scaffolding is costed  at what appears to be the right height and width for the job in 
hand.
NHBCs inspection report did say that the homeowner could affect a cheaper repair by 
replacing the silicone around the window, making it watertight in effect. But it was absolutely 
clear about what the underlying defect in the build was and how that could be addressed. 
And the more fundamental solution was what NHBC costed in their schedule.
As I said in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons - I cant see any mistake on 
the part of NHBC at present, or any unfairness towards Mr K in the handling of his claim. 
That being the case, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to pay for an independent audit of their 
original costings.If Mr K wants to provide an independent report to show that NHBCs costings were 
unreasonable at the time, in 2019, Im sure they would consider that. 
Mr K tells us hes an experienced builder himself. And he thinks the costings were unfeasibly 
low. I wouldnt want to suggest that Mr Ks own estimations are unreasonable. But I have to 
ask him to accept that at the moment, the only evidence I have to suggest NHBC got it 
wrong is Mr Ks own opinion  and he isnt an independent party in this case.
If Mr K were to get an independent expert to audit NHBCs costings and that demonstrated 
that, at the relevant time, the previous homeowners claim should not have been rejected on 
the basis that the cost of the repairs was below the minimum claim value, then wed expect 
NHBC to re-consider the claim and pay for the independent report.
But as things stand, I cant reasonably conclude that NHBC have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way theyve handled Mr Ks claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman