DRN-2362163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
charging them an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid part of their mortgage 
accounts early. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had mortgage products with Nationwide, which if repaid early (or if only part of 
a mortgage was transferred to a new property) would mean an ERC would be charged. They 
decided to do transfer only part of the mortgage to a new property, which meant some of the 
ERC would be payable. Mr and Mrs E said their solicitor was sent a redemption statement 
saying the full ERC was due, but when the solicitor called more than once, she was told by 
Nationwide not to pay the ERC at all. This was incorrect. After completion, Nationwide wrote 
to Mr and Mrs E and said they owed £1952.94 to pay the correct ERC; it wouldnt release its 
security without payment. Mr and Mrs E paid the ERC immediately.
Mr and Mrs E complained. Nationwide said it had given incorrect information about the ERC 
to the solicitor in the calls which raised Mr and Mrs Es expectations, though in the call 
confusion arose as the solicitor hadnt explained only part of the mortgage was being 
transferred and hadnt got a manual redemption statement as instructed. But Nationwide 
said Mr and Mrs E agreed to pay the ERC when they took out the mortgage by accepting the 
offer which set out the details of the ERC. Nationwide said it wouldnt waive the ERC but 
paid a total of £350 compensation for its errors in giving the incorrect information and issues 
with its investigation of the complaint as it initially hadnt found all the calls with the solicitor.
Mr and Mrs E complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He said Mr and Mrs E knew about the ERC from the mortgage offer and as shown 
by their own calls with Nationwide during the process of part transferring the mortgage 
accounts to a new property. The investigator noted that Nationwide told Mr E to tell his 
solicitor to get a manual redemption statement to get the correct figure for the ERC in the 
circumstances, but this didnt happen. He said Nationwide had told Mr and Mrs E how to get 
the right ERC figure in the redemption statement.
The investigator agreed Nationwide then gave the solicitor incorrect information in calls and 
hadnt fully investigated when it first responded to the complaint. He thought that wasnt fair 
and reasonable, but £350 compensation for the trouble and upset was fair and reasonable. 
But the investigator said the ERC had been due and owing by Mr and Mrs E legally and it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to repay it.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision as they were disappointed 
and said they should receive more compensation as theyd used savings to pay the ERC at 
a difficult time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to punish businesses for making mistakes; my role is to ensure that the 
consumer is put into the position that they shouldve been in if the error hadnt happened. 
Lenders can claim ERCs if theyre clearly set out in the mortgage offer accepted by the 
consumer; theyre not penalty clauses as they are a genuine pre-estimate of the loss the 
lender will suffer if the mortgage is repaid early (the funding of mortgages generally comes 
from complex financial arrangements the lender has with others). Mr and Mrs E arent saying 
the ERC isnt legally due; they feel it isnt fair to charge it in the circumstances.
In Mr and Mrs Es case, I can see the mortgage offer they accepted made it clear if the 
mortgage was repaid early or only transferred in part to a new property, an ERC would be 
charged and how it would be calculated. This means if the error with the solicitor hadnt been 
made, Mr and Mrs E would always have been liable for the ERC. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for the ERC to be written off, particularly when the 
redemption statement said it was due in full (which was also incorrect but was a worst case 
scenario). Its fair and reasonable for lenders to expect consumers to read the mortgage 
offer carefully, and check it if necessary when repaying the mortgage, and the ERC 
compensates Nationwide for the loss it suffers when the mortgage is repaid early. 
Mr and Mrs E knew about the ERC (though the offer and as shown by their own calls with 
Nationwide and their surprise when the solicitor was told to just deduct the ERC), chose to 
move and I dont think the call with their solicitor was the reason why they went ahead as 
this was at the final stage of the whole process. The evidence shows Nationwide wasnt 
asked for a manual redemption statement.
But Nationwide accepts that it gave incorrect information and caused Mr and Mrs E trouble 
and upset. It also had issues in responding to the complaint, which it also accepted wasnt 
reasonable. Nationwide paid £350 compensation in total for this. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, but much of Mr and Mrs Es upset is about having to pay 
the ERC, which they agreed to pay when accepting the mortgage offer  I cant award 
compensation for this point or for having to use their savings to pay money they owed as it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable. Taking into account all the circumstances, I think £350 is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Nationwides failings and 
I wont ask Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman