DRN-4076025
The complaint
Ms Ws representative complains on her behalf that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) unfairly 
charged her for a replacement tyre when she made a claim on her roadside assistance 
policy. 
References to Ms W or her representative, will include the other.
What happened
Ms W made a claim on her breakdown cover policy that she held with RAC when she broke 
down.
When the RAC breakdown representative attended Ms W was towed to a garage and a tyre 
was replaced. 
Although Ms W had additional tyre cover included in her policy she was told she had to pay 
for the tyre replacing whilst at the tyre garage. She paid the amount requested.
RAC apologised and reimbursed the cost of the tyre after Ms Ws representative made a 
complaint.
As Ms Ws representative was not happy with RAC, she brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said RAC had 
refunded her the money she had paid for the tyre, and this is what they would expect. 
As Ms Ws representative disagreed the complaint has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw that  RAC said it was one of its contractor network representatives who attended to 
Ms Ws call out. It said as these contractors do not have access to the tyre redemption card 
this is the reason she was taken to an independent garage for the replacement tyre and had 
to initially pay for the  tyre herself. 
I saw the amount paid by Ms W was paid back to her by RAC.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy and on page ten it says
On rare occasions the use of our approved tyre network may not possible, so you may need 
to purchase your replacement tyre yourself and utilise the reimbursement process on page 
six. 
On page six it says;
Reimbursement
Under some sections, you may need to pay for the service up front and claim this back from 
us.
As RAC have reimbursed Ms W for the cost of the tyre, I do not think it acted unfairly, as this 
is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint and do not require RAC to do anything further 
in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman