DRN-2437960
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
His complaint has two elements, he says that a Group Personal Pension (GPP) was 
unsuitable for him and was mis-sold, and that there has been maladministration of the policy 
itself.
What happened
The background to this complaint will be familiar to both parties. I wont repeat it extensively 
here. Essentially, Mr M joined a GPP in 1997 on advice from Prudential. He left the 
employment shortly after and made only two pension contributions. After 1999 Prudential 
lost contact with Mr M until it traced him via the DWP in 2019 as his retirement date 
approached. Mr M was paid the policy value.
The sale of the GPP.
Mr M took advice in 1997. He was 43 and had been in employment with this employer for 
over two years. He had no other pension arrangement at the time. There was no company 
pension scheme, but his employer offered a GPP although it didnt contribute to it. A fact-find 
completed at the time recorded that Mr M had no plans to change employment over the next 
five years. His attitude to risk was recorded as two, on a scale up to five.
Prudential recommended that he join the GPP.
In fact, Mr M left this employment in 1998. He made two pension contributions and it seems 
that Prudential lost contact with him from 1999 until 2019.
Mr M complained about the sale in 2019, but Prudential rejected the complaint and said the 
GPP hadnt been unsuitable for him.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. She 
didnt think the GPP was unsuitable. In summary, she noted that the employer didnt offer a 
company pension scheme. It was recorded that Mr M had been in employment for two years 
and his circumstances were unlikely to change within the next five years. The GPP included 
some life cover. 
The investigator added that the GPP was invested in a with-profits fund which seemed to 
match Mr Ms attitude to risk. There was conflicting information provided about whether the 
employer did contribute to the GPP, but she didnt think this error was enough to say the 
policy was mis-sold. Although Prudential couldnt now provide copies of the policy 
documents, the fact-find was signed by Mr M saying that he had received information on the 
features, benefits and costs of the product among other things.
 
administration
Mr M has also complained that Prudential didnt keep him informed about his GPP and that 
this maladministration has caused him loss.
Mr M left his employment in 1998. Prudential wrote to him in May 1999, but he had moved 
address. There is then a record of contact on 5 August 1999. There was a telephone call 
which noted that two premiums had been paid to the GPP, Mr M had left the employment, 
and he was to make enquiries with the employer. His address was updated. Prudential 
followed up on this call with a letter dated 19 August 1999 to the new (correct) address. 
In November 2002 Prudential sent an annual statement to an incorrect address, and this 
was returned by the post office. 
After that, it seems that there was no further correspondence sent to Mr M until 2019 when 
Prudential traced him through the DWP. It took that step as the retirement date for the GPP 
was approaching.
The investigator noted that Prudential had sent the 2002 statement to the wrong address, 
which was returned, and so she wouldnt have expected to see any further statements or 
further communication about non-payment of the premium. However, she wasnt satisfied 
that this made any difference to Mr Ms position. Although Prudential cant show it provided 
Mr M with all the information about the policy it was meant to, she wasnt satisfied that the 
lack of communications caused him to lose out. She said that Mr M couldve planned for his 
future at any time, whether that was through this policy or any other. The GPP still held a 
value and hes received the benefit from the policy. 
Mr M said that although hes regarded his business as a pension, he has lost out as he 
couldve kept the payments up, paid in lump sums, or increased payments, and even cashed 
the pension in earlier. He also said that he couldve been contacted through DWP much 
earlier.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions on either aspect of the complaint and 
has asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been extensive correspondence on this complaint. In this decision Ive tried to 
focus on the issues which I consider to be central and critical to the outcome. Ive not 
addressed specifically each and every point thats been made by the parties, but Ive read 
and considered everything.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for essentially 
the same reasons. I dont uphold this complaint.
In summary, Im not satisfied that the advice Mr M received in 1997 to start a GPP was 
unsuitable for him. And whilst Prudential may not have communicated with Mr M as well as it 
couldve done, Im not satisfied that hes suffered any loss as a result of any lack of 
communication, or that the complaint should be upheld.
Im not satisfied the GPP was unsuitable for Mr M when it was recommended. He was 
eligible to join it and there wouldve been advantages to doing so. A GPP is usually a 
collection of personal pension policies linked to one employer which is administered by one pension provider, in this case Prudential. Because it is a collection of policies, a GPP will 
often have lower charges for the policy holder than a personal pension plan (PPP).
The GPP also seems to have had the added benefit of some life cover, although I note Mr M 
disputes that this was a feature. Mr M didnt have any other pension arrangement at the time 
and the GPP wouldve been a suitable and tax efficient method of saving for the long term. 
The GPP would likely have had lower charges than a PPP and so would have been a better 
option even if there was no employer contribution.
The GPP invested into a with-profits fund which seems consistent with Mr Ms recorded 
attitude to risk at the time, two out of five.
Mr M didnt stay in this employment for long after he began contributing to the policy. The 
fact-find recorded that he had no plans to move within five years, but he left within a year 
and so his contributions, which were made via his salary, stopped.
A feature of a GPP is that it can usually be changed to a PPP in circumstances like this 
where the policy-holder leaves or changes employment. Mr M says that he understood the 
policy was frozen and he didnt know he could continue to pay into it as a PPP. Its not 
apparent that Prudential set out what options Mr M had in 1999 when it became aware that 
he had left the employment. 
However, although this lack of information may have left Mr M uninformed about exactly 
what options were available to him in respect of the GPP, I dont think that means Prudential 
should be responsible for any subsequent failure by Mr M to make any personal pension 
provision at all (if that is the case). Mr M certainly knew, or ought to have known, that no 
further contributions were being made by him into the GPP.
And, as the investigator has said, Mr M has been free to consider and plan for his future at 
any time since. The existence of this GPP didnt prevent him from setting up any other PPP 
or any other pension arrangement. He was free to set up and pay into another pension plan 
at any time if he wished to. And I think he could have done more to resolve issues around 
this GPP, and potentially convert it to a PPP at that time, if he had wished to.
In my view, many of the same considerations apply to the issues relating to the 
administration of the GPP which Mr M has complained about. The 2002 statement appears 
to have been sent to the wrong address and so it was returned. This in turn led to Prudential 
not sending any further correspondence to Mr M until he was traced in 2019. 
Mr M seems to have treated the GPP as if it was frozen, as he says that is what he 
understood. He didnt contact Prudential for twenty years after the call and subsequent letter 
in 1999. But as Ive already said, and as the investigator also said, I dont think the lack of 
correspondence makes any difference, or should make any difference, to his overall pension 
position. Hes always been free to consider his future pension needs and make plans 
accordingly. The fact the GPP wasnt frozen and could have been available to receive 
contributions over the years hasnt prevented him from establishing other pension 
arrangements and making alternate retirement provisions. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied the 
GPP was unsuitable for Mr M when it was sold to him. In addition, Im not satisfied that any 
failure in administration of the GPP by Prudential has been a direct cause of any loss to Mr 
M. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair to make any award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman