DRN-3160671
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
What Mr T says
In early April 2020 a friend of Mr Ts was approached on an online marketplace with a 
suggestion he look in to an investment with a company Ill call R. Mr T looked at Rs website 
and saw that it offered a range of investment opportunities. He then completed checks. Mr T 
checked that R was a legitimate company at Companies House and also paid for and 
downloaded all documents that were available on the site. Mr T visited Rs registered 
address to check the company existed there, spoke to the postman and looked at reviews on 
the marketplace. He also checked the director of R on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
register before contacting R and deciding to invest.
Below are the payments Mr T made. Payees 1 and 2 are bitcoin/cryptocurrency accounts Mr 
T opened in his own name. The funds then went from accounts 1 and 2 to the scammers. 
Date Amount Payee
24/05/20 £2 1
27/05/20 £2 1
28/05/20 £2,150 1
01/06/20 £50 1
01/06/20 £8,100 1
02/06/20 £2,100 1
03/06/20 £6,150 2
08/06/20 £10,000 2
12/06/20 £10,000 2
22/06/20 £10,000 1
22/06/20 £1,000 1
25/06/20 £1,000 1
13/08/20 £1,000 1
TOTAL £51,554
When Rs online investment portal Mr T had access to, Rs website and the marketplace 
group all disappeared Mr T realised hed been the victim of a scam. He notified Santander 
on 2 September 2020. 
What Santander say
Santander hasnt agreed to refund Mr T any of his losses. It says Mr T made the payments 
to accounts in his own name so theres no loss from his Santander account. It also said that 
in any event Mr T hadnt completed sufficient checks before making the payments. 
Santander contacted the businesses the payments were made to but has been unable to 
recover any funds. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted that 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt apply because Mr T didnt 
transfer funds directly to the scammer. Instead he paid other accounts in his own name. The 
investigator went on to consider whether the payments Mr T made were unusual or out of 
character given Mr Ts previous account and payment history and decided they werent. This 
was because shortly before the scam payments listed above were made Mr T made 
legitimate payments of £25,000 and £10,000 to another online trading platform  so the 
payments formed part of a trend of high value payments. In the circumstances, the above 
payments wouldnt have stood out as suspicious.
Mr T didnt accept what the investigator said. In summary, he said, 
- After Mr T had submitted his complaint to this service the Lending Standards Board 
(LSB) published a review of the CRM Code which made recommendations that relate 
to Mr Ts circumstances. He would like the report and its recommendations to be 
considered as part of his complaint.  
- The investigators findings are based on assumptions made about Mr Ts 
circumstances based on the two previous transactions (for £25,000 and £10,000). 
The fact he made these payments does not mean he could afford to lose lower value 
amounts. 
- A pattern of thirteen payments which gradually increased in value over a few months 
to crypto currency accounts should have been a red flag to Santander. 
- He is concerned that there are inadequate checks for customers making transactions 
to cryptocurrency accounts. 
- Other victims of the same scam have been refunded under the CRM Code. 
I reviewed everything Mr T and Santander said and issued my provisional decision on 4 
October 2021. I didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. In my provisional decision I said it wasnt the 
transfer from Mr Ts account with Santander that caused his loss. I also noted that the 
Lending Standards Boards review didnt change the outcome of Mr Ts complaint and that I 
couldnt comment on the outcome of other cases. 
Santander responded to my provisional decision and said it has nothing further to add. Mr T 
didnt agree with what I said. In summary, he said:
- This was a sophisticated scam in which the scammer gained his trust over time.
- Ive overlooked the fact Santander allowed Mr T to make 13 transactions in a month. 
And hed never made payments to a crypto currency account so this should have 
been a red flag to Santander. 
- The investigator discussed previous activity on his account which has nothing to do 
with the complaint. 
- Mr T says the investigator made the assumption he could afford to lose the amount 
inadvertently sent to a scammer. 
- He knows of others whove been reimbursed under the CRM Code. 
- He completed due diligence and some Santander staff members recognised this. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr T when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. I didnt consider this in my provisional decision 
when I said it wasnt the transfer from Mr Ts account with Santander that caused the loss. 
But, Santander should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character payments 
and asked proportionate questions to challenge the purpose of out of character transactions 
if they identified them. 
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Mr Ts case?
As Ive said above, Santander should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. So, the first thing I need to decide is whether the payment requests 
made by Mr T as part of this scam were out of character given his usual account and 
payment history. Ive looked at Mr Ts account activity for the period before the scam to 
determine this. 
Having considered Mr Ts statements I can see that he made the following payments to a 
forex trading platform:
Date Amount21/04/20 £10,000
05/05/20 £25,000
Total £35,000
Santander says it contacted Mr T about these payments because they were unusual and out 
of character. So, Mr T made genuine payments totalling £35,000 for high risk investments 
shortly before he fell victim to the scam I am considering. 
I dont consider that Santander should have intervened in the scam payments because they 
were lower in value than previous genuine payments. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded Mr T should have been asked probing questions about the reason for these 
payments. The payments to payee 1 were for significantly lower amounts. The largest 
transfer to payee 1 was £10,000 and Mr T had made a recent genuine payment for the same 
amount, as well as another genuine payment for two and a half times this amount. Even if I 
consider the total amount Mr T paid to payee 1 it is still only £404 more than the £25,000 
genuine payment he made shortly before. 
Mr T also made three payments to payee 2 amounting to £26,150. Given the payments Mr T 
made before I also dont consider Santander should have identified that Mr T may potentially 
be at risk of financial harm when he made these payments. The largest of the three 
payments was for £10,000 and Mr T made genuine payments for this amount and for 
£25,000 very shortly before. Mr Ts balance after each of the scam transactions (to payees 1 
and 2) also remained healthy. 
I appreciate that Mr T hadnt made payments to a cryptocurrency account before but dont 
consider this fact alone means Santander should have done more. Mr T had previously 
made payments for a different type of high-risk investment (forex trading) and had also 
received returns. On 9 June 2020 Mr T received over £32,000 from a different investment 
platform. So, I dont consider further payments for another type of high-risk investment would 
have stood out to Santander. 
Im not saying that Mr T could afford to lose the money he transferred to fraudsters and I 
appreciate this scam will have had a significant impact on him. Instead, Im saying that as 
the payments werent unusual there was no requirement for Santander to ask Mr T 
questions about them which might have uncovered the scam and prevented the payments 
from being made. 
I also understand that Mr T completed certain checks before making the payments. If I 
thought that Santander should have asked Mr T proportionate questions about the reasons 
for the payments, Id go on to consider whether - on the balance of probabilities - those 
conversations would have resulted in the payments not being made, and if so, whether Mr T 
was responsible for any of his loss. At this point Id consider Mr Ts own actions or inaction. 
But thats not the case here.  
Mr T has referred to the CRM Code. The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because Mr 
T transferred funds to another account in his own name. The CRM Code only applies to 
certain transfers to another account in someone elses name. Also, I can only consider the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ts case, so I cant comment on the fact Mr T says others 
have been reimbursed under the CRM Code. 
Id expect Santander to take steps to try to recover Mr Ts funds. Santander contacted both 
receiving banks on the day the scam was reported to it by Mr T, but no funds remained. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T and to hear that he has been the victim of a cruel 
scam, I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for his loss.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman