DRN-4461016
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. 
Mr G is being assisted in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). The 
CMC says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to Mr G.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr G with a loan for £1,000.00 in January 2023. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £112.16. One of our investigators reviewed what         
Mr G and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be 
upheld. 
The CMC, on behalf of Mr G, disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr G could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Gs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr G could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, the CMC has said that the monthly payments for the loan were 
unaffordable to Mr G and so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Gs first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Gs application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.    
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr G did have some existing debt. But the 
vast majority of what Mr G owed was reasonably maintained. There was a problem with the 
odd payment here and there but nothing that was too alarming, or that would have required 
further investigation. So I think that 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
information which suggested Mr Gs was affordable as, on the face of things, it was.
I accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks the CMC appears to be 
saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements for more than one account in the 
same way the CMC says it should have  it may have reached a different answer. But the 
key here is that 118 118 was providing a loan for a small sum over a relatively short term  
albeit at a high rate of interest  where Mr Gs finances didnt appear to be distressed. 
Given that this is the case, I think the checks were carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate. The CMC seems to be presenting it as fact that 118 118 Money had to ask for 
copies of bank statements. This is extremely disappointing as I would expect it to know and 
understand that the rules in place relate to proportionate checks  not asking for bank 
statements on each application. And expecting a lender to request bank statements on every 
application, irrespective of circumstances can hardly be described as proportionate. 
At the absolute best some might argue that 118 118 Money could have asked Mr G a bit 
more about his actual living expenses. But even then, I dont think that obtaining further 
information on Mr Gs actual living costs would have made a difference to 118 118 Moneys 
decision to lend in this instance. I say this because the information Mr G has provided about 
his finances at the time appears to show that when his committed regular living expenses 
and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the 
funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
The CMC argues that Mr G actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information about his living costs shows and it has told us the reason why. But given the 
circumstances here, and what 118 118 Money needed to find out, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank statements 
for more than one of Mr Gs accounts. 
This is especially as bank statements werent the only way that 118 118 Money could find 
out about Mr Gs living expenses in the first place. So, in my view, finding out more about     
Mr Gs living expenses, which is the absolute most that can be expected of 118 118 Money 
here, wont have led to determine the loan payments to be unaffordable.  
Furthermore, as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was providing to Mr G and there wasnt 
a history of Mr G obtaining funds and then returning for more, Im satisfied that 118 118 
Money was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan was affordable Mr G. As this is the 
case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr G. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman