DRN-2727446
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) wont refund him a payment he 
made on his credit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
What Mr S says
Mr S wished to buy a new engine for his car so entered his details on a reconditioned engine 
website to get some quotes. He says that four or five companies got back to him. One of 
them was local so he chose that one. Ill call it company A. Mr S called company A to 
discuss the engine and then made two payments to it. He made the initial payment of £800 
from an account with a different bank and the remainder, £695.08, using his Capital One 
credit card on 23 December 2020. He did so by providing his details in a phone call. The 
total price included collection of Mr Ss car, fitting of the engine, returning the car and a 
warranty.
When company A didnt collect Mr Ss car as planned, he called and was promised a call 
back, but this didnt happen and Mr Ss calls to company A were terminated. He went to the 
address on company As invoice and found a firm of accountants which gave an address for 
a representative of company A. Mr S went to the address provided but the owner knew 
nothing about Mr S or his payment. Mr S found out that company A was in fact a fake garage 
using part of the name of a legitimate one. 
Mr S notified the other bank and Capital One of the scam and received a refund from the 
other bank. Hes unhappy that Capital One will not refund him what he lost. 
What Capital One say
Capital One say it was unable to raise a chargeback or consider a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75 CCA). This was because although he wasnt 
aware at the time, Mr S made the payment to B, a money transfer agent, and there was no 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
Authorisation
A payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by the payer only if the payer 
has given his or her consent to the execution of the payment transaction. The regulations go 
on to say that such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider. The form and procedure are 
usually set out in the terms and conditions.
In this case Im satisfied Mr S authorised the transaction when he gave his card details in his 
telephone call with company A. Although I note that when he made the payment he didnt 
know it was being sent to a fraudster. 
Did Capital One act reasonably when the payment was made?
Ive considered whether Capital One should have taken any action to prevent the fraudulent 
payment from being made but given that the payment was made by credit card and Mr Ss 
normal account and payment history I dont consider it should. 
The transaction wasnt sufficiently unusual or great that Id expect Capital One to flag it and 
ask questions before processing it. And payments on credit cards often fluctuate as 
customers make larger payments when required. 
As Mr S paid using his credit card, I need to consider section 75 CCA and chargeback.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 CCA makes the provider of credit (Capital One in this case) equally liable with the 
supplier where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of 
goods or services financed by the credit. However, with limited exceptions, section 75 CCA 
will only apply when there is a direct relationship between the debtor (in this case Mr S), 
creditor (Capital One) and supplier (company A). 
In this case Im not satisfied that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship exists. Mr Ss 
payment was not made directly to A, but to B  which is a payment service provider. This 
breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. There are some limited circumstances when 
another party may be involved in the transaction process and the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain is not broken, such as when a merchant acquirer or payment aggregator is involved. 
But this isnt the case here. 
So there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between the parties and no right for 
Mr S to make a claim under section 75 CCA. Mr Ss payment was to B, and B hasnt 
breached its contract with Mr S or misrepresented the service it supplies. The scammer in 
this case provided Mr S with his account details with B so that, without knowing, Mr S made 
a top up card payment to the scammers account. It seems likely the scammer did so to, in 
effect, provide protection from section 75 CCA claims  knowing that paying B broke the 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. The fact that Mr S had no knowledge of this has no 
bearing on his rights under section 75 CCA.  
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. It is organised and 
run through the overarching card scheme (Visa and Mastercard predominantly) but 
customers wishing to use the service must go through their card issuer (Capital One in this 
case). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks are not under any formal obligation 
to submit a chargeback claim. But this services view is that it is good practice for a bank to make a chargeback claim where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of 
success 
In this case I consider Capital One acted reasonably in not raising a chargeback claim, as 
there was no reasonable prospect of success. Again, whilst I accept Mr S didnt know this at 
the time, the payment was to top up an account with B and was completed successfully. I 
believe that as B provided the service it was meant to B would be able to successfully 
challenge a chargeback claim. 
Other ways of recovering Mr Ss funds
Banks do not usually contact payee banks to try to recover payments made by credit card. In 
Mr Ss case Capital One contacted B and provided an indemnity when Mr S provided details 
of his communication with B including Bs request for an indemnity. I consider Capital One 
acted reasonably in not contacting B before this. And even if Capital One had contacted the 
payee bank earlier I dont believe it would have made a difference. This is because Capital 
One was notified of the fraud on 30 December 2020 and nearly all the funds Mr S sent by 
credit card payment to the payees account were used up on 23 December 2020. The 
remaining £3.40 has been returned to Mr S. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry Mr S has been the victim of a scam, I dont consider Capital One 
acted unreasonably in this case.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman