DRN-4074741
The complaint
Miss D complains Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly lent to her.
Miss D did have a previous loan with 118 118 Money, but she is only complaining about the 
most recent loan which is set out below. 
What happened
Miss D was approved for a £1,000 loan by 118 118 Money in May 2017. The term of the 
loan was 24 months, with repayments of effectively £77. She says this loan was 
irresponsibly lent by 118 118 Money. Miss D says had 118 118 Money completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He argued that 118 118 Money had 
not completed reasonable and proportionate checks. Miss D had provided further 
information in the form of bank statements. Our investigator said had 118 118 Money 
completed further checks it wouldve seen Miss D could not afford the repayments.
118 118 Money did not respond to the assessment, so the matter has been referred to a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ds complaint. 
118 118 Money and Miss D are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here. 
118 118 Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was not 
irresponsibly lent to Miss D. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time 118 
118 Money lent effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Miss Ds ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably 
over its term, without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total 
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
In addition to this, it wasnt sufficient for 118 118 Money to just complete proportionate 
checks  it also had to consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair 
lending decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring 
repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further.
This loan was for £1,000 and was set to be repaid over a 24 month period. 118 118 Money 
says it completed proportionate checks before lending to Miss D. This included searching 
Miss Ds credit file, and completing and income and expenditure assessment on her. Ive 
considered 118 118 Moneys arguments, but in this instance I disagree with it. 
The affordability assessment demonstrated that Miss D was employed full time with her 
income declared at around £1,340 per month. Her outgoings at that time including rent 
amount to around £940. This included contributions to her existing credit commitments. 
The credit file search demonstrated that Miss D had a number of existing credit 
commitments. Miss D had total existing credit of over £15,000 which included unsecured 
loans, credit cards, mail order accounts and overdrafts. The credit report also suggested that 
she had some cash advances historically and in the past 12 months. There were also some 
historic defaults on her file. Further, whilst the majority of Miss Ds credit had been 
maintained well, there had been signs in the last 12 months of some issues managing her 
credit. This included arrears on an existing personal loan, and mail order account, and a 
continuous increasing of her credit limits across all of her credit cards including exceeding 
her limits (albeit marginally a couple months prior to this loan). She had also recently 
exceeded her overdraft balance, again only marginally.
Whilst the value of the loan was small  only £1,000, as stated above there is a requirement 
for 118 118 Money to carefully consider the information it was provided with. Im satisfied 
having done so that there were sufficient discrepancies between Miss Ds application and 
that of her credit file to suggest 118 118 Money needed to complete further checks to better 
verify the information it was relying on. In particular Im satisfied that it shouldve done more 
to verify Miss Ds outgoings. It follows that Im not persuaded 118 118 Money completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent completed in this instance, Ive considered 
what further checks wouldve likely shown had 118 118 Money completed them. In this 
instance Miss D has provided our service with copies of her bank statements in the months 
leading up to the decision to lend this loan. In the absence of other information Ive placed 
considerable weight on the information in these statements when coming to my conclusion.
The statements demonstrate that Miss D was not in a sustainable financial position. As was 
suggested by her credit file, Miss D is showing as being overdrawn and reliant on her 
overdraft. The statements show that she is frequently up to her overdraft limit, and any 
income does not place her in a position where she is able to reduce this, or leave this facility.
The statements suggest Miss Ds outgoings are higher than those declared in the 
application, with her total outgoings for rent, bills and existing debts amounting to over her 
declared monthly income. Whilst Miss D was doing some overtime during this period, even 
taking that amount into account, she was exceeding her income with her outgoings on a 
monthly basis.
So based on this information Im satisfied that Miss D was not a position that she could 
sustainably afford to repay this loan. And on that basis, 118 118 Money made an unfair 
decision to lend to her. 
Putting things right
Miss D has lost out by the actions of 118 118 Money, as she has had to pay additional interest and charges. 
In order to put things right I require Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money:
To add up the total amount of money Miss D received as a result of having been 
given this loan. The repayments Miss D made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Miss D having paid more than they received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss D.
118 118 Money should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit 
file in relation to this loan but that only needs to be done once the loan has been 
repaid. 
I understand that 118 118 Money may have sold the outstanding balance on Miss Ds 
account to a third-party debt purchaser. If it has, it will need to either buy the account back 
from the third-party concerned and make the adjustments set out above, pay an amount to 
the third party in order for it to make the necessary reductions, or pay Miss D an amount  
such that she can settle a portion of this debt with the third-party that corresponds with her 
loss - to ensure that it fully complies with this direction
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to 
take off tax from this interest. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman