DRN-3294474
The complaint
Mr A complains that Phoenix Life Limited has delayed paying him the proceeds of an 
endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr A took out an endowment policy for mortgage repayment purposes with his ex-partner 
Mrs A.  In 2005 they divorced and as part of the divorce settlement, Mr A bought Mrs A out 
of the policy. The court order also required Mrs A to assign her interest in the policy to Mr A. 
The policy was due to mature in March 2018 and in January 2018 Phoenix wrote to the 
lender and Mr A and Mrs A about the impending maturity. The lender notified Phoenix that it 
no longer held an interest in the policy, so it sent Mr A and Mrs A a full maturity pack in 
February 2018. As part of this Phoenix required ID documentation for Mrs A. 
Phoenix chased for a response on 5 March and 12 March 2018. On 22 March 2018, Mr A 
explained Mrs A no longer had an interest in the policy and enclosed a copy of the court 
order. On 7 April 2018, Phoenix sent Mr A a letter explaining that wasnt sufficient as the 
policy had never been assigned. It sent chasers to Mr A for the information in May and June 
2018. 
Mr As solicitors sent another copy of the court order to Phoenix with a request to release 
funds. Phoenix explained that wasnt possible without Mrs As permission. Mr As solicitors 
provided a letter from Mrs A releasing the policy proceeds in December 2018. But it didnt 
provide the ID documentation previously asked for. Phoenix chased this a number of times 
with Mr As solicitors for several months, and then tried contacting Mrs A themselves. Mrs A 
didnt respond despite several chasers. It wasnt until December 2019 that Mrs A confirmed 
she couldnt provide the ID information needed. Phoenix took the decision to pay out the 
proceeds of the policy to Mr A, but only paid out 50%. 
Mr A complained about that. Phoenix upheld the complaint. Although it didnt accept the 
delays were down to anything it had down wrong, it did agree it should have paid 100% of 
the policy proceeds in December 2019. It arranged for the remainder of the maturity value to 
be paid, added 8% interest to that sum, and offered Mr A £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. It also offered to consider any additional mortgage interest costs between it paying 
50% of the proceeds and 100%. 
Our investigator concluded Phoenix had fairly resolved the complaint already. Mr A 
disagreed and aske for the matter to be reviewed. In summary he has said:
The £200 offer was only in relation to the delay in 50% of the proceeds being paid. It 
has ignored the delay in paying out the first half of is money, as it could have paid 
that out when the policy matured in March 2018. 
The 8% interest doesnt cover the two-year delay. 
He finds it hard to believe the maturity proceeds didnt remain invested and would 
like evidence they sat in account earning just 0.5%. He considers this to be evidence 
of gross misconduct. 
Phoenix has refused to look at additional mortgage costs incurred prior to December 
2019 due to its delay, and other costs he has incurred. 
He expects a more realistic offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A feels strongly about his complaint. However, I can see Phoenix has 
already taken steps and made offers to put right what went wrong. Having considered the 
evidence and arguments carefully, Im satisfied it has already done enough. 
I accept Mr A had a court order that meant he bought his ex-partner out the policy. But the 
court order also required Mrs A to assign the policy solely to Mr A. I havent seen any 
evidence those steps took place. Phoenix wasnt a party to the court order, and so it didnt 
bind Phoenix to take any steps in relation to the policy  thats why the court order set out a 
requirement for it to be assigned. 
As it wasnt assigned, that meant that at the point of maturity both Mr A and Mrs A were 
entitled to 100% of the proceeds. And being joint thats 100% between them not 50% each. 
As Mrs A was still entitled to 100% of the proceeds along with Mr A, I find no basis on which 
to say Phoenix ought to have paid out any of the policy proceeds prior to getting confirmation 
Mrs A was happy to release 100% of the value to Mr A. 
Despite asking Mr A and his solicitors on several occasions to obtain that confirmation, that 
wasnt obtained until December 2018. But that wasnt the only information needed; Phoenix 
also needed Mrs As identity information, and Mr A was notified of this requirement as early 
as April 2018. Phoenix chased Mr As solicitors several times and it also took steps to try 
and contact Mrs A itself. It didnt manage to reach her until December 2019, at which point it 
was explained nothing could be provided. 
Im not persuaded the delay between March 2018 and December 2019 to be the fault of 
Phoenix. The policy hadnt been assigned as it ought to have been, and there was a 
substantial delay in providing the requirements needed to pay out the maturity value. And 
the information provided shows it was regularly chasing the parties in the intervening period. 
It follows that I dont require Phoenix to pay 8% simple interest per year for any delay that 
occurred prior to December 2019. And as I dont find it did anything wrong in relation to that 
period, I also dont find it should cover any additional mortgage interest or other costs either.  
Mr A has asked to see evidence that the maturity value was sitting in an account rather than 
being invested.  Hell need to ask Phoenix for that information. Its standard industry practice 
for policy values to be held in a suspense account where maturity proceeds havent been 
claimed or paid out, for whatever reason; they dont remain invested.  Indeed, if they did, 
theres a potential for the policy to lose value, placing the funds in a suspense account limits 
the risk of that happening.
Phoenix accepts it should have paid out 100% of the maturity value in December 2019. And 
it has already added 8% simple interest to 50% of the proceeds to account for that delay. 
Thats what I would have asked it to do if it hadnt already. And its offered an additional 
amount of interest from the original maturity date. 
Phoenix has also acknowledged that its delay in paying out 100% of the proceeds in 
December 2019 has caused Mr A trouble and upset. Im satisfied the £200 its offered is 
reflective of the impact that delay had. And Ive already explained why I dont find it responsible for any delay before that. That brings its total offer to £261.95. 
Im please to see that Phoenix has also offered to consider any additional mortgage interest 
costs between December 2019 and when it paid the remainder of the proceeds to Mr A. I 
would urge Mr A to provide that information to Phoenix, if he did incur additional mortgage 
interest costs for that period. 
Overall, Im satisfied the offer made by Phoenix is fair and reasonable and so I dont require 
it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited has already made a fair 
offer to settle this complaint. I require it to pay Mr A £261.95 if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman