DRN-3024234
The complaint
Miss K complains about the charges shes been asked to pay by RCI Financial Services 
Limited (RCI) at the end of a car lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss K acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. But we dont have jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint handling process a business adopts and Im not therefore considering that aspect 
of Miss Ks complaint.
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss K responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
I cant see that Miss K disputed the investigators findings on the fairness of the 
refurbishment charges RCI levied. But for completeness I think the investigator has set out 
the relevant guidance from the BVRLA correctly and, having reviewed the photographs of 
the damage in the collection report, Im persuaded all of the damage is fairly chargeable as 
it's beyond what the BVRLA guidance would suggest was fair wear and tear.
The charge for the missing key
The BVRLA guidance says, A full set of keys, including the spares, should be returned. 
Miss K didnt return all the keys with the car and by the time she did return them, at least a 
couple of months later, the car had been sold and they would have been of no use to RCI. I 
can see from RCIs system notes in September 2020 that theyd explained if the car was 
sold it wouldnt be possible to waive the charge theyd made. So, I dont think RCI had to 
waive this charge.
The charge for the missing service record
The BVRLA, on this issue, advise:
The service book supplied with the vehicle must be present and date-stamped by the 
service agent/repairer
The business have explained that the terms required the car to be returned with a stamped 
service book and its not disputed that wasnt the case.
Miss K says she sent the service record subsequently, but I can see that RCI disputed that 
record as they said the document didnt show the car registration or the garage who had 
completed the work. Ive not seen that evidence either, but even if I had I wouldnt think it 
necessary for RCI to remove the charge.
Thats because any loss they have incurred as a result of the car not having full service 
records would have been likely to have been incurred in the resale of the vehicle before 
Miss K provided the evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman