DRN-1921398
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a letter he received from Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) in March 2019, 
was unclear and misleading.
What happened
Lloyds wrote to Mr C on 18 March 2019 and told him it was applying a credit of £1,016.11 to 
the final balance of his closed credit card account. The letter explained the reason for the 
adjustment and that it was the result of an internal review process. 
Mr C says the letter was misleading, and it led him to believe Lloyds was going to refund the 
amount due to him. He says hed already made plans to spend the money, and when it didnt 
arrive, he complained to Lloyds on 24 July 2019.
Lloyds provided a response to the complaint on 2 August 2019 and explained the adjustment 
to the credit card balance was calculated automatically. But it had reviewed the account 
again, and decided an adjustment was not required because Mr C hadnt used his card 
during the period between 13 March and 8 July 2013. These were the dates of the review 
period mentioned in the letter of 18 March 2019.
Lloyds explained it hadnt been made aware Mr C had discharged his July 2013 bankruptcy. 
Lloyds said the default it registered, after being told of his bankruptcy, would remain on his 
credit file for six years. But this was due to be removed from his credit file shortly.
Lloyds didnt consider its letter of 8 March 2019 misleading and didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and concluded the wording of the letter Lloyds sent 
Mr C on 18 March 2019, made it reasonably clear an adjustment was being made to the 
credit card balance.
Mr C doesnt agree with the investigators view. He says that at best the wording was 
ambiguous, and he requested an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my final decision, I think it may be beneficial for me to confirm that I am 
aware Mr C was made bankrupt in July 2013, and that he was discharged from bankruptcy 
about a year later. Therefore, the letter it issued on 18 March 2019 reasonably told Mr C it 
understood his financial affairs were being dealt with by his Insolvency Practitioner or Official 
Receiver. And that the letter provided Mr C with notice of the adjustment to his credit card 
balance that was included in his bankruptcy.
I have mentioned this because I have some empathy with Mr Cs position. Its not 
unreasonable for him to have formed the view that, because his bankruptcy had been 
discharged, the funds would come back to him. However, this isnt something Lloyds told 
him, and Mr C could have sought clarity from his trustee in bankruptcy if he believed this to 
be the case.
In respect of the wording of the 18 March 2019 letter, I am satisfied that it wasnt misleading 
or ambiguous. There is nothing in the letter to suggest, or imply, Mr C is about to receive the 
sum of £1,016.11 from Lloyds Bank. As I have said earlier, I empathise with Mr C because 
he may have had a different perspective on the matter, but I dont agree Lloyds told Mr C he 
would be receiving a refund, or payment.
Regardless of this, I note that Lloyds has since manually reviewed the amount it offset 
against the credit card balance and concluded that it shouldnt have been applied. However, 
it has decided to retain the adjustment to the credit card balance as a gesture of goodwill. I 
appreciate that Mr C wants me to tell Lloyds to refund this amount to him directly, but I cant 
do this, even if I had upheld the complaint. The adjustment relates to a period when Mr C 
was bankrupt, and any such amount would have to be paid through his Insolvency 
Practitioner, or the Official Receiver and would be a matter for his trustee in bankruptcy to 
deal with. And, I consider the action taken by Lloyds to allow the offset to stand is a 
reasonable goodwill gesture under the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Lloyds Bank PLC 
to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman