DRN-2981100
The complaint
Mr M said that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One lent him money through two 
credit card accounts, which he said he couldnt afford to pay back. But when he complained, 
it only refunded the interest he paid on one. He wanted the other card refunded too.
What happened
Mr M said he had a credit card with Capital One, with a limit of £500. And he said Capital 
One refused to raise that limit when he asked it to. But in 2020 he applied for a new account, 
and Capital One accepted his application, giving him a £1,500 limit. Mr M said if Capital One 
had been a responsible lender and done proper checks, it wouldve seen that he couldnt 
afford to pay this back, and would also have seen the gambling problem he had at the time.
Mr M said that he wanted Capital One to refund all the interest hed paid on the accounts, 
plus statutory interest. And he wanted it to work out an affordable payment plan for him to 
clear any remaining debt. 
Capital One said it had upheld Mr Ms complaint about his first card. It refunded the cost of 
borrowing, which was £627.51, made up of fees and interest charged, plus 8% statutory 
interest paid after tax. But it wouldnt make any refund for the second card. It didnt think it 
had made a mistake by lending him that money.
Capital One said Mr M applied for his second card on 17 January 2019. He told Capital One 
then that he was employed and earning £21,216 per year, and that he owned his own home. 
Capital One said it checked his credit file, and whilst that showed several previous defaults, 
none of them were recent, and all the defaulted balances were being reduced. Capital One 
also said that Mr Ms six active financial agreements were all in good order including his 
existing Capital One account. Mr M had been paying more than the minimum onto that card, 
and paying on time. So Capital One said there was no reason for it to think Mr M couldnt 
afford this lending. It had opened a card account for him with a credit limit of £1,500.
Capital One said Mr M had generally been paying more than the minimum payments to this 
card, and all his payments had been on time. So it didnt think this lending had been 
unaffordable for Mr M. It wouldnt pay back interest hed been charged. 
Mr M said that must be wrong. He said if Capital One had checked his credit file, it wouldve 
seen that he had lots of debt and defaults on other credit cards and loans, including a credit 
card with it. Mr M said his take home pay at the time was £1,400 a month. His rent, 
household bills and transport costs came to about £1,100. Food and clothes costs were 
about £200 a month. But at this point he said he had over £12,000 of debt, and his monthly 
debt repayments were more than £600. His minimum repayment to Capital One was over 
£70 a month. Mr M said he couldnt afford his existing debt and he was having to borrow 
more every month. And Mr M said that Capital One had said his previous card wasnt 
affordable, so he didnt understand why this one was fine. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied the 
checks Capital One did when Mr M applied for the card were reasonable, and its decision to 
lend to him was responsible. His application said that he was earning £21,216, and he owed 
£6,099 on active accounts at that time. There was no evidence of recent arrears or late 
payments, and although he had defaults, those were quite old when he applied for the card. 
Our investigator said, looking at Mr Ms salary and his financial commitments, she thought 
he wouldve been able to repay the borrowing in a reasonable amount of time. She said that 
although Mr M had told her that he was struggling with a gambling problem at the time, she 
didnt think that Capital One would have known about that when it opened his account.
Mr M didnt agree. He said Capital One had repeatedly refused to let him increase the credit 
limit on his first card, but then it let him open a second card. And he said if the first card was 
unaffordable, then the second one would be too. Mr M also said that he had told Capital One 
he was a homeowner with mortgage which wasn't true, and he said that his bank statements 
also proved that he earned a lot less than hed told Capital One. He thought that showed that 
Capital One didnt do proper checks.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that Mr Ms circumstances wouldve been 
different when he applied for the first card, in 2016. She had looked at the second card, 
because Capital One hadnt upheld that complaint. And looking at the information on his 
credit file in 2019, there was nothing to suggest the lending at this time was too high risk.
Our investigator said that her view of Mr Ms complaint didnt mean that the lending didnt 
become unaffordable over time, it just meant she was satisfied that Capital One carried 
out suitable checks for the amount of credit it gave Mr M, when he applied for the card. 
Our investigator noted that Mr M had told Capital One he was a homeowner, but it would 
have been able to see that he had no mortgage. And it would use the salary information 
he provided to assess lending to him. 
Mr M said he had asked Capital One for an increase only two months before he opened the 
other card. And it had said no. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his application, so it 
was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
When Capital One reviewed the lending it made to Mr M on his first card, it looked at the 
decision it made in April 2016. That review would have taken account of things like a number 
of very recent defaults. And Capital One has reached the view that it hadnt done enough to 
show that this lending was affordable for him, back then.
Mr M hasnt complained about this. Hes complained that Capital One didnt reach the same 
view, when it looked at the lending it made to him in 2019.
But just because Capital One thinks it made a mistake in 2016, that doesnt necessarily 
mean that it has to reach the same decision about the lending it made in 2019. I know that 
Mr M says he had only recently asked Capital One to increase his credit limit on his first 
card, and it had said no. But then he completed a full application for a new card, and as part of this, he updated Capital One on his financial situation. Capital One used this information 
to assess whether it could lend to him. It doesnt think it made a mistake, and Ive not been 
able to see that it was wrong about that.
Mr M says that Capital One just relied on what he told it about his income and his financial 
position. He said he exaggerated how much he earned, and if Capital One had done proper 
checks, it wouldve realised that. 
Businesses arent automatically required to check that everyone who applies for credit is 
telling the truth about how much they earn, before they make any lending at all. If Capital 
One had reason to suspect that Mr M hadnt been honest about his income, then it shouldve 
asked more questions before lending to him. But Mr M sent us his current account 
statements for the three months prior to his application, and although I can see that his 
income isnt a regular amount each month, the income he declared to Capital One looks to 
me to be consistent with those statements. From what Ive seen, if Mr M had exaggerated 
about how much he earned, or about his financial position overall, I dont think that Capital 
One shouldve realised that. 
Mr M also told us that he had a gambling problem, and didnt own his own home. Again, if 
Capital One had reason to suspect that this was the case, then it shouldve asked more 
questions before lending to him. But I havent been able to see how Capital One wouldve 
become aware of these things at the point when Mr M applied for this lending.
I understand that Mr M has told us the real picture in 2019 was very different to what he told 
Capital One when he applied for this second card. But I dont think that was clear to Capital 
One. And on what it reasonably understood the position to be then, I think that the checks it 
carried out, before it lent to Mr M, were sufficient for it to reasonably conclude that this 
lending would not be irresponsible. So I dont think that Capital One has to do any more now. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman