DRN-3501708
The complaint
Miss B and Mr W complain that private information was sent to a third party by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
 
What happened
Miss B and Mr W have told us that an ex-partner had been sent a copy of their August 2021 
joint account statement. They raised a complaint with HSBC and asked it to investigate 
whether bank statements and other personal information had been shared without their 
permission. 
HSBC investigated and issued a final response. HSBC confirmed no other accounts had 
been impacted and offered Miss B and Mr W £250 to apologise. 
Miss B and Mr W referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought HSBCs offer to settle the complaint was fair and reasonable and didnt asked 
it to increase the award. Miss B and Mr W asked to appeal and said they didnt feel HSBCs 
offer was fair and that it had still failed to adequately explain what had occurred. As Miss B 
and Mr W didnt agree with the investigator, their case has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss B and Mr W are concerned that HSBC has failed to clearly explain what 
happened. And theyre worried a similar issue may occur again in the future. I can 
understand how concerning it mustve been for a bank statement to be sent to someone 
without permission, especially if theres a previous relationship. But HSBC has explained the 
issue most likely came about when the third party updated their address. A systems link, due 
to a previous joint account, caused the address to be changed on Miss B and Mr Ws 
statement. Whilst I understand Miss B and Mr W would like a more complete answer, Im 
satisfied HSBC has responded to their complaint fairly and set out what happened. 
HSBC says the issue shouldnt happen again, but I accept Miss B and Mr W will likely feel it 
shouldnt have happened at all. Ultimately, we cant compensate consumers for issues that 
have yet to occur. So if private information is shared again, Miss B and Mr W have the option 
of raising the matter with HSBC and referring it to us if necessary.
HSBC offered Miss B and Mr W £250 to resolve their complaint. I can see how upsetting the 
situation has been and can appreciate why Miss B and Mr W are concerned. But I think the 
£250 compensation HSBC agreed to pay fairly reflects the nature of its mistake and impact 
on Miss B and Mr W. The settlement figure of £250 is very much in line with what I wouldve 
told HSBC to pay had no offer been made. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B and Mr W but as Im satisfied HSBC dealt with their complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to increase the settlement or take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman