DRN-3760596
The complaint
This complaint is about problems Mrs G and Mr W say they experienced after they made a 
lump sum payment to their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mrs G and Mr W made a payment of £95,238.48 to their mortgage in August 2020. This 
reduced their contractual monthly payment (CMP) from around £1,800 to around £1,000. 
Sometime later, in April 2021, Mrs G and Mr W received a notice of arrears letter which 
showed their CMPs remained at the higher amount and they were around £12,900 in 
arrears.
Mrs G and Mr W contacted Barclays to find out what was going on and it transpired their 
mortgage had accidently been recorded as fully redeemed even though an outstanding 
balance remained. Their direct debit had been cancelled and as Mrs G and Mr W hold an 
offset mortgage, their accounts had also been delinked, so they werent receiving the benefit 
of a reduction in interest during this time. Mrs G and Mr W say they didnt notice the direct 
debits werent being taken.
Barclays looked into Mrs G and Mr Ws concerns and agreed it had made a mistake. To 
correct it, Barclays re-linked all eligible accounts. The lost offset benefit was calculated and 
applied as a credit accrual of £2,117.89. Barclays also calculated Mrs G and Mr W could 
have saved £301.81 in compound interest which it offered to apply to the account. 
Mrs G and Mr W requested that Barclays waive the interest billed against the account from 
August 2020 to the date the complaint was resolved. Barclays considered this, but it didnt 
think this would be fair. It said Mrs G and Mr W should have been aware something had 
gone wrong when it sent them a statement in October 2020, so it offered a refund of three 
months interest from September to November 2020, which was £500.06. It also offered 
Mrs G and Mr W a further £800 to compensate them for the stress and inconvenience 
caused to them.
Mrs G and Mr W say they have little confidence Barclays calculations are accurate, and they 
didnt want to start making CMPs again until the balance on their mortgage account was 
back in the position it should have been in. Mrs G and Mr W are also unhappy theyve 
continued to receive arrears correspondence and were told they were at risk of having their 
home repossessed if they didnt clear the arrears. Mrs G and Mr W say the situation has 
been very stressful and they dont think they have been properly compensated for that. 
Mrs G and Mr W have since paid the outstanding arrears and set up a direct debit for their 
CMPs.
Our investigator looked into Mrs G and Mr Ws concerns and felt Barclays hadnt done 
enough to confirm the figures it had calculated were accurate, but they didnt think Barclays 
needed to offer any further compensation to resolve the complaint. As Mrs G and Mr W 
disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mrs G and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld but I dont think 
Barclays needs to offer any more compensation. Ill explain why.
Barclays has accepted that it was responsible for the original error and its offered a sum of 
compensation to say sorry for this. So, Ive focused on the main complaint points Mrs G and 
Mr W have asked us to investigate, which ultimately come down to whether the redress 
theyve been offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Ive thought about this carefully and I think the amount Barclays has offered is fair. I say this 
because the offer puts Mrs G and Mr W back in the position they would have been in had the 
error not occurred. It also includes additional compensation of £501.06 in refunded interest 
that they otherwise would have had to pay. As well as £800 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Barclays has provided its calculations to show how the offset interest was calculated. The 
information shows a number of accounts held by Mrs G and Mr W and that the balances of 
each of those accounts were factored into Barclays calculations. Our investigator has asked 
Barclays to supply more information about how the final amount was reached and to provide 
this to Mrs G and Mr W. They said this because they didnt think it was clear what date the 
offset amounts have been refunded up to.
I agree that Barclays should give Mrs G and Mr W more information about how the offset 
interest was calculated given their concerns. Its possible the dates vary because the 
mortgage current account was the first account to be relinked when the error came to light in 
April 2021. It looks like Barclays may have used a later date for the remaining eligible offset 
accounts because they were relinked later on. But, if they were relinked at the same time, in 
April 2021, then its possible Mrs G and Mr W have benefited from the date used for their 
other offset accounts. Either way, I dont think Mrs G and Mr W have been detrimented by 
the dates Barclays used in its calculations.  
Our investigator also felt the calculations in relation to the compound interest for non-
payment could have been explained better. And again, I think its fair to ask Barclays to send 
a breakdown of this to Mrs G and Mr W to reassure them the calculations are correct. But I 
have no reason to doubt Barclays wouldnt have refunded the correct amount. Mrs G and Mr W became aware of the problem in April 2021, at this point, while I appreciate 
their complaint was still being investigated for some time after this, they were aware their 
CMPs were not being taken and they should have reinstated their payments from then. It 
appears Barclays had some issues setting the direct debit back up, but Mrs G and Mr W 
could have made manual payments or set up a standing order in the interim. That means, I 
cant consider any financial loss in terms of compound interest for non-payment since then. It 
was Mrs G and Mr Ws decision to delay making payments while they waited for their 
complaint to be resolved, but they were still responsible for making their CMPs.
I appreciate Mrs G an Mr W are unhappy they continued to receive correspondence about 
the arrears on their account, but I think it was reasonable for Barclays to have warned them 
of the consequences of not keeping up with their CMPs. Despite the mistake Barclays made, 
it was entitled to expect Mrs G and Mr W to keep up with their CMPs going forward. As 
Mrs G and Mr W chose not to, they accrued further arrears on their account which Barclays 
is not responsible for.
In summary, Barclays has attempted to put Mrs G and Mr W back in the position they would 
have been in had the error not occurred. In addition to this, it has refunded three months of 
interest which it didnt have to do, as well as making an award for £800 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs G and Mr W experienced. So, the total compensation for the mistake 
excluding financial loss, was £1,300.06. While I appreciate it took several months for 
Barclays to resolve the mistake and this would have been both stressful and inconvenient for 
Mrs G and Mr W, this is more than the ombudsman service would usually award in such 
situations. So, I think Barclays offer is fair and reasonable and I wouldnt expect it to 
compensate Mrs G and Mr W further. 
This is my understanding of what Mrs G and Mr W have been offered to correct the mistake. 
But if Mrs G and Mr W still have concerns about whether the outstanding mortgage balance 
is correct, they may wish to seek independent advice to have this reviewed by an 
appropriate third party. I say this because its not our role, at this service, to provide an in-
depth analysis of a consumers mortgage account. If Mrs G and Mr W now wish to accept 
the offer, they can, and in that case, Barclays should pay the remaining compensation as set 
out in the putting things right section below.
Finally, I note that Mrs G and Mr W have raised a new complaint point about the credit limit 
on a credit card being reduced. But as the new complaint point didnt form part of their 
original complaint to Barclays, I cant comment on that in this decision. I say this because 
Barclays hasnt had the opportunity to consider their point first, and as an informal and 
impartial service  it wouldnt be right for me to reach a finding before the business has had 
an opportunity to look into it.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should, if it hasnt already, put things right as follows:
Provide a breakdown of how the lost offset benefit of £2,117.89 was calculated to 
Mrs G and Mr W. I understand the sum has already been paid.
Apply the refund of £301.81 in compound interest. Barclays should also provide a 
breakdown of how this was calculated.Refund three months interest from October 2020 to November 2020 totaling 
£500.06.
Pay compensation of £800 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs G and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman