DRN-2086045
The complaint
Mr D complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs administration of his credit card account.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr D made a payment to his HSBC credit card account by cheque. The 
cheque was from a different bank who Ill refer to as H. On the same day he also made a 
cash deposit into Hs account. HSBC initially credited Mr Ds account before reversing the 
payment around two weeks later.
H represented the cheque some days later. HSBC accepted the payment and credited 
Mr Ds account.
 
Mr D received his statement for May 2019 and paid the balance of his credit card account off 
in full. He then received a statement for June 2019 which showed the initial cheque payment 
had been reversed.
 
Mr D complained to HSBC and queried the reversed payment on his account. He said his 
credit card account had been credited twice from Hs account and as such he was missing 
£1,000 (the value of the cheque). 
HSBC responded and said this was because it had credited Mr Ds account twice in error. 
After further correspondence HSBC changed its position and said the reversal was due to 
the cheque being returned unpaid by H. HSBC later explained to Mr D that as H had 
represented the cheque soon after, it was then accepted and credited to his account. It 
acknowledged the delay in reversing the initial payment had caused confusion.
As an apology for the confusion caused, HSBC refunded the interest accrued by Mr D for the 
outstanding balance, and a total of £150 compensation. Mr D rejected HSBCs offer and 
referred the complaint to our service. He said he was still owed £1,000 as a result of the 
actions of HSBC and wanted compensation for the time and inconvenience the matter had 
caused.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. He 
found HSBC did not owe £1,000 to Mr D after considering both accounts. He said this led to 
Mr D unintentionally spending the £1,000 as the payment wasnt taken back till later that 
month. He found HSBCs offer of compensation for the distress caused was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr D disagreed. He said he hadnt spent the £1,000 nor had his cheque for £1,000 been 
returned unpaid. He provided evidence to show his total spend in April and May was less 
than £1,000 and referred to correspondence from both the banks involved.
Our investigator reviewed the additional information provided by Mr D but didnt change his 
recommendation. He found the reason for the discrepancy was because the two banks 
reversed the payments at different times  H reversed the payment immediately and HSBC 
at the end of the month. So he wasnt persuaded there was an error on the account.
As the matter remains unresolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill set out my reasons why below.
My role in this decision is to determine the actions of HSBC, not of H. So whilst I have 
considered the evidence provided by H, Ill only be looking at whether HSBC has acted fairly 
and reasonably in administering Mr Ds credit card account.
Ive considered the account ledgers provided by HSBC, alongside the statements for Mr Ds 
HSBC and H account for May 2019. The HSBC account shows two credits of £1,000 each to 
Mr Ds account against the same cheque number  one on 15 May and one on 17 May. It 
also shows a payment reversal of £1,000 on 30 May. So in total this account is in credit by 
£1,000. Hs account shows two debits of £1,000 against the same cheque number  one on 
14 May and one on 16 May. It also shows a credit of £1,000 for the same cheque on 14 
May. So in total Hs account is in debit by £1,000.
Ive checked the income and outgoings of each account for May 2019 and each adds up 
correctly. I cannot see a discrepancy here. H has also said that because Mr Ds cash deposit 
was made after the cheque was initially presented for clearance, it was returned due to 
insufficient funds.  So I am persuaded by this evidence which supports HSBCs latest 
position  the cheque was returned unpaid and later represented. 
Ive also considered Mr Ds personal ledgers which hes provided in a spreadsheet format. 
But in order to be persuaded that there was error in either HSBC or Hs accounts, I would 
need to see firm evidence that the transaction wasnt corrected by either HSBC or H. And as 
I havent seen that Im not persuaded there is £1,000 unaccounted for here.
HSBC hasnt said why it took around two weeks to make the reverse payment to Mr Ds 
account. But I dont think Mr D has lost out as a result of this delay. I say this because HSBC 
has refunded the interest accrued during this period, and Im satisfied this has put Mr D back 
in the position he would have been in, had the confusion around the payment and delay not 
occurred. 
Our investigator suggested Mr D had inadvertently spent £1,000 on his credit card account 
but Ive seen no evidence of this. Instead  for the reasons Ive explained above, I think 
Mr Ds credit card account was amended correctly with the reversed payment, albeit at a 
later point than Hs account. As such Im not going to make HSBC do anything further with 
regard to this matter.
Ive considered the refund of interest accrued that HSBC has offered on Mr Ds account, and 
its offer of £150 compensation for the confusion caused. I think this is a reasonable offer 
which fairly recognises the incorrect information HSBC gave to Mr D, and the confusion 
caused by the delayed reverse payment. So Im not going to make it pay any more 
compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer to settle the complaint is reasonable and 
so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman