DRN-2525416
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd wrongly advised her to take out an unsuitable life 
and critical illness policy  with a savings element  in 1996.
What happened
Her representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), said:
At the time of the advice Mrs P had no savings, there is no record of what her 
pension was, she had no investment experience and she was asked to commit 
nearly 100 per month during retirement to save for what exactly we have no idea
In addition to this Mrs P, when asked about her attitude to risk, confirmed she was 1 
on a scale of 1 to 4
We are not sure how exactly investing in the Managed Fund/the stock market is 
compatible with this
It Is clear that the client has been very badly advised and the sale wasnt suitable for 
many reasons
Zurich rejected Mrs P complaint, saying:
Mrs Ps financial objectives were recorded as financial security for her family and 
protection of lifestyle in the event of sickness or disability
She already had a whole of life plan in place which was meeting this need, but she 
had thought that she would receive a maturity value in 10 years, whereas the whole-
of-life plan was not guaranteed to provide a value and, in fact, due to the version she 
took, the cover would reduce on the tenth anniversary, unless monthly contributions 
were increased
It was therefore recommended that she replace her existing policy with this Lifestyle 
Plus Cash Plan
A replacement questionnaire was completed at the time and signed by Mrs P to 
confirm she understood and was happy with this replacement
The plan was designed to provide a cash sum if you are diagnosed as suffering from 
a critical illness, undergo a specified operation or die during the term of the plan. If no 
earlier claim is made on these events, then the plan will provide a cash sum at the 
end of the agreed term 
Mrs Ps plan had a sum assured of £38,000 and a 23-year term, to age 75, and 
included the waiver of contribution benefit
She received nearly £18,500 from the plan which provided such cover for 23 years. 
She also benefitted from the waiver of premium, saying more than £2,000 in 
premiums
Theres no evidence that she couldnt afford the £100 a month (approx.) premiums 
and clearly wanted the specified cover
A similar cover policy without a savings element would have been significantly more 
expensive
An investigator at this service broadly agreed with Zurichs conclusions, and did not feel 
there was sufficient evidence to say the recommended plan had been unsuitable for Mrs Ps 
circumstances and objectives.
Mrs Ps representative did not agree, saying:
She had a mortgage that was higher than the value of their property i.e. in negative 
equity
They had no savings or investments and Mrs P was advised to commit £100 a month 
for 23 years into a unit-linked investment plan despite having taken early retirement 
to start a new business. Anyone starting a new business will not be in a position of 
financial strength, backed up by the fact that she had to take partial surrenders 
during retirement
The plan recommended is actually a savings plan with a fixed term so how could one 
consider it suitable for someone wanting life cover or critical illness cover. It is a 
complete mismatch
Mrs Ps recorded risk profile is cautious, the lowest on the scale, yet the plan 
invested in the Managed fund i.e. clearly unsuitable
The savings element of the plan was substantial
The plan was set to mature when Mrs P was 75. A term of 23 years was chosen but 
there is absolutely nothing to justify this term
There is no rationale for the term of this plan while the fund and risk profile are totally 
incompatible
According to the illustration, the effect of charges means that the average annual 
growth rate would be reduced from 7.5% per annum to 5.2% per annum. This meant 
Mrs P would be paying in £27,036.96 in premiums just so that she could achieve 
£25,000 on the middle growth rate of 7.5%
Why would she want to take out a savings plan and risk her money on the stock 
market to make a loss?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is important to note that neither Mrs P nor her representative has stated what sort 
of financial product she wanted when she sought advice from Zurich in 1996. While her 
representative has made numerous submissions criticising the recommended product it has 
not once said what Mrs P was looking for i.e. whether this was a pure savings plan, life 
insurance, critical illness or a combination of all three. It is the responsibility of the CMC to 
do this.
This therefore makes it very hard to fully assess whether the recommendation was suitable 
for her objectives. Given this I can only rely on the advisors fact find/suitability letter which 
does set out in detail his understanding of why Mrs P approached Zurich.
In this document he clearly outlined that Mrs P was looking to replace her existing whole-of-
life policy (for reasons he outlined) and wanted a replacement form of life and critical illness 
policy for a limited time span, and ideally wanted a savings element as part of any plan.
Given her declared circumstances at the time, this seems an understandable and sensible 
set of priorities i.e. a life and critical illness policy for a set term with some savings 
component. This is what the advisor recommended.In this context, I dont accept many of the CMCs arguments about why such a plan, in 
principle, was not a reasonable recommendation. The fact find recorded Mr Ps regular 
income but made no mention of any assets so I dont accept the CMCs interpretation of their 
overall financial situation. The fact find also records that Mr and Mrs P had an endowment 
mortgage so I dont agree that the evidence indicates that the phrase negative equity fairly 
describes their situation.
Even so, it was not unreasonable for her to want to take out life and critical illness cover; nor 
for her want to make a modest monthly contribution to a savings pot designed to deliver an 
eventual pay-out, unlike her existing whole-of-life plan.
I have therefore considered whether the specific recommended policy was clearly unsuitable 
for her situation.
Firstly, I dont agree that the monthly premiums were obviously unaffordable; nor do I agree 
that her decision to take out several lump sums 10 years later supports this contention. 
Given the plan included a savings element, it meant Mrs P was able to draw on this pot 
without this affecting the life and critical illness cover provided throughout the period.
I do not think it was unsuitable to recommend a policy which would last until Mrs P was 75. 
She currently had a renewable whole-of-life policy where the premiums were due to rise 
substantially with no guarantee of ongoing affordability. Continuing with this policy could 
have meant her cover effectively running out before her 75th birthday and certainly without 
any potential pay-out (a WoL policy set up under maximum cover would have no savings 
element). 
By contrast, the premiums on her new policy were guaranteed for the next 23 years by which 
time she may have felt she no longer needed to provide for her dependents in the event of 
her death. Crucially, the proposed term of the policy was clear and, in my view, Mrs P was in 
a position to assess whether this met her objective and, if not, say so. While many 
customers will not necessarily be aware of many features of a recommended product, this 
was a simple issue: was Mrs P happy to take out a plan that provided cover only until she 
was 75?
In relation to the issue of investment risk, I simply dont agree with the CMCs interpretation. 
Firstly, Mrs Ps attitude to risk was explicitly in relation to investments, of which she had 
none. This was not primarily an investment policy and long-term insurance policies 
necessarily invest some of a customers premiums in risk-based assets irrespective of their 
attitude to risk, something one would expect a CMC to know. This seems to me to be 
understandable and reasonable. Secondly, Mrs Ps premiums in this case were solely 
invested in risk-free assets until her investment pot had built up a savings surplus. So the 
approach was suitable for someone who was averse to risk.
Finally, I have considered the savings element of the plan including the CMCs concerns 
about the charges. Firstly, I note that Zurich said this life and critical illness policy was 
cheaper than comparable plans because it included a savings element. While I have not 
checked the figures for this particular plan, I am aware that this was sometime/often the case 
and have no reason to doubt its assertion in this case.
I also note that Mrs P paid in very roughly around £25,000 over the 23 years and receiving 
more than £18,000 from several lump sums plus the final pay-out; so the CMC is factually 
incorrect in claiming she received a paltry £9,000. Given this policy provided substantial life 
and critical illness cover for 23 years, I dont think this indicates the potential return was 
insignificant or not worthwhile. As such, I dont think the illustrated growth rates, taking 
account of charges, showed this was not a suitable recommendation. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman