DRN-3127793
The complaint
Ms J complains that loans she took out with Loans 2 Go Limited were unaffordable and 
should not have been provided.
What happened
Ms J is represented in bringing this complaint but for clarity Ill refer to Ms J in relation to their 
representations.
Ms J took out a loan (Loan 1) in March 2016 for £500. The total repayable was £1,160 over 
12 months. She settled this loan early.
Ms J took out a further loan (Loan 2) in July 2019 for £250. The total repayable was 
£1,028.52 over 18 months. She withdrew from this agreement soon after.
Ms J says the loans were unaffordable and should not have been provided in the 
circumstances. She says she should have been advised of alternative means of dealing with 
her circumstances such as being signposted to a debt charity.
Loans 2 Go says it undertook thorough affordability assessments including a review of her 
bank statements and credit record. It also said interest was applied in line with the 
agreement.
When Ms J complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. In relation to 
Loan 1 they said the information Loans 2 Go had at the time of lending would have shown 
she was already experiencing money problems, that it was unlikely Ms J would be able to 
sustainably repay the debt and it was increasing her indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable. In relation to Loan 2 they concluded that based on the information available 
Loans 2 Go ought to have undertaken further checks which would have likely shown Ms J 
couldnt sustainably repay it.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree  it said in relation to Loan 1 that whilst Ms J had some debts in a 
debt management plan, others were being well maintained. And it didnt see anything of 
concern in her bank statements. It pointed out Ms J had repaid the loan successfully. In 
relation to Loan 2 it said it had calculated Ms J had a monthly disposable income of £225.10 
after the repayments (of £57.14) and that she was only behind one repayment. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit 
agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied Ms J would be able 
to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. For 
example, their financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and 
cost of credit they have applied for would also be considered. 
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to have been
In relation to Loan 1, I agree the information Loans 2 Go had at the time of lending indicated 
that Ms J was already struggling to repay her existing debts. In particular, her credit file at 
the time which Loans 2 Go reviewed showed:
A County Court Judgement applied against Ms J in October 2015.
Five months of arrears on one credit card
A debt management plan on a credit card for over year - the balance in the past year 
had only decreased by £30.
A debt management plan on a loan - in the past six months the balance had 
increased. 
On both debt management plans Ms J was paying £1 a month towards the balance.
This is inconsistent with Loans 2 Gos calculations in regard to Ms Js disposable income. 
Given the above I think it was unlikely Ms J would have been able to repay this debt 
sustainably and this loan further increased her indebtedness. I dont think the fact that she 
did repay this loan in itself shows that it was affordable. This may well have come at the 
expense of further borrowing, falling behind on her existing financial commitments, or 
prolonging her existing financial problems.
In relation to Loan 2, the information Loans 2 Go had at the time of lending showed Ms J had 
one month of arrears on a hire purchase agreement (monthly due £189) and had taken out 
two short-term credit loans. 
Loans 2 Go had calculated that Ms Js monthly disposable income was £282.24  I think it 
ought to have realised that this was inconsistent with Ms Js arrears of £189. Its also 
inconsistent with the loan amount itself of £250. So, in the circumstances I think it would 
have been proportionate to undertake further checks to ensure the repayments were 
affordable and sustainable for Ms J.
Ms Js credit file at the time showed that in the six months leading up the lending she had 
taken out six high-cost, short-term loans and one high cost credit loan. Given the nature of 
these types of loans, this indicates that Ms Js financial situation wasnt stable and that she 
was regularly borrowing to meet her day to day expenses and repay her existing debt. This 
loan would have significantly increased Ms Js indebtedness and, on the evidence available, 
I dont think it was likely Ms J would have been able to sustainably repay it. 
I understand Ms J withdrew from this agreement soon after and so the interest shes paid is lower than on the agreement. Ive taken this into account when deciding what redress is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think I need to comment on how the interest 
has been applied as I will be addressing interest as part of the redress here.
Putting things right
When considering how to put matters right, Ive taken into account the fact Ms J has had the 
benefit of the loan funds. It isnt possible to put Ms J back in the position she would be in had 
Loans 2 Go not provided the lending, so I think a fair way to put matters right is for it to 
remove any interest or charges applied to the loans and amend Ms Js credit file to remove 
any adverse information.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Loans to Go Limited should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Ms J has paid to date.
2. Where the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Loans to Go Limited 
should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But 
if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to 
Ms J and 8% simple interest* should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms J credit file as a result of the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman