DRN-4190108
The complaint
Ms D, through her representative, complains that Stagemount Limited, trading as 
Quidmarket, lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms D was approved for two loans by Quidmarket and repaid them in line with the 
agreements. The loan table is a summary of her borrowing. 
Date 
takenLoan amount TermInstalment 
amountDate 
settledTotal repaid
106/07/2020 £300 4 £115.76 23/10/2020 £463.04
204/11/2020 £400 6 £123.95 23/04/2021 £743.70
Ms Ds representative complained on her behalf, and Stagemount responded on 
29 July 2022. In its final response letter (FRL) it explained all it had done in reviewing Ms Ds 
applications, including obtaining credit searches, and gave reasons why it did not consider it 
needed to uphold her complaint. As a goodwill gesture it offered to remove the two loans 
from her credit file.
 
Ms Ds representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our adjudicators considered it all and did not think that Stagemount should have lent to Ms D 
at all. It objected and submitted its reasons why  all of which I have reviewed. The 
unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Ms D could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have considered several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ds 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms D. These factors include:
Ms D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms D. 
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Ms D could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms D was able to repay 
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D declared an income of around £1,500 a month for each of the loan applications. She 
declared outgoings which included credit commitments and expenses and these were 
increased by Quidmarket as part of its affordability assessment. Still the expenditure figures 
were less than the income figure and so in relation to pounds and pence calculations the 
loans looked affordable.
The facts were  on Quidmarkets own analysis  that Ms D had one credit card in default 
and had not made a payment on it for two years, a current account for which she was in an 
arrangement to pay and another credit card which had a status of delinquent. Plus, she had 
several other credit cards with outstanding amounts on them. She had a mortgage. Ms D 
was paying for an unsecured loan at £109 a month already.
 
The deciding factor in this complaint seems to turn on the credit searches Quidmarket 
carried out, the information it had at the time it approved each loan and whether all the 
information taken together meant it ought not to have approved the loans. 
Im aware that these loans were for Ms D who was a new customer and Im aware that the 
loan values were relatively low. But these are high cost credit loans and would have had an 
impact on Ms Ds monthly commitments for 4 and 6 months respectively for loans 1 and 2. 
Having reviewed it all I have decided to uphold the complaint. I have considered both sets of 
submissions very carefully before coming to this decision. And I explain here. 
In relation to one of the defaulted accounts  a credit card  Quidmarket said to us after 
receiving the adjudicators view:
but from the facts presented by the CRA file it was reasonable for us to presume 
that she would continue not making payments to this card.So, this part of Quidmarkets submissions is predicated on it knowing of a significant 
outstanding (albeit historic) debt and stating that it was reasonable to proceed on the basis 
that Ms D would not be paying this down. I am not persuaded by that line of argument. And it 
does demonstrate to me that Quidmarket was very aware of it at the time. 
And I am persuaded that our adjudicators calculations of the minimum repayments for the 
outstanding credit card debts (around £8,700 on each occasion) would have meant that 
Ms D was committed to a further £437 a month to cover those off. This plus the mortgage 
cost of £546 each month (which was not a joint account) together with an outstanding loan 
account and one delinquent credit card all leads me to conclude that Ms D did not need the 
burden of additional debt. 
Ive thought about Quidmarkets submission that Ms D was in a household and therefore it 
considered it could reasonably assume that the other householder would contribute towards 
the costs and absorb some of the expenses of the household. But there is no evidence that 
Quidmarket knew of this or, if it did proceed on this basis, that it had checked this before 
doing so.
Looking at the FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook  CONC- then part of rule 5.2A.12 R says:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, 
income received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by 
another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to 
the customer to make repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to 
repay (wholly or partly) using them;
The credit search shows that the mortgage was not a joint account. And theres no evidence 
to show me that Ms Ds partner contributed to it and Id not expect her partner to pay for her 
credit card bills or the other loans taken out in her name. So, Id not expect Quidmarket to 
have assumed that either. 
I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Ms D at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms D in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right for Ms D, I direct that Quidmarket should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result of loans 1 and 2; and
add interest at 8% per year simple interest* on the above refunded sums from the 
date they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct that Stagemount Limited, trading as 
Quidmarket, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman