DRN-2636001
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund unauthorised 
transactions under the chargeback scheme. 
What happened
Mr B made payments to a gambling site he found online. Once he checked his bank 
statement, he noticed unauthorised payments had been taken from his account. So, he 
raised this with Nat West.
Nat West initially told Mr B they had no dispute rights against gambling payments. When Mr 
B complained, Nat West admitted this information was incorrect. They offered Mr B £25 for 
the misinformation. Nat West went on to explain that they cant help Mr B with the disputed 
payments  and thats because the gambling site in question didnt hold a regulatory licence 
and therefore, they couldnt raise a chargeback claim.
Unhappy with their response, Mr B brought the complaint to our service. Mr B provided 
details from the Gambling Commission which confirmed the gambling site in question didnt 
hold a licence to operate in the UK. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary he said Mr B authorised the 
transactions and he didnt think the payments would have flagged with Nat West as unusual, 
so he was satisfied Nat West allowed them to be made. He also explained that he thought it 
would be unlikely for a chargeback claim to succeed because Mr B paid for a service and 
received it.
Mr B didnt agree. He provided screenshots of the payments to show they were taken in a 
different currency to pound sterling, and the extra amounts which were taken in addition to 
the payments he did authorise. The investigator explained that as the gambling site was 
based outside of the UK, its most likely that the additional payments were for a currency fee. 
Mr B remained unhappy. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
great disappointment to Mr B so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Theres no dispute Mr B paid money to an overseas gambling site. I appreciate Mr B says he 
didnt know the gambling site was based overseas, but I cant fairly hold Nat West 
responsible for that. Mr B has admitted he authorised the transactions, so I consider it 
reasonable Nat West allowed them to be processed. 
What is in dispute is the additional fees which have been charged to Mr Bs account  its 
these he says he didnt authorise. It appears these fees are currency fees as the money 
Mr B paid to the gambling site wasnt in pounds sterling. Mr B said he wasnt aware the 
money he was spending wasnt in pounds sterling. Ive been able to review the website in 
question and considered the information shown at the time Mr B was making the 
transactions. Ive seen a screen which allowed a currency choice to be made  so I can 
understand why Mr B thought he was using pounds sterling if this was the option he chose. 
However, the website also explains that the customer  in this case, Mr B  would be 
transferred to a crypto exchange to buy cryptocurrencies. Nonetheless, Im considering Nat 
Wests actions here and whether they did enough to help Mr B once he raised a dispute. So, 
Im not able to comment on the particulars of the website Mr B found himself using.
Mr B asked Nat West to use the chargeback scheme to see whether he could get his money 
back. Nat West initially told Mr B they had no dispute rights against gambling payments. As 
Nat West have since admitted, that information is incorrect. I think its helpful to start by 
summarising what chargeback is and how it works. Its a process for resolving disputes 
between card issuers (here, Nat West) and merchants (the gambling site). The chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary code which banks can sign up to. Its run by the card scheme not Nat 
West. And chargeback claims are processed and decided based on the card schemes rules.
 
Customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and Nat West dont have to attempt 
it just because a customer asks them to. But Id expect them to try if theres good reason to 
do so. When considering a chargeback request, Nat West are bound by the rules of the card 
scheme. They arent obliged to submit a claim if they dont think the case fits within the rules, 
or if they think the claim is unlikely to be successful. Each case depends on the individual 
circumstances. What I need to decide here is whether Nat West acted fairly and reasonably 
in relation to Mr Bs chargeback requests. 
The card schemes rules contain numerous reason codes, under which claims can be 
submitted. The reason code most suited to Mr Bs scenario and the circumstances of this 
complaint would be services not received. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that Nat 
Wests decision not to pursue the chargeback was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Each reason code has criteria which must be met in order for the claim to be accepted by
the card scheme. These include details of the specific evidence which is required to support
the claim. Ive carefully about the services not received scenario. Its reasonable to suggest 
that Mr B did receive a service to some degree  Mr Bs complaint is about extra money 
being taken rather than not being able to use the website at all. I wouldnt expect Nat West 
to pursue a claim which they knew to have little prospect of success. So, I think their 
decision not to take this further was reasonable.
Ive considered the fact that Mr B says the website wasnt regulated and hes been able to 
prove that through his own investigations with the Gambling Commission. I fully appreciate 
Mr Bs comments surrounding this, but there isnt a chargeback code which specifically 
covers this scenario, so Nat West couldnt have proceeded with a chargeback on that basis. 
I also dont think the payments as a whole could have been considered as fraud, because 
Mr B admits that he did authorise them himself. While there are elements to the payments 
which Mr B doesnt accept, it wouldnt have been necessary for Nat West to stop the 
transactions being made  because the correct authentication and authorisation was met.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr B and the situation in which he finds himself. But, Im 
only looking at the way in which Nat West dealt with his chargeback request. And, based on 
the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that their decision not to attempt the chargeback was 
reasonable  and thats because its unlikely it would have been successful based on the 
circumstances of whats happened here.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr B. But, for the reasons above, I dont thinkNat West have done anything wrong here. So I cant fairly ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman