DRN-3195841
The complaint
Mr L complains about a decision by Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) to reject a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr L made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr L says that he was quoted a sum of £64 plus VAT and labour, to fix his car but the final 
bill was much more, and the garage didnt seek approval for that amount.
The garage say that they called Mr L, told him the repair would be more expensive and 
gained his approval before completing the work.
I dont think Sainsburys have done anything wrong here as I dont think they had sufficient 
evidence there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.  
Whilst theres no dispute that the original quotation was for £64, there is a dispute about 
whether the more expensive work was agreed to or not. Mr L says it wasnt and the garage 
says otherwise. 
It seems that on investigation the work required was more detailed than was originally 
quoted for and would therefore always have been more expensive. And Im persuaded that 
its most likely Mr L would have rejected the work and asked the garage to return the car to 
its original condition, rather than accept a repair he hadnt authorised. I dont think there was 
sufficient evidence that hed been under duress to accept the work, for Sainsburys to take 
any action.
Overall, Im not persuaded Sainsburys have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman