DRN-3633129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about the way esure Services Limited renewed their home 
insurance policy. They say esure caused the policy to be voided.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him only.
Reference to esure includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr S took out a home insurance policy in February 2019. It was underwritten by an 
insurer Ill call U. It was arranged and administered by esure. The policy renewed in 
2020 and 2021.
In June 2021, Mr S got in touch with U after his home was damaged by fire. It found 
his home had been undergoing renovations since November 2020. He and his family 
had moved out around that time and were renting elsewhere.
U said Mr S had misrepresented answers to two questions about the way the 
property was occupied when he renewed the policy in February 2021 and voided the 
policy back to that time.
Mr S complained to esure about its role in the renewal process. Amongst other 
things, he said it hadnt made clear that he needed to take action at the renewal, 
including reviewing information hed previously given.
esure said it had been clear in its communication with Mr S about what he needed to 
do. It didnt think it had caused his policy to be voided.
Our investigator thought esure had acted fairly when it renewed the policy. Mr S 
disagreed and made a number of points. An agreement couldnt be reached, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I have taken into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Both parties have provided extensive and detailed submissions. Whilst Ive read and taken it 
all into account, Ill only comment on the points I think are relevant when reaching a fair 
outcome to this dispute. Thats a reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
This complaint is about esure and whether it acted fairly and reasonably when it arranged 
and administered the policy. It wont take into account any acts or omissions by U, as they 
have been considered under a separate complaint against U. I found U acted fairly and 
reasonably when it voided the policy.
When arranging the renewal, esure was required to give Mr S information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. That includes explaining and sufficiently highlighting to Mr S steps he 
must take in order to fulfil his duty under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer  as well as the consequences of not doing so.
These requirements apply to the renewal process generally. So long as the process overall 
fulfils these requirements, it wont necessarily mean each and every email or other 
communication must include explanations and warnings related to CIDRA.
In summary, at renewal in February 2021, U wanted to know whether any of the information 
Mr S had previously given had changed. It was esures role during the renewal process to 
find that out from Mr S and let U know.
Much of the dispute focuses on an email esure sent to Mr S in January 2021, around a 
month prior to the renewal. Mr S doesnt think the email made it sufficiently clear that he had 
to take active steps as part of the renewal process.
Ive looked at the email and thought about how clear it was about what Mr S needed to do.
It begins by highlighting that the policy will renew automatically and sets out the cost.
In the middle, highlighted in bold, it says 3 quick steps and youre all sorted. Those steps 
include: signing into the online account (with a link to click), reading the documents, 
checking all details are correct, and how to make any corrections.
Toward the end it says thats all, you dont need to do anything else.
Mr S has argued that the email didnt require him to take action under Section 2 of CIDRA. 
He says the request to check all your details are correct is vague and not sufficiently 
specific. And the email didnt contain any warnings about the consequences of providing 
inaccurate information. He also says the email was unclear and could reasonably be 
interpreted in other ways.
CIDRA requires an insurer, amongst other things, to ask clear and specific questions of a 
consumer when entering into a contract of insurance. The focus of CIDRA is on the 
information provided by a consumer which the insurer relies upon to decide whether to offer 
insurance or not  and on what terms.
I dont think it applies to other communications between the parties which the insurer isnt 
going to rely on when entering into a contract of insurance.
In this case, the questions U says Mr S made a misrepresentation in response to are about 
the occupancy of his home. U relied on the answers to those questions when offering to 
renew the policy. Ive considered that in more detail in the complaint against U.
U isnt arguing that Mr S made a misrepresentation in response to esures email or the 
requests within it. Mr S isnt being asked questions or to confirm information in the email.So I dont think CIDRA is directly relevant to the email itself, or esures request that Mr S log 
into his account and check his details are correct. And that means these things didnt need 
to meet the conditions specified in CIDRA. But they did need to be clear, fair and not 
misleading to make Mr S reasonably aware of what he needed to do.
esures email was a covering note letting Mr S know the new premium and directing him to 
his online account to, amongst other things, check his renewal documents and details.
Im satisfied the email is sufficiently clear that Mr S should take steps prior to the renewal  
sign into his account, check the documents and details and, if anything needs changing, 
update it. Whilst it included other information, such as the price of the policy, Im not 
persuaded the email can reasonably be interpreted to mean theres no need to log into the 
account and/or no need to check the documents or details. It says the policy will 
automatically renew but its clear Mr S must take steps as part of the renewal process.
Mr S has made similar arguments about the online account itself. He says he didnt log into it 
at the relevant time. But, based on how it appears having logged into it more recently, he 
doesnt think its sufficiently clear.
From what Ive seen, I agree the account could do more to point a consumer to the key 
documents and remind them of their duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation  and the consequences of not doing so. But overall, Im satisfied its 
sufficiently clear. And Im mindful that even if it had been clearer at the relevant time, that 
wouldnt have made a difference as Mr S didnt log into it.
The email directed Mr S to read this email and your documents  check youve got the right 
level of cover for your needs and that all your details are correct. So I think its clear that one 
of the things the consumer should do is read their documents.
The online account has a number of tabs, the second of which is labelled my documents. 
Had he logged into his account, Mr S would have seen this. Contained within that tab are all 
the policy documents. The first of which, the renewal invitation includes a prominently 
highlighted message. It explains clearly that its important to check the renewal schedule 
and update any information which is inaccurate. It also explains that not doing so could 
cause Mr S to become uninsured or have a claim rejected. Im satisfied that sets out clearly 
what Mr S should do and the risks of not doing it.
Mr S has pointed out that the email asked him to check his details  and the first tab is 
labelled cover details. That relates to the type of insurance, the sums insured and excesses 
etc. He argues a consumer could understand that tab alone amounts to the details the 
email asks to be checked. I think this point is academic. Mr S didnt log into his account, so 
whether its possible for a consumer to misunderstand the instructions once in the account 
isnt directly relevant to this dispute. But whilst I agree the online account could do more to 
help consumers overall, the email does ask them to read their documents  and if they do, 
its clear they must check the renewal schedule, update any inaccurate information within it, 
and face significant consequences if they dont.
Ive considered the contents of the renewal schedule itself separately as I understand U is 
responsible for it.
Im satisfied esure clearly directed Mr S to his online account and the relevant documents. 
Once there, it explained and highlighted the importance of reviewing key information and set 
out the potential consequences of not doing so.In my view, the renewal process overall amounted to providing clear, fair and not misleading 
information. It provided sufficient explanations about the steps Mr S had to follow in order to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation  and warnings about the 
consequences of not doing so.
Because of this, Im satisfied esure treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when it arranged and 
administered the policy.
esure has pointed out that after it renewed the policy, it sent Mr S a second email. This email 
prominently repeated the importance of checking the information in the schedule was correct 
 and the possible consequences if it was incorrect. By doing this, esure took further steps to 
make Mr S aware of what he needed to do and the importance of doing it.
So even if Id found the first email and/or the online account wasnt sufficiently clear, I would 
find the second email was sufficiently clear  and provided Mr S an opportunity to correct 
any inaccurate information. Im satisfied esure acted fairly and reasonably when it sent this 
second email.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman