DRN-4472383
The complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2023, Mr A was flying to a country Ill call J. Unfortunately, the flight was unable to 
land and so it flew back to the airport. Mr A says he wasnt able to rebook another flight and 
therefore, he felt he had no choice but to cancel his pre-booked hotel in J. He made a claim 
for the costs of the cancelled hotel.
Great Lakes turned down Mr As claim. Thats because it said the policy specifically 
excluded claims which were caused by the provider of any part of the booked trip failing to 
supply the booked service or transport. In this case, as the reason for Mr As claim was the 
airlines failure to land at his destination, Great Lakes concluded the claim was excluded by 
the policy terms.
Mr A was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
the claim was covered by any section of Mr As policy. So she thought it had been fair for 
Great Lakes to turn down Mr As claim.
Mr A disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes 
to turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr A that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within this 
decision though, I havent commented on each point hes made and nor do our rules require 
me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr As policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether I think Great 
Lakes treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr As policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Great Lakes. Our investigator considered whether Mr As trip was covered 
under the cancellation section of the policy. In my view, Mr As trip was actually cut short. I 
say that because at the point the plane had to turn around mid-air, Mr A had travelled to the 
airport, had boarded the plane and his flight was underway. So it seems to me that his trip 
had already begun and actually had to be curtailed as a result of the flight being unable to 
land in J.
In any event, Ive looked at whether the claim would be covered under either the cancellation 
or curtailment sections of the policy. So Ive looked at the specific, defined events Great 
Lakes has listed as covered under these sections of the contract.
The policy says that Great Lakes will cover the cancellation of a trip, if its cancelled for one 
of the following reasons:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged 
to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death. 
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your 
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay. 
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being 
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity). 
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under current 
legislation applicable within your home country.  
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the start of 
your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500. 
f) the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office issue a directive advising against all, 
or all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or 
hurricane.
Cover for Cutting Short Your Trip is provided if a policyholders trip has to be curtailed for 
one of the following reasons:
a)an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or any
person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or advisory 
capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during your 
trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence is
required by the Police in connection with such events.
Both the cancellation and cutting short your trip sections include a list of events which Great 
Lakes has decided to specifically exclude from cover. Ive set out below what I consider to 
be the key exclusion in the circumstances of this complaint:
What is not covered
failure by the provider of any part of the booked trip to supply the service or transport 
(whether as the result of error, insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, omission, default or 
otherwise), unless the event is specifically covered by this policy. You should direct any 
claim in this case to the provider involved.
I think the policy terms and conditions clearly set out the insured events Great Lakes has 
chosen to cover. No travel insurance policy provides cover for every eventuality and we 
wont generally tell an insurer what risks it should and shouldnt cover. 
In this case, Mr A feels that his claim should be accepted and settled in line with the 
cancellation cover for the abandonment of a trip after a flight has been delayed by more than 
12 hours. Abandonment cover applies if the departure of a policyholders first outward or final inward international travel is delayed by more than 12 hours due to strike or industrial 
action; adverse weather; failure of air traffic control systems or mechanical breakdown. Ive 
considered this point very carefully. 
But I dont think I could fairly or reasonably conclude that Mr As claim is covered by this 
particular clause. Thats because theres no evidence that the departure of Mr As flight was 
delayed by more than 12 hours. Theres no suggestion that the flight didnt take off on time. 
Instead, its unfortunate that it seems Mr As flight couldnt land at the point of arrival. And it 
also isnt clear why the flight couldnt land or why it had to turn around. So it isnt clear that 
the flight turned around because of bad weather, or mechanical failure, for example. Nor do I 
think Mr As claim falls within the scope of any of nthe other insured events Great Lakes has 
listed under the cancellation and cutting short your trip sections of the policy.
And, based on all Ive seen; I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to rely on the specific 
exclusion Ive set out above either. Whether Mr As trip was cancelled or curtailed, the 
reason he wasnt able to continue with his trip and incurred lost hotel costs was because his 
flight couldnt land and had to turn back. I dont find Great Lakes acted unreasonably when it 
concluded that this was a failure of the airline to supply Mr A with the service hed booked. 
And I think the policy makes it clear that Great Lakes wont pay claims which happen 
because of the failure of a transport provider to supply any part of the booked trip. 
So despite my natural sympathy with Mr As position because I appreciate this situation was 
entirely outside of his control, I dont find Great Lakes acted unfairly when it concluded that 
his claim wasnt covered. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly direct Great Lakes to accept and settle Mr As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman