DRN-4486222
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited did not manage his pension fund in line with his 
expectations and hes suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr B had a personal pension policy with Legal & General (L&G). This was a Buy-Out Plan 
which commenced after his benefits were transferred away from a previous employers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS). The policy commenced in 1986 and was invested in 
the With Profits fund.
As a result of a business acquisition, Mr Bs personal pension was transferred from L&G to 
ReAssure at the end of 2019 and so ReAssure is responsible for his policy and for dealing 
with this complaint. Ill refer to ReAssure throughout this decision.
Mr B says that, given how long his policy had been in place (from around 1986), he was 
expecting it to be worth in excess of £320,000. He says thats in line with the amount former 
colleagues were receiving from their pension policies held with other providers. And he 
thinks its also in line with stock market growth over the period since the policy was taken 
out. He says the policy has not been managed in line with his expectations. 
Mr B says his policy had a feature known as a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). The 
value of his pension, as shown on his annual statement dated March 2021, was almost 
£79,000. Mr B says ReAssure had to increase this in order to cover the GMP amount. He 
hasnt been able to take any tax free cash and his pension payments are much less than he 
wouldve expected. He complained to ReAssure.
ReAssure looked into his complaint. It said there were many factors that needed to be taken 
into consideration as the fund value was not solely down to fund performance. It said, for 
example, that the age, length of service, amount transferred, continuing contributions and 
other factors would all impact on fund value. ReAssure said it had operated Mr Bs policy 
under the terms and conditions which applied and it had provided an appropriate top up to 
cover the cost of the guarantees he was entitled to. It did not accept it had done anything 
wrong.
Mr B did not agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He said Mr B had held a with profits policy. There were a number of factors 
which affected the rate of return including the amount of risk taken. He said he hadnt seen 
any evidence to support what Mr B said about mismanagement of his pension and he wasnt 
aware that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had any concerns over the 
way ReAssure handled the pension fund.
Our investigator said it wasnt helpful to draw comparisons with how Mr Bs colleagues 
pensions had performed since there were a number of factors involved including age, length 
of service and contributions made. So, our investigator wasnt persuaded, on balance, that 
ReAssure had mismanaged the pension fund. 
Because Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)
First, Id just explain what a GMP is. Mr B was a member of an OPS which chose to opt-out 
of the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). SERPS was a top-up to the basic 
state pension payable at the employees state pension age. Because the OPS opted out of 
SERPS it was required to agree to pay its employees a minimum level of benefits at state 
pension age. This was known as the GMP and was to ensure that employees didnt lose out 
as a result of the OPS being contracted out of SERPS. 
When the OPS transferred away the benefits, the Buy-out Policy was taken out with L&G. 
Under the terms of the Buy-Out policy L&G was obliged to agree to pay Mr B an annual 
pension at least equal to the GMP when he reached age 65 years, irrespective of the value 
of his pension funds at that time. So, L&G and now ReAssure were obliged to honour the 
GMP. 
ReAssure has agreed to honour the GMP amount. In order to do that it says its had to uplift 
the value of the policy by a significant sum. The amount transferred to the new provider was 
over £145,000. Whereas the value of Mr Bs policy at that time was just over £83,000. So, 
Im satisfied ReAssure has agreed to comply with its obligations to cover the GMP 
entitlement as required under the terms of the policy. 
Nevertheless, Mr B argues that if ReAssure had managed his fund correctly, or invested it in 
a better fund it would have been worth a lot more. So, Ive thought further about what Mr B 
has said.
Annual Increases added to the Policy
The Buy-Out policy was invested in the L&G With Profits fund. Mr B didnt make any further 
contributions to the policy. He received annual statements for the policy. Ive looked at the 
annual statements (including statements issued in 2004, 2006, 2011, 2016, 2018 and 2019). 
These show the information that was provided to Mr B about his policy and how it was 
performing.
All of these statements indicate that Mr Bs policy was invested in the With Profits fund. They 
also show that the value of the policy increased each year by 5%. This was referred to as 
CAI (which means Contractual Annual Interest).
The terms and conditions for the policy indicate that CAI was a non-discretionary addition. 
So, each year Mr B was entitled to this payment irrespective of how markets were 
performing. 
The terms and conditions also stated that the With Profits fund would participate in the 
profits of L&G from time to time and bonuses would be declared annually by L&G. However 
where the policy provided for a GMP, L&G reserved the right to declare a lower bonus on all 
buy-out policies than those declared on other L&G pension contracts. And, where a 
guaranteed increase, such as a CAI, was greater than any annual bonus that might 
otherwise be payable only the guaranteed increase would be paid. Theres no indication that Mr B received any annual bonuses, in addition to the CAI, during 
the periods covered by the statements Ive looked at. As mentioned above annual bonuses 
were not guaranteed under the terms of the policy.
I can see, from the statements Ive examined, that increases of 5% have been applied to
Mr Bs policy each year. 
ReAssure has now provided further information which shows that after the policy was 
transferred to it on 31 December 2019, an increase of 5% was applied on the 31 December 
2020 and again on 31 December 2021. ReAssure also says that, in addition, an annual 
bonus of £455.01 was paid on 31 December 2020 and again on 31 December 2021. Mr B 
decided to transfer the policy away in March 2022  so no further bonus was payable after 
that date. 
Having reviewed the information provided by ReAssure, Ive not seen any evidence that 
indicates it failed to manage Mr Bs pension in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
or that it has otherwise acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way that it managed the policy. 
Mr B says he wouldve expected his policy to grow at the same rate as stock market 
performance over the period - which he says averaged 10%. But, having considered the 
information provided annually to Mr B, Im satisfied ReAssure provided enough information 
to make him aware that the value of his policy, and the annual increases he was receiving, 
were not reflective of changes in the stock market.  He was receiving an annual increase of 
5% each year.
Although Mr B told us he didnt take a lot of notice of the statements he was getting and 
assumed that his policy was growing in line with the stock market, Im satisfied, on balance, 
he would have had enough information to query the annual increases he was receiving - 
especially if he thought, as he now says, that the policy should have been increasing in line 
with stock market performance. The statements showed that the annual increase was 5%. 
Theres no evidence he challenged the return he was receiving prior to the date when he 
made his complaint. 
The Performance of the With Profits Fund
Mr B says that if the policy had been invested in a better performing fund it would have 
been worth a lot more. 
As mentioned above the annual statements hed been sent showed that his policy was 
invested in the With Profits fund from inception. The statements also indicated it was 
transferred into the LG With-Profits Fund within ReAssure with effect from September 2020. 
It is the case that under the terms of his policy Mr B was entitled, subject to what Ive said 
above, to annual and terminal bonuses. But these were not guaranteed. 
There are specific rules that have to be followed regarding bonus declarations for a With 
Profits fund. These are set out in the PPFM (Principles and Practices of Financial 
Management). ReAssure publishes its PPFM online. It sets out the approach taken by 
ReAssure to settling its annual bonus rates. 
Decisions about bonus declarations are taken by the board of ReAssure after considering 
advice received from its With Profits actuary. ReAssure takes account of a number of factors 
which include (but are not limited to) historic returns, bonuses previously declared, the effect 
of smoothing, running costs, the effect of any guarantees written into policies and various 
other adjustments. These are all explained in the PPFM. As our investigator said theres nothing to indicate that the Regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), has expressed any concerns about ReAssures management of this fund.
Having considered everything here, including the terms and conditions for the policy, the 
annual statements and the information set out in the PPFM, Im satisfied, on balance, 
ReAssure didnt do anything wrong, or that it has otherwise acted unfairly or unreasonably, 
when it increased the value of Mr Bs pension in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Although Mr B has told us that other colleagues (who he says were in the same situation as 
himself) have obtained much greater returns from other providers, its not possible to make 
accurate or fair comparisons of this nature. There are many factors which can impact on the 
value of a pension fund  including for example age, length of service, value at the date of 
transfer and any decisions which Mr Bs colleagues may have made about how the funds 
were subsequently invested. So, I agree with our investigator when he said that comparisons 
of this nature are not a fair way to assess investment performance.
From the information provided to me Im persuaded, on balance, that ReAssure has 
managed Mr Bs pension in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Its also 
confirmed to us that, as it was required to do, it uplifted the policy amount to the level 
required to honour the GMP Mr B was entitled to be paid when he transferred the pension to 
another provider. I think that was fair and reasonable. I dont require ReAssure to have to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman