DRN-3878208
The complaint
Mr H complains that MBNA Limited declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 for a full refund of his purchase of a defective sofa.
What happened
In 2021 Mr H bought a sofa and paid for it using his MBNA credit card. The sofa was 
delivered to his home in November of that year. In January 2022 it broke down, in that the 
electronically-operated decliner stopped working. It is not in dispute that this is a fault for 
which the supplier is responsible  and under section 75, MBNA too. This complaint is about 
the appropriate remedy.
In February 2022 the supplier sent a repairman to Mr Hs home to fix the fault. He was 
unable to fix it on that occasion because he had to order some parts that were needed. 
There is a dispute about whether or not this visit counts as a repair of the sofa for the 
purposes of section 24 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which says that the supplier is 
entitled to one attempt to repair defective goods before the consumer can exercise his right 
to reject the goods and receive a refund. Mr H says that this visit was an attempt to repair 
the sofa which failed, and so he is entitled to return the sofa and be refunded. In support of 
that argument, he cited a written memo or report by the repairman in which he had written 
I have attempted to repair but with no luck. MBNA did not agree, and declined to refund 
Mr H on the ground that the obtaining the parts and then fitting them counted as part of the 
first repair attempt, notwithstanding that this would happen on a second visit to his home. 
Our adjudicator agreed with MBNAs stance.
After that first visit, the supplier instructed a third party to repair the sofa. That party emailed 
Mr H several times in order to arrange this, but Mr H objected. He insists that the supplier 
should carry out the repair itself, as his contract was with them. Our adjudicator was not 
persuaded by this argument, and said that the supplier was entitled to use a sub-contractor 
and anything done on its behalf would be treated in law as having been done by the supplier.
Mr H also argues that due to the passage of time since he reported the fault, the supplier 
has not carried out the repair within a reasonable time, as required by the Consumer Rights 
Act. That would mean that he is entitled to reject the sofa whether or not there has been one 
attempt at repairing it.
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Section 24(5) to (7) of the Consumer Rights Act says, so far as relevant:
(5) A consumer who has  the final right to reject may only do so in one of these 
situations
(a) after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not conform to the 
contract;
(b) 
(c) the consumer has required the trader to repair or replace the goods, but 
the trader is in breach of the requirement of section 23(2)(a) to do so within 
a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer.
(6) There has been a repair or replacement for the purposes of subsection (5)(a) if
(a) the consumer has requested or agreed to repair or replacement of the 
goods (whether in relation to one fault or more than one), and
(b) the trader has delivered goods to the consumer, or made goods available 
to the consumer, in response to the request or agreement.
(7) For the purposes of subsection (6) goods that the trader arranges to repair at the 
consumer's premises are made available when the trader indicates that the repairs 
are finished.
In this case, the repairman who attended in February did not indicate that the repairs were 
finished. So I am satisfied that this visit did not amount to a repair within the meaning of the 
Act.
The sentence from the repairmans report, quoted above, needs to be understood in the 
context that he had determined that he needed to order new parts, and that these would be 
installed in the next repair visit. Both of those visits together were therefore part of the same 
repair.
I think that the supplier was entitled to sub-contract the remaining work to a third party. 
Legally, the supplier would still be responsible for whatever was done on its behalf, and 
Mr Hs rights under the 2015 Act and under section 75 would not be affected. The sub-
contractor emailed Mr H to arrange a date and time for the second visit, but Mr H insisted 
that he would not deal with them directly but only through the supplier. So I dont think the 
subsequent delay in finishing the work was the suppliers fault. It follows that the supplier did 
not fail to carry out the work within a reasonable time, since in determining what is 
reasonable I have had regard to the fact that the sub-contractor tried to arrange a repair but 
was unable to because Mr H did not make an appointment.
For these reasons, I do not think that MBNA reached the wrong outcome in dealing with 
Mr Hs section 75 claim. Mr H is not yet entitled to exercise his right to reject the sofa.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman