DRN-2780080
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Gold account. Mr S 
says he was pressured by Direct Mailing to take out the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint about the Gold account. He didnt think 
that this account had been mis-sold. Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Gold account mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr S was given a fair choice to 
take out the Gold packaged bank account.
Mr S has explained that he was pressured into taking the account through Direct Mailing. I 
have carefully considered this and while I agree that Lloyds may have strongly encouraged 
Mr S to take out the Gold account, I do not find it credible that Mr S thought, via a letter, that 
he had no choice but to upgrade his account. After all, he had held a fee-free account with 
Lloyds for a number of years. I think it is more likely than not that he agreed to the account 
as he was persuaded to take it out due to the benefits that it came with.
Lloyds only has records of Mr Ss Gold account going back to September 2001 so I cant be 
certain when the account was taken out - which makes it difficult to say what exactly the 
account came with. That said, I can see that Mr S had taken out a Gold personal loan in 
December 1999. As a Gold personal loan was only available to Gold accountholders, I am 
satisfied that the account must have been in place prior to this.
My understanding is that in 1999, the Gold account cost £8 per month, and one of the 
benefits it provided was a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with reduced interest rates on 
balances overdrawn by more than that amount (provided the account remained within an 
agreed limit). I can see in 2001 (the earliest we have bank statements), and indeed for large 
periods of time after this point, Mr Ss account was regularly overdrawn and he was paying 
considerable amounts of overdraft interest. So based on how the account operated from 
2001 onwards, I think there was a likelihood that Mr S relied on his overdraft to a similar 
degree prior to September 2001 too. And one key benefit of having the Gold account was 
that the amount of interest Mr S paid when using his overdraft was reduced.
Mr S says that a personal recommendation was made, as the mailings he received 
suggested that he take out the Gold account. I am not persuaded that the mailings that he 
wouldve received wouldve made a recommendation based on Mr Ss specific insurance 
needs. But even had the account been recommended to him, I dont think that the account 
was inappropriate for Mr Ss needs.
As I have already explained, the Gold account provided preferential rates on loans, £100 
interest free overdraft facility, and reduced interest rates on balances overdrawn by more 
than that amount - up to the agreed limit. It also provided worldwide travel insurance 
alongside other benefits such as commission free travel money, travel accident cover, 
extended warranty, purchase protection and card protection. 
Mr S has said that he did travel, he took out Gold loans with preferential rates and he used 
his overdraft facility - which also came with a preferential rate. So even if Lloyds had made a 
recommendation that he upgrade to the Gold account, this would not have been 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
I note that Mr S has mentioned other benefits that the account came with, such as 
breakdown cover - which he says he did not need. But this was not a benefit at the time the 
account was taken out. So it is not relevant as to whether the account was mis-sold in the 
first instance.
In addition to making sure the account was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr S 
important information about the account. Its not clear what information he was given, and I 
accept that he may not have been given all of the important information about the account. 
But Ive not seen anything specific that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
Mr S has mentioned that Lloyds did not review his account to make sure it continued to meet 
his needs. But Lloyds had no obligation to do this, and it was up to Mr S to decide if he 
wanted to continue with the account.
I understand that this will be frustrating to Mr S. And I accept that, with the benefit of 
hindsight, the account may not have been good value for money. But this does not mean it 
was wrong for Lloyds to have sold it in the first instance, and overall I dont think the Gold 
account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about his Gold 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman