DRN-3520069
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Al Rayan Bank PLCs processes for opening a new bond. He 
felt discriminated against as an existing customer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  she didnt find that 
Al Rayan Bank had done anything wrong. Mr D appealed. The facts are not in dispute so Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D wanted to take out a new cash bond with Al Rayan Bank. He attempted to do 
this online but having completed the application he was told that he needed to 
contact the bank. I can see that this would have been disappointing given that Mr D 
had previously opened a bond this way  however that is the banks process with 
which I cant interfere.
When he got through to an adviser he was told that as an existing customer he either 
needed to download the app and proceed this way or have a telephone interview. 
Although I understand why Mr D felt that he was being treated unfairly as an existing 
customer, I dont agree that he was. Im satisfied that all existing customers were 
treated in the same way, which is part of the banks process. I dont find that he was 
discriminated against as an existing customer.
I can see that twice when Mr D was calling the bank after some period of time the call 
was disconnected. I find that this would have been very frustrating for Mr D. But the 
bank has explained that this was due to a technical issue  and I can see that on 
both occasions it attempted to call Mr D back. It has also offered £10 as a gesture of 
goodwill to cover the cost of calls made, although its call centre has a free number. I 
think that its offer was fair.
I understand Mr D decided to open an account with another bank and this has 
resulted in him receiving a lower interest rate. However Im satisfied that it was 
possible for him to open a second account in the ways explained to him by the bank. 
That is by downloading the app or applying through an adviser on the phone. It 
follows that I dont find there is any basis for requiring Al Rayan Bank to pay any 
interest to Mr D. As mentioned above, Im not able to tell a financial business how it 
should operate or process applications. But in all the circumstances here I dont find 
Mr D was treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman