DRN-3952807
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) irresponsibly gave him two loans 
that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr M applied for a loan with HSBC Bank. He was given a loan of 
£10,000 over 60 months and the monthly repayment was £203.56. 
In July 2019, Mr M applied for a loan with HSBC Bank. He was given a loan of £21,490 
over 60 months and the monthly repayment was £480.41. This second loan refinanced the 
first loan.
In 2022, Mr M complained to HSBC Bank to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint not to be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
HSBC Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ms complaint is that HSBC Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. HSBC 
Bank has no record of the information that supported the first loan. But HSBC Bank has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mr M provided at the time of each 
application to assess affordability. They were entitled to rely on that information, but they 
also cross checked it with the credit passing into Mr Ms account. Both the declared income 
and the credit that passed through Mr Ms account suggested there was affordability for the 
loans. The second loan was to fully refinance the first loan with some of the loan monies. 
HSBC Bank also said that they carried out a credit search in Mr Ms name to assess Mr Ms 
level of debt at the time of each lending decision and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. HSBC Bank told us that the credit check it secured showed that Mr Ms 
credit history was very clean at the time of the second loan application. Mr M has provided a 
full copy of his credit file. And this shows that Mr Ms management of his existing credit 
showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or bankruptcies at the time of either loan. And 
the only blemish was on one utility account on which Mr M had two late payments in 2016 
and in 2017. But there was no such history of arrears in the 12 months before the first loan 
was given. And nothing extra between the two loans. 
So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decisions were made, Mr 
M was affording his existing credit. So, HSBC Bank appeared to have little reason to make 
further enquiries into Mr Ms expenditure at those times based on the information it was 
provided by Mr M and it procured for itself. And so, HSBC Bank were not put on notice of 
any reason not to agree the lending from that. 
Mr M told us the income he had was lower than he told HSBC Bank. And Mr M has provided 
testimony that he was struggling to make ends meet and was supplementing his income 
with the profits from selling items. But the bank statements that Mr M has provided show 
that the level of money coming into his account largely balanced the amount of money 
leaving the account. The bank account information shows an account being managed. So, 
in terms of information that HSBC Bank had at its disposal, the bank statements arent 
conclusive evidence that Mr M was in the grip of financial difficulty that should have 
precluded the provision of the credit HSBC Bank provided. 
In saying that, I have considered that the first loan is relatively modest in nature and the 
monthly payments are relatively modest, compared to the money moving into Mr Ms 
account each month. And for the second loan, I have also noted that there is a document 
dated 13 March 2020 that suggests that Mr M had an income of over £48,000 in the 
preceding 12 months, which covers the time of the second loan. And I have also noted 
that one of the purposes of the second loan was the consolidation of the first loan. So, I 
dont see the lending decision HSBC Bank made for the second loan as evidence solely of 
new credit being provided by HSBC Bank, adding to an already existing amount of 
personal borrowing. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, Im not persuaded that based 
on the information provided to HSBC Bank, or what HSBC Bank could see of Mr Ms 
management of other credit, ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence 
to think that the credit HSBC Bank provided to Mr M was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has invested 
time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr M to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. But having considered all the submissions in this case, 
particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman