DRN-3707978
The complaint
Mrs C says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva Life), trading as Colonial Mutual, gave 
her unsuitable advice in 1992 to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions 
(FSAVC) plan instead of informing her about the option to buy added years from her 
occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mrs C is represented by Greg Vaughan Financial Services Ltd (GVFS).
Mr C received similar advice from Aviva Life at the same time as Mrs C. He was also in the 
same profession. A separate complaint has been set-up to consider the specific merits of his 
case. Inevitably there is some read-across between the two.
What happened
In December 1992 Mrs C met Aviva Life to discuss her pension provision. At the time she 
was a member of a public sector OPS. A fact find was completed with information about her 
circumstances, requirements and risk profile. It assessed her needs and made a 
recommendation based on suitable Aviva products. 
Aviva Life recommended Mrs C took out an FSAVC policy. She agreed and the plan began 
in January 1993, with non-indexed contributions of £35.00 per month. The last contribution 
she made was in May 2002 and the policy was made paid up.
In January 2021 GVFS raised a number of concerns about what had happened to Mrs C in 
1992. At the heart of that complaint was that she hadnt be properly informed about the 
options open to her through her employer for making additional contributions to her pension 
provision.
Aviva Life noted that as company representatives, its advisers were only authorised to 
discuss and recommend its own products. But it acknowledged they were expected to check 
customers knew about the alternative options offered by any in-house scheme. It wasnt able 
to confirm this had happened and it upheld her mis-selling complaint.
Aviva Life went on to calculate the financial loss to Mrs C. It said had it informed her about 
her options she wouldve most likely opted for the in-house added voluntary contributions 
(AVC) plan, which wouldve been cheaper than its FSAVC product.
GVFS disagreed with the proposed method for calculating redress. It considered that given 
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, shed have chosen to buy added years from her scheme. 
Aviva Life thought its offer was correct. And so Mrs Cs case was brought to this Service.
The last Investigator to review Mrs Cs complaint upheld it. Amongst other matters, he 
thought the initial cost to her of added years was cheaper than the FSAVC and that given 
her career situation this option wouldve been more suitable.
Aviva Life disagreed with the Investigator. It noted that at the time the sale of money 
purchase plans was considered to be a more affordable way of maximising retirement 
incomes. It noted Mrs C had chosen not to index her FSAVC contributions and that the 
alternative of buying added years wouldve led to increasing and higher costs over time.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view on redress, Mrs Cs complaint has 
been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva Life has already accepted based on the available evidence Mrs C was mis-sold her 
FSAVC in 1992. What I need to consider is whether its more likely than not if it had done 
what it shouldve she wouldve opted to buy added years from her OPS rather than 
contribute to an AVC. I must do so recognising over 30 years have passed since the events 
in question and the information available is limited. And I must also guard against hindsight.
In considering Mrs Cs options there are a range of factors that I think are relevant. I need to 
think about the relative cost of the alternatives and the features provided; her age and family 
status; her job prospects and likely earnings; flexibility and affordability; and her attitude to 
risk.
At the time of the advice in 1992, Aviva Life recorded that Mrs Cs priority was retirement 
income. She was 29 years old and earning around £19,000 a year. She already had seven 
years reckonable service. The Normal Retirement Age (NRA) of her OPS was 60, which 
provided for a maximum of 40 qualifying years. So, she had a potential shortfall of two years 
in terms of being able to achieve a maximum pension, assuming she remained in the 
profession. Mrs C was recorded as having a cautious attitude to risk.
Aviva Lifes arguments arent without merit. Its true to say that in the 1990s investment 
returns were better than they have been recently. Money purchase arrangements for 
pensions were considered as offering a good way of maximising income in retirement. I also 
accept that the cost of buying added years wouldve been linked to Mrs Cs salary and so 
wouldve cost more over time. It was also less flexible than the alternatives in some 
respects, for example in terms of stopping payments.
However, on balance, I think had Mrs C been in possession of the information Aviva Life was 
obliged to provide, shed have investigated buying added years from her employer and 
ultimately wouldve done so. I say this because:
- Aviva Life has calculated it wouldve been cheaper initially for her to have bought 
added years than the premiums for the plan it recommended. And while the cost of 
such wouldve exceeded the money purchase arrangement after several years, given 
her profession and reasonable expectation for income growth, it seems more likely than not the cost of added years in terms of her disposable income wouldve been 
falling, and certainly affordable.
- Theres nothing to indicate Mrs C was interested in anything other than providing for 
her income in retirement. And the limited information we have suggests she had a 
cautious risk appetite. Buying added years presented no risk to her, whereas a 
money purchase arrangement required the exposure of her funds to some risk. So, I 
think the former was more compatible with her outlook.
- At the time of the advice, Mrs C was already established in a profession with seven 
years of service, a good career structure and a reasonable prospect of progression. 
This is suggestive of someone less likely to be an early leaver or someone who 
changes jobs regularly, where a money purchase arrangement might provide useful 
flexibility.
In addition, I think Mrs Cs defined benefit scheme provided a broader range of benefits than 
either the AVC and FSAVC proposed, and these wouldve applied to any added years she 
bought. For example, the pension entitlement accrued was uprated each year prior to 
retirement whether she was an active member or not member. And it also enjoyed uprating 
after retirement. Her OPS provided benefits for her family, as well as tax-free lump sum 
provision and ill-health enhancements.
And my overall conclusion here is further strengthened when I consider the position of Mrs 
and Mr Cs household in the round. For example, it makes arguments around affordability 
even more persuasive.
Given the, albeit limited, information we have about Mrs Cs circumstances, objective and 
risk attitude, Ive concluded she was a credible candidate for buying added years from her 
OPS. I say this because I think its more likely than not this option, which provided for a risk 
free, affordable approach to topping up her guaranteed benefits, wouldve been a more 
attractive option than an AVC or FSAVC policy.
Putting things right
Mrs C needs to be put back into the position she wouldve been in now, or as close as 
reasonably possible, had it not been for the failings of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. I 
consider she wouldve bought additional years from her DB scheme.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mrs C whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. She would 
like her complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair that Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited calculates Mrs Cs redress in line with new guidance and rules 
when they come into effect.
So, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators FSAVC review methodology on an added years basis. This involves using, in 
part, the Pension Review methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. It must undertake the calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).
In accordance with the regulators expectations, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited will need 
to ensure the calculation is undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs C within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited has received notification of her acceptance of my decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the 
date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Aviva Life to pay Mrs C.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. 
Aviva Life should give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to carry out a loss assessment and to put things right in the way Ive 
directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman