DRN-3519738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money they lost, to what they 
believe was a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to be as 
follows.
In November 2017, Mr and Mrs M were looking to make an investment. Mr M has told us 
that he was contacted by a representative from a company, that Ill refer to as company A. 
Mr M has said he told the representative he didnt want to spend hours making investments 
himself and the representative would be free to make these decisions. 
Mr M completed an application form to set up a trading account, but this was arranged by a 
different company, which Ill refer to as company B. Having successfully set up the trading 
account, Mr M has said As representative requested the login details for the trading 
account, which hes said he provided. Mr and Mrs M went ahead and made the following 
payments, from their joint account, to deposit funds into the trading account. The payments 
were made to an account held by B;
 
7 November 2017   £  3,000
27 November 2017 £17,000
Towards the end of 2017, Mr M sadly fell victim to an unrelated investment scam. So he 
asked B to refund £5,000, in order to give him comfort that they could be trusted. Mr M has 
provided us with a copy of the email he sent requesting this withdrawal, and I can see he 
sent this to B. Mr M requested that the funds be returned to an account he held with a 
different bank, within the email Mr M also requested that all trading on his account be 
ceased. 
On the same day B responded to Mr M, it said that it had made the £5,000 withdrawal from 
his trading account and this would be transferred to the account details he had provided the 
following morning. It also explained that Mr M would need to close all open positions on his 
trading account before it could process the withdrawal of his remaining balance.
 
The following day B contacted Mr M to confirm that it had processed the payment for £5,000. 
Mr M responded to confirm he had received the refund and enquired as to when the balance 
would be paid. B responded and re-iterated that Mr M would need to close all open positions 
on his account, before it could process the withdrawal of his remaining balance, this was on 
26 January 2018.
Mr M has said, in March 2018, he saw the investment was performing badly and so 
contacted B again to close his account. But hes told us B only refunded £6,980 and £54.21, 
which it told Mr M was the equity available at the time of the account being closed.
Mr M has told us that until recently he thought A had just done a bad job. But he said when 
he checked A on Companies House, he could see that in 2017 it made a loss, had barely 
broken even the following year and the latest accounts appeared to be duplicates of the 
previous years, so he concluded it was not bonafide. Mr M has said overall he invested 
£20,000, but he has only received a return of £12,034.21, meaning £7,965.79 has been lost.
Mr M raised the matter with Bank of Scotland, as he believed he had been the victim of a 
scam. Bank of Scotland looked into things and issued its final response on 23 March 2021, 
not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In summary, it said it had contacted the receiving 
bank (the bank to which the money was sent) but had not been able to recover any funds. It 
didnt agree that it should have stopped the payments to question Mr and Mrs M about them, 
this was because it didnt agree the two transactions that were made were outside of the 
normal account activity.
 
Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked 
into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, in summary this was 
because he didnt think Bank of Scotland should reasonably have been expected to prevent 
the money being lost. He recognised there seemed to be a discrepancy about what role A 
played, but that Mr M had sent the money to a company (B) that is regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
He added that when Mr M had requested to withdraw £5,000, the refund was made and then 
when Mr M asked for his account to be closed, it was closed with further refunds, totalling 
£7,034.21, being sent to him. Our investigator explained that it was rare for a fraudster to 
return any funds, let alone such significant amounts, as was the case here. Our investigator 
added that Bank of Scotland had contacted the receiving bank, who had not expressed any 
concerns that the beneficiary account was being utilised fraudulently. Overall, it was our 
investigators view that, based on the evidence available, this wasnt a scam  so he didnt 
think Bank of Scotland missed an opportunity to identify the payments were being made as 
the result of a scam.
 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary they said A are 
unregulated and they were not acting in an appropriate manner, as they were not permitted 
to give investment advice, but they did which resulted in a loss. Mr M said that Bank of 
Scotland has an obligation to discuss transactions, and while it could say the first payment 
for £3,000 was not out of character, the £17,000 payment was  Mr M added that if it had 
contacted him he wouldnt have lost this money.
 
Our investigator responded to Mr M asking if he had any evidence to show A had given 
investment advice. He asked this as an email Mr M had shared from A indicated that its 
business was to design and lease algorithms, that traded on the FX markets. The email from 
A also said that it was not regulated by the FCA, didnt hold client money, nor did it provide 
financial advice.
 
Mr M has said he doesnt have any details of the transactions, as the account was closed 
and the main tool of communication he had with A, was through mobile phone. Mr M added 
the representative of A, did ask him to provide log on details of the trading account, which he 
thought was a strange way to operate. Mr M added that he now thought the representative 
had opened the account and operated it as though he was bonafide. He said that company 
B dont appear to be scammers, and perhaps A werent involved either. But he considered A 
were still acting in a manner that was not appropriate, which he thinks is fraud. Mr M re-
iterated that Bank of Scotland should still be held responsible due to its failure to question 
him on the recipients.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Bank of Scotlands actions, Im not intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont 
think I can fairly say Bank of Scotland should reimburse them. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland was required to promptly process payments authorised by Mr and Mrs M  
from their account. But banks also have obligations to try to prevent fraud. So, its important 
to establish whether the payments made were as a result of fraud  our investigator 
concluded this was unlikely to have been the case.
Its understandable having lost such a significant sum why Mr and Mrs M feel they have 
been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are 
in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. I have taken account of the Fraud Act 2006, which defines 
fraud as, amongst other things, dishonestly making a false representation, whether express 
or implied, in order to make oneself a gain or cause another loss; and a representation is 
false if its untrue or misleading and the representor knows that it is or might be untrue or 
misleading. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
 
Its clear Mr and Mrs M began to have concerns about the investments after they had been 
made, and I understand these concerns may have been heightened from what Mr M has 
said about sadly falling victim to an investment scam (which I should make clear is not 
related to this complaint), soon after making the transactions here. And I can understand 
entirely why they feel so strongly about what has happened. It is clear that things havent 
gone as expected and it isnt clear why As representative required the login details for Mr 
Ms trading account. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know, that there 
was an intent here to set out to defraud them.
 
I say this because the firm that Mr and Mrs M made their payments to (B) is a company that 
is still trading and that is authorised and regulated by the FCA. Im also mindful that 
company A is still trading and registered with Companies House. Looking at the email A sent 
to Mr M, I can see it says that its business is to design and lease algorithms, that could be used to trade. But that it didnt handle client funds, nor give advice. I dont doubt that Mr and 
Mrs M has in some way used the services of A, but I think the information given in the email, 
regarding how A operates, is supported by Mr and Mrs M carrying out all transactions 
through B, with no funds passing through A. And from the evidence Ive seen, Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me A have provided any investment advice to Mr and Mrs M.
I also dont think what has happened, in the specific circumstances of this case, carries the 
hallmarks of how investment scams typically play out. I say that because;
- B acted promptly in actioning withdrawal requests from Mr and Mrs M, refunding 
£5,000 the day after the request was made and then making a further refund on the 
same day Mr M requested that the trading account be closed. While a fraudster may 
sometimes use the tactic of making a token refund, in order to gain a victims trust 
and lure them into making further investments. It is not usual for refunds to be made 
so promptly or for such large amounts.
- Alongside this both A and B were still contactable after Mr and Mrs M had made the 
payments, when they were requesting the trading account be closed and when the 
funds were withdrawn. This is not typical behaviour for fraudsters who often cant be 
contacted after they have taken a victims money, or when a victim requests that 
funds are returned.
- Im also mindful, in the circumstances of this case, that its not apparent that Mr and 
Mrs M were tricked into thinking they were making substantial (too good to be true) 
profits or being pressured into investing. Indeed Mr M has told us that he could see 
from his trading account that the investments were performing badly, which 
contributed to him wanting to close the account. It is more common for fraudsters to 
portray investments as showing substantial gains, rather than losses.
 
- It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the payments have been made to an account 
held by a genuine firm that is regulated by the FCA. And the receiving bank didnt 
have any concerns regarding the legitimacy of how the account was being used. This 
isnt typical of how an investment scam will usually unfold, with payments more 
typically going to accounts in the name of individuals or unrelated bogus companies.
 
Im mindful that Mr M himself has said that company B dont appear to be scammers, and 
perhaps A werent involved either. Overall and on balance, considering the evidence that is 
available to me, this appears more likely than not to be a case of a bad investment, rather 
than a scam. 
Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, there is 
nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from 
bad bargains or to give them investment advice. There are occasions when we do think 
banks should query payments because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is 
fair and reasonable for a banker to pause and ask questions of the payer about the 
transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before any loss occurs. But those 
considerations are predicated on there being evidence of a fraud or scam, which is not the 
case here. 
A bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable for 
alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second 
thoughts after the event. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M think Bank of Scotland didnt do 
enough to protect them given the size of the payments. But, given my finding above, Im not persuaded there was a fraud or scam to protect Mr and Mrs M against  and so ultimately 
Bank of Scotland had no obligation to get involved with the payments Mr and Mrs M made.
 
Having said that, when Mr and Mrs M notified Bank of Scotland of their loss it contacted the 
receiving bank to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, it wasnt able to recover any 
funds and so nothing could be returned to Mr and Mrs M. Im satisfied Bank of Scotland 
made reasonable efforts to recover the funds Mr and Mrs M lost, and I cant say it needed to 
do anything else. So, overall, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to hold Bank of Scotland responsible for Mr and Mrs Ms loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman