DRN-3066725
The complaint
Ms G complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly gave her loans which she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans MoneyBoat provided to Ms G as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest Repayment 
(shown on the loan 
agreement )
125/02/2020 25/03/2020 4 £400.00 £161.97
227/04/2020 04/05/2020 6 £1,000.00 £304.77
308/05/2020 09/05/2020 6 £1,500.00 £443.15
406/06/2020 29/10/2020 6 £1,300.00 £414.77
Our adjudicator didnt think it was unfair for MoneyBoat to have provided loans 1 or 2 to 
Ms G but said the repayments for loans 3 and 4 represented a significant proportion of 
Ms Gs income. This meant that there was a significant risk that Ms G wouldnt have been 
able to make the repayments on these loans without having to borrow again, making the 
lending unsustainable for her. 
So our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided loan 3 or loan 4 to Ms G and 
upheld the complaint. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps MoneyBoat needed to take to put things right for Ms G.
We havent heard further from MoneyBoat and the deadline for responses has now passed. 
So, as the complaint isnt yet settled, it comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Ms G could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint. 
Before lending to Ms G, MoneyBoat asked her for details of her income and normal 
expenditure. And MoneyBoat carried out checks on Ms Gs credit file.
Looking at each of the loans in turn, I agree with the adjudicator that, on the basis of the 
information Ms G told MoneyBoat about her income and outgoings and what MoneyBoat had 
recorded about her financial situation, it wasnt wrong for MoneyBoat to give her 
loans 1 and 2. It was early in the lending relationship and given the loan amounts and the 
information MoneyBoat had recorded for Ms G, I think the checks it did prior to providing 
these loans were enough for MoneyBoat to agree to lend. 
As Ms G hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold 
these loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
I agree with our adjudicator that, given the particular circumstances of Ms Gs case, 
MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that loan 3 was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. 
I say this because when Ms G asked for loan 3, MoneyBoats records show it relied on 
information showing that Ms Gs income was £1,520. The repayment she needed to make when she took out this loan (around £443) worked out 
at around 29% of her take home pay just for this loan alone  and MoneyBoat was aware 
that she had other credit debt that she needed to pay as well. 
Especially bearing in mind that Ms G had signed up to make the repayments over the next 
6 months I think MoneyBoat ought to have realised that the repayment that Ms G had to 
make to pay loan 3 was such a significant proportion of her spending money each month 
that, in reality, this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for her. 
I think thats borne out by the fact that when Ms G applied for loan 4 MoneyBoats credit 
checks showed that the amount of Ms Gs revolving credit debt had increased by £700 or so 
since she had applied for loan 3 just a month or so earlier. And the monthly repayments for 
loan 4 were almost a third of the disposable income figure which MoneyBoat had recorded 
for Ms G when she applied for this loan. I think MoneyBoat, as a responsible lender, should 
have been aware that she was unlikely to be able to make the monthly repayments in a way 
that would be sustainably affordable.    
So MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided loans 3 and 4 to Ms G. And for these reasons, Im 
upholding Ms Gs complaint about these loans.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms G, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Ms G and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms G in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So MoneyBoat should do the following:
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 and 4, not including anything already refunded.B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Ms G the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information from Ms Gs credit file for loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint about loans 3 and 4 and direct Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman