DRN-4473349
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has incorrectly applied 
late payment markers to her credit file.
What happened
Mrs P sent Virgin Money a cheque to pay her credit card, but this wasnt processed in time 
due to Christmas. She contacted Virgin Money about this and the interest was refunded but 
the late payment marker wasnt removed. She was also told that she had another late 
payment marker on her account which she says shouldnt have been applied as it related to 
a month where the only transaction was in dispute. 
Virgin Money issued a final response letter dated 28 February 2023. It didnt think it had 
acted incorrectly. It said that the cheque payment Mrs P sent was received on 3 January 
2023 and processed and authorised on 6 January 2023. It noted Mrs P also made a bank 
transfer of 4 January 2023. It said it didnt report a late payment for January 2023 as Mrs Ps 
account was brought up to date. Prior to that it said two late payment markers had been 
recorded on Mrs Ps credit file due to the payments missed on 16 November 2022 and 18 
December 2022. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. She didnt accept that the payments had been 
missed and she wants the late payment markers removed from her credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He found that Virgin Money had acted fairly in 
this case and that the markers had been correctly added to Mrs Ps credit file. 
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P thinks that two late payment markers have been unfairly added to her credit file. Virgin 
Money has explained these relate to the payments that were due on 16 November 2022 and 
18 December 2022.
Virgin Money is required to provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies 
which provides a true reflection of Mrs Ps account. Given this I would only be able to require 
Virgin Money to remove the markers if I was satisfied that these had been applied incorrectly 
or didnt provide an accurate reflection of Mrs Ps account.
I have looked at Mrs Ps statements from the time and I can see that on her statement dated 
27 October 2022 the minimum payment is set out as £18.98 to be paid by 16 November 
2022. And on her statement dated 27 November 2022 the minimum payment is set out as 
£25 to be paid by 18 December 2022. 
Mrs P says that she didnt make the payment of £18.98 in November 2022 because this 
transaction was in dispute as she hadnt received the item. On 8 November Mrs P sent an 
email as a response to an email received about a previous dispute. She said she had paid 
£18.98 for an item that hadnt been received and asked if this could be queried for her. While 
I can see that she said she hadnt paid the amount and didnt want interest to be added, I do 
not find I can say this is enough to say that she wasnt required to make the minimum 
payment due on 16 November. I say this because Virgin Money has explained that the 
dispute wasnt raised in the correct way, and I have nothing to suggest that Mrs P was told in 
response to her 8 November email that she was no longer required to make a payment. So, 
while I note the comment about interest not being charged, I do not find I can say that Virgin 
Money did anything wrong by notifying the credit reference agencies when the minimum 
payment wasnt made.
Mrs P was then required to make a minimum payment of £25 by 18 December. She has 
explained that she posted a cheque on 14 December, but this wasnt received in time. Mrs P 
contacted Virgin Money on 3 January and the cheque hadnt been received at that time. I 
think Virgin Money acted fairly by removing the interest charged but I do not find I can say it 
is also required to remove the marker from Mrs Ps account. This is because it was Mrs Ps 
responsibility to make sure her payment was made on time and had she been concerned 
about postal delays she could have made the payment a different way, as she did on 4 
January. Therefore, while I accept Mrs P sent her cheque for payment as this wasnt 
received in time I cannot say that Virgin Money was wrong to apply the late payment marker. 
Mrs P then brought her account up to date and so no late payment markers were applied in 
January 2023. 
While I understand Mrs Ps comments about the markers on her credit file, as I do not find I 
can say these have been applied incorrectly, I do not require Virgin Money to remove these. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman