DRN-2533568
The complaint
 Mrs N has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave her
unaffordable loans.
What happened
 Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining that Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld in part. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs N took six loans from Lending Stream between September 2019 and February 2020. A
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Combined 
Monthly Repayment
1 30/09/2019 06/11/2019 6 £600.00 £187.69
2 21/11/2019 17/12/2019 6 £450.00 £136.49
3 24/11/2019 17/12/2019 6 £530.00 £309.79
4 22/12/2019 12/05/2020 6 £500.00 £166.12
5 01/02/2020 12/05/2020 6 £400.00 £297.94
6 28/02/2020 12/05/2020 6 £270.00 £389.16
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ns complaint. She didnt think Lending Stream were
wrong to approve Mrs Ns earlier loans based on the information it gathered about her
financial circumstances. Whilst the adjudicator thought Lending Streams checks should
have been more comprehensive for Mrs Ns later loans, she didnt have enough information
to conclude the loans were unaffordable.
It appears that Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mrs N disagreed and
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was provided.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mrs N could repay these loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all meant for Mrs Ns complaint. And having done so Im intending
to partly uphold the complaint.
Loans 1-4
All of Mrs Ns loans were repayable over six months and so Ive considered the total amount
that Mrs N needed to repay to Lending Stream every month, and if she could sustain the
repayments.
Lending Stream carried out an income and expenditure check before approving each of
Mrs Ns loans. Mrs N declared she had a monthly income of between £1,900 and £1,990.
And her monthly expenditure totalled no more than £575 per month.
Mrs N was approved for these loans early on in her lending relationship with Lending
Stream. Given the information Mrs N declared about her circumstances and thinking about
the highest monthly repayment these loans appeared affordable to Lending Stream.
There wasnt anything in the information Mrs N provided at the time which should have given
Lending Stream cause for concern. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lending
Stream relied on the information it was given by Mrs N at this stage of the borrowing
relationship. As a result, I dont think Lending Stream were wrong to approve these loans.
Loans 5-6
I think Lending Stream should have carried out more comprehensive checks before agreeing
to Loans 5 and 6. I say this because, Mrs N had taken five loans in four months and her
monthly commitment to Lending Stream was almost at the highest it had ever been. So,these factors ought to have led Lending Stream to carry furthermore in-depth checks before
approving these loans.
Lending Stream couldve asked for copies of Mrs Ns bank statement or it couldve asked for
a copy of her credit report and evidence of her outgoings such as a copy of bills. Lending
Stream didnt do this for these loans, so I dont think its checks went far enough. However,
that doesnt mean that Lending Stream made an error when it approved both of these loans.
Mrs N hasnt provided us with copies of her bank statements or credit file, so Im unable to
conclude that had Lending Stream carried out a proportionate check for loan five it wouldve
seen that Mrs N couldnt afford the loan.
However, I do think if Lending Stream had completed additional checks on Mrs Ns
circumstances at the time of this loan, it wouldve discovered, she had one outstanding
short-term loan with another lender at the time she applied for her sixth loan. In addition, to
this Lending Stream was aware that loans 4 and 5 were still outstanding. Knowing, this and
taking into account the previous lending history, I think Lending Stream ought to have been
concerned that Mrs N wasnt in a position to sustainably repay this loan and so it shouldnt
have lent this loan.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs N responded, saying, she accepted the provisional decision and didnt have anything 
new for me to consider. Lending Stream didnt respond by the deadline and so it hasnt 
added anything new. 
I therefore, dont see any reason why I should depart from the findings that I reached in my 
provisional decision. So I still think Lending Stream was wrong to have provided loan 6 to 
Mrs N. Ive outlined below what Lending Stream needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs N from loan six, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs N may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs N in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs N would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges from loan 6.
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs N, calculated from
the date Mrs N originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ns credit
file about loan 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream
should give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman