DRN-3412235
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Sanderson Drake Limited (SDL) and the fee they are charging 
following a successful claim for irresponsible lending.
What happened
In January 2021, SDL received a signed Letter of Authority (LOA) and Conditional Fee 
Agreement (CFA) authorising them to pursue a claim for irresponsible lending against lender 
A on Mrs Ms behalf.
This claim was submitted to Lender A, who upheld it offering a reduction to Mrs Ms 
outstanding balance of £175.96 as well as the removal of the loans they provided from Mrs 
Ms credit file. So, SDL proceeded to invoice Mrs M for their fee, in line with the terms of the 
CFA. Mrs M was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs M believed that SDL had acted without her authority and she disputed signing the LOA 
and CFA SDL had received. Mrs M said shed been dealing with another company regarding 
the claim as shed heard nothing from SDL and so, she didnt think SDLs fee should be 
payable. So, Mrs M wanted the fee to be waived, including the additional charges SDL had 
applied during their collection process.
SDL responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd submitted the claim to Lender A that 
led to the balance reduction Mrs M received. So, they thought theyd acted fairly when 
invoicing Mrs M for their fee, which they thought was in line with the terms of the CFA Mrs M 
agreed to. And as Mrs M hadnt paid the fee, SDL thought they were fair to add their debt 
collection fees. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs M 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that Mrs 
M had instructed SDL to pursue the claim on her behalf. And because of this, they thought 
SDL acted fairly when invoicing Mrs M for their fee, as this fee fell in line with the terms of 
the CFA Mrs M entered into. So, they didnt think SDL needed to do anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree. She explained again that the signature of the LOA and CFA wasnt hers, 
and that she hadnt signed them. And she reiterated her point about receiving no contact 
from SDL, which led her to engaging another company to pursue the same claim.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained unchanged. They also 
provided Mrs M with the opportunity to provide evidence that showed the work another 
company completed on the claim, so this could be considered further. But Mrs M didnt 
provide this. Mrs M remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs M. I appreciate Mrs M 
disputes the validity of the LOA and CFA SDL have relied on when pursuing the claim on her 
behalf. So, I can understand the upset Mrs M would feel when she received an invoice she 
felt was unjust, and her frustration when SDL continued with their debt collection activity 
which incurred further costs.
But for me to say SDL have acted unfairly, Id need to be satisfied they purposefully acted 
without the authority of Mrs M when pursuing the claim. Or, if I think they were fair to pursue 
the claim, that the balance reduction Mrs M received resulted from no work that SDL 
completed. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about Mrs Ms claim that the LOA and CFA werent signed by her. In 
particular, Mrs M has stated the signature shown on the LOA and CFA isnt hers. But SDL 
have confirmed both the LOA and CFA were signed and completed online. So, I wouldnt 
expect the signature showing on either form to match Mrs Ms wet signature and I dont think 
this in itself means SDL acted unfairly, or without authority.
So, Ive thought about the information and evidence available to me to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened. I can see Mrs M was in communication with SDL before the 
LOA and CFA were signed, requesting the documentation needed to allow them to pursue 
the claim. And Ive seen the IP address linked to the document competition is based around 
the area of the address Mrs M has provided to our service as her home address. So, 
considering this and Mrs Ms clear intention to authorise SDL to pursue a claim for her, I 
think its reasonable for me to assume Mrs M did sign these documents. And because of 
this, I think SDL acted fairly and reasonably when pursuing the claim.
But for me to say the fee SDL are charging Mrs M is fair, I also need to be satisfied it is the 
work they completed that led to the balance reduction Mrs M received.
Ive seen Lender As final decision letter, where they upheld Mrs Ms claim and offered the 
reduction as well as the removal of any information reported to Mrs Ms credit file. And I can 
see this letter is addressed to SDL directly, stating:
I am writing in response to your complaint made on behalf of our mutual client {Mrs M}, 
initially received by e-mail on 19/01/2021. 
I think this letter makes it reasonably clear the claim Lender A received, and upheld, was 
made by SDL. The date Lender A say they received the claim correlates directly with the 
date SDL say the claim was submitted. And I wouldnt expect Lender A to correspond with 
SDL unless they were satisfied SDL had the relevant authority from Mrs M. So, Im satisfied 
that the work SDL completed let to the balance reduction Mrs M received and because of 
this, I think SDL were reasonable to issue an invoice based on this reduction, as long as it 
fell in line with the terms of the CFA Mrs M entered into.
Ive seen the terms of the CFA, which I think explain clear that SDL will charge a 36% fee on 
the total claim value, which includes a balance reduction. And the original invoice SDL 
issued Mrs M fell in line with this. So, I dont think I can say SDL acted unfairly. The terms of the CFA also explain that SDLs fee needed to be paid within 7 days and if it 
wasnt, that additional fees will be charged with a list of example fees included. Mrs M didnt 
pay the invoice within 7 days. And the additional fees SDL have added fall in line with the 
examples given within the CFA. So, I dont think I can say SDL acted unfairly when adding 
these or that they, or any part of the current outstanding fee, should be removed or waived. 
Because of this, I dont think SDL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. And I do recognise that some of 
the communication SDL sent to Mrs M after they were instructed, and after their fee had 
been issued, may have caused some confusion. But despite this, I think from the information 
I have available that Mrs M shouldve been reasonably aware that SDL were acting on her 
behalf. So, I dont think the fee SDL are charging should be impacted by this. And crucially, 
this complaint relates directly to the validity of the fees SDL have invoiced Mrs M for. And as 
Ive explained above, I think SDL were fair to charge these fees as they had authority to 
pursue Mrs Ms claim, which was successful because of the work they completed. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Sanderson Drake 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman