DRN-1745012
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt offer him any 
compensation in relation to the way it dealt with a claim he made on his appliance protection 
insurance policy.
 
All references to D&G include its agents. 
What happened
Mr P made a claim for accidental damage to his television under his policy with D&G. He 
said he was told someone would contact him to arrange an appointment but the following 
day he got a card through the post asking him to contact D&Gs repairers instead. Mr P said 
he waited at home for three days, but no one came to repair his television. He then 
complained to D&G.
D&G upheld Mr Ps complaint and acknowledged that he hadnt received a call from its 
repairers. But it said its repairers had visited his home the following day and left a card for 
him to call back. It apologised for any inconvenience but didnt offer any compensation. 
Mr P was unhappy with D&Gs response and complained to us. He said he had CCTV at his 
property and knew that D&Gs repairers hadnt been there. He said D&G didnt fully address 
his complaint as it didnt award him any compensation despite upholding it. 
D&G told us that despite admitting he had received the repairers card Mr P didnt call them 
to inspect the television. It said, instead, Mr P made a complaint about four days later and 
when it tried to contact him to inspect the television, he didnt arrange with the repairer to 
have the television picked up again. D&G said it agreed to replace the television without 
inspecting it despite this not being its normal process-as the television may well have been 
repairable- so Mr P was put in a better position than he wouldve otherwise been in. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld, for 
the reasons that D&G gave. He said if Mr P had evidence that D&Gs repairers didnt 
attended his property at all or that he had called them and they still failed to attend his 
property, he should provide it. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He said his CCTV showed that only his postman 
attended his property during those days. He said when he called D&G to complain he 
mentioned he had waited three days for someone to attend. He felt that D&G shouldve 
offered him around £30-£50 as a small gesture to apologise. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again but didnt uphold it. He said D&G provided a 
copy of the type of card that was left at Mr Ps property which states he needs to call the 
repairers and also a photo of Mr Ps front door which suggests that the repairers did attend. 
He also said it was unlikely the card was sent in the post as it arrived the day after the claim 
was made, which was a Sunday. Our investigator said as he hadnt seen any evidence that 
Mr P was asked to wait for three days, he would maintain his opinion. 
Mr P still disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Mr Ps policy says that if an item suffers accidental damage it will (at its choosing) authorise 
a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement. 
D&G said it didnt get a chance to inspect the television because Mr P didnt call the 
repairers to arrange this but agreed to a replacement nonetheless. It said this isnt its normal 
process which is to firstly inspect the damaged item. I can see that it would be reasonable to 
firstly inspect an item before agreeing how to proceed. I think, in these circumstances, D&G 
acted fairly and reasonably in agreeing to a replacement when it wasnt clear whether the 
damaged television was repairable or not. 
Mr P said he made a claim and was told he would receive a call back but didnt. D&G 
accepts that he didnt receive a call back, but it said its repairers did attend Mr Ps property 
the following day and left a card for him to call them as they didnt successfully make contact 
with him. Mr P accepts that he received the card.
D&G also provided a copy of the type of card that was left at Mr Ps property which says that 
he needs to get in touch with the repairers himself and that they had called round whilst he 
was out. D&G also provided a photograph of what it says is Mr Ps front door, which was 
taken by the repairers when they attended. 
Overall, based on this evidence and mainly because Mr P accepts he received the card the 
following day I think D&Gs repairers did attend his property when it said they did. Also, as 
our investigator said it would be unlikely for the card to have been sent to Mr P in the post, 
as he suggested, bearing in mind that his claim was made on Sunday and the card was 
received the next day. 
Mr P said he stayed home for three days waiting for the repairers and feels he should be 
compensated for this. As our investigator said I have seen no evidence that D&G asked him 
to do that and Ive also seen no evidence that he called the repairers as requested. Our 
investigator asked Mr P if he was able to provide any phone records, but he couldnt as he 
said his phone had been wiped. 
As I said above D&G accepts Mr P didnt get a call from its repairers, however, I think its 
repairers attending his home in person the day after he made his claim, made up for this 
failure. As D&G said it is unclear as to why Mr P would stay at home and wait for the 
repairers despite accepting that he had received a card from them the day after he made his 
claim asking him to call them. Even if Mr P did stay home waiting for D&Gs repairers, I dont 
think this was as a result of D&Gs actions. So, I wont be asking it to pay any compensation 
to Mr P in relation to this. 
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think D&G needs to do any more in relation to the way it handed his claim. My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman