DRN-3371614
The complaint
Mr H complains Santander UK Plc wont refund money he paid to someone who 
he employed to carry out landscaping work.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 December 2021. I wanted to give 
both parties a chance to submit any further information before my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What happened
Mr H engaged the services of a third party Ill call Mr P. Mr P advertised himself as a 
landscape gardener on a popular social media platform. Mr H discussed the required 
work on the phone with Mr P and received a quote by post. Mr P offered his services a 
little cheaper than Mr H had found elsewhere, but he was also persuaded to go with Mr 
P because they shared the same professional background.
Mr H paid a deposit and the cost of materials up front  a total of £7,000. He made the 
payments to a bank account apparently held in the name of Mr Ps partner. Mr P did turn 
up at Mr Hs property, but carried out only very limited work  leaving some of his tools 
behind (and the garden in a poor state).
Mr H has tried various routes to recover his money  even obtaining a County Court 
Judgement (which was later set aside because his private investigator had incorrectly 
traced Mr P). He also established that other people whod employed Mr P had suffered a 
similar experience.
There appears to have been some limited contact with Mr P after the works were 
abandoned. Messages provided by Mr H show Mr P was unhappy that Mr H had warned 
others about his services on the social media platform. There is also an exchange about 
the return of Mr Ps tools, which had been left in Mr Hs garden and were eventually 
collected by some associates of Mr P. Finally, in another exchange, Mr P says he cant 
complete the work because he has entered bankruptcy.
Mr H complained to Santander, but it felt the matter was a private civil dispute, rather 
than a scam, so it declined to provide a refund or look into things further.
Our investigator agreed with Santander. They thought that the circumstances meant that 
the case should not be considered under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code as it was a civil dispute.
Mr H disagreed, in summary he said:
-Mr P had no intention of finishing the work
-Only a few materials were delivered and the value of the tools left in his garden 
was less than £200
-The investigator failed to mention the other people that had the same experience
-Mr P had given a false name and address so he was impossible to trace
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to first point out that paying by bank transfer does not attract any of the 
same protections as paying by credit or debit card. The transactions were authorised by Mr 
H and therefore the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that Mr 
H rather than Santander will be responsible for them. Consequently, in order to ask 
Santander to reimburse Mr H, its not enough to show that Mr P was in breach of contract 
or even misrepresented his services, but rather that either:
-Santander ought reasonably to have recognised Mr H was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud at the time he was making the payments and their failure to 
intervene has caused his loss; or
-He ought to be reimbursed under the provisions of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code
Of course, Mr H didnt know about the problems hed have with Mr P at the time he made 
the payments. So, even if I were to conclude those payments were sufficiently out of 
character that Santander ought to have intervened and questioned them, it seems unlikely 
that either party would have concluded that a scam was taking place.
The CRM Code, introduced in 2019, is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push 
payment scams, but not civil disputes. Neither scam nor civil dispute are defined in the 
Code, but a scam can ordinarily be defined as a dishonest scheme. It suggests criminal 
wrongdoing intended to result in financial gain. On the other hand, civil disputes are 
generally those between private individuals about disputes which sit outside of criminal 
law.
So, in these circumstances, I need to consider whether Mr P set out to defraud  and of 
most relevance to that question is whether he ever had any intention of completing the 
agreed works. I think this is a very finely balanced case  it is very difficult to know what 
Mr Ps intentions were. However, there are a number of factors which persuade me that 
Mr P had no intention to finish the work he started.
Theres little about Mr P that can be found online now  just one or two traces of his 
landscaping business on social media. Theres no website, no reviews and nothing about 
Mr P himself. Ive also checked The Insolvency Register and there are no records under 
Mr Ps name  demonstrating that he did not enter bankruptcy as he claimed (or at least, 
not under that name).
Mr H says the police told him that Mr P was not the landscapers real name. He says he 
visited both addresses that hed been given for Mr P but he was unknown at both. While I 
havent seen independent evidence of this, I have seen evidence that Mr H hired a private 
investigator to track down Mr P. The private investigator, according to Mr H, mis-traced Mr P, an error which led to Mr Hs County Court Judgement against him being set aside. So, 
it does appear Mr P is difficult to locate and the evidence as a whole persuades me that 
he was using an alias.
There are lots of reasons why someone might use an alias and false address, but, in 
the circumstances, I dont think its an unreasonable assumption that this was done to 
prevent customers like Mr H from being able to contact Mr P.
Santander argue that Mr P wouldnt have turned up to the job, ordered materials and left 
his tools there if he had no intention of completing the work, particularly after already 
receiving payment. I understand this point but I dont put as much weight on it as the bank 
does. While many scams involve non-existent goods or services, rogue trader scams 
generally involve some work being carried out on a property  normally to a poor standard 
and/or at an inflated price. Such scams have a long history and the bank will be well 
aware of them. So, I dont think the fact Mr P did start the work is determinative  it may 
well have been a ploy to make it much more difficult for him to be prosecuted.
That idea is supported, I think, by evidence that Mr H has provided of two other people 
(though I understand there are others) who had the same experience around the same 
time. Though they do not give detailed descriptions of what happened, they both indicate 
that Mr P behaved largely in the same way as he did to Mr H. And, having considered 
information provided to me by the bank which received Mr Ps money, I think its actions 
are more representative of steps Id usually expect a bank to take in scam cases as 
opposed to civil disputes.
So, Mr P ran what appears to have been a short-lived business, likely under a false name 
and address with multiple unhappy customers claiming they paid Mr P but he didnt 
complete the work. On balance, this persuades me that he had no intention of completing 
the work and was running a dishonest scheme.
I also dont think this is a case of Mr H attempting to make a claim under the CRM Code 
because it is an easier alternative to pursuing the matter himself through the civil courts. 
Quite the opposite  Mr H appears to have made every effort to pursue the matter as a 
civil claim and has been unable to do so.
So, Im persuaded that the provisions of the CRM Code are relevant here.
Should Mr H be refunded under the CRM Code?
In order to refuse reimbursement under the CRM Code, Santander would need to rely 
on one of the exceptions it sets out. Those which may be of relevance here include:
-Mr H ignored an Effective Warning when making the payment
-Mr H made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that it 
was for genuine goods or services
As Santander considered this matter to be outside of the Code, it has not provided any 
submissions about whether it would have declined a claim even if it accepted Mr H had 
been the victim of a scam. If it wishes to make any arguments about this, or provide 
evidence of any warnings Mr H might have seen, then I invite it to do so in advance of my 
final decision.
I note that Mr H had spoken on the phone with Mr P and had received an invoice by 
post. While I think this reflects a certain degree of trust Mr H had in Mr P, perhaps due to their shared backgrounds, I dont think his behaviour was unreasonable.
The banks notes suggest Mr H did search online before going ahead with the payments 
and saw some positive reviews for Mr P. As already mentioned, I can find little about Mr P 
online now  but its clear he did have, at the very least, a social media profile and theres 
no reason for me to dispute what Mr H said to the bank at the time.
Ive also considered that had Mr H carried out more checks to satisfy himself that Mr P 
wasnt a scam  by, for example, asking to meet him in person then its likely Mr P 
would have agreed to this  after all he was prepared to come to Mr Hs home to carry 
out some work.
I understand Mr H had also been given a postal address for Mr P, which he wouldnt 
have known was false until he later made enquiries.
So, as it stands, Im persuaded that Mr H did have a reasonable basis for believing he 
was paying for legitimate services and, without any evidence of warnings Santander 
might have provided, he should be refunded under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
Based on the photographs Ive seen, its not apparent Mr H received any benefit from the 
work carried out by Mr P, so I dont think there should be a deduction from the refund.
Finally, regarding interest, the money lost clearly had a specific purpose and its clear Mr 
H has been deprived of those funds since Santander declined his claim under the CRM 
Code. So, I think that 8% simple interest per annum is fair here.
My provisional decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc and ask it to pay Mr H:
-The money lost - £7,000
-Interest at 8% simple per annum from the date it declined his claim to the 
date of settlement.
Mr H agreed with my provisional decision. Santander didnt. It asked to see some of the 
evidence which had been relied on in reaching the provisional decision and, having reviewed 
that evidence, in summary it said:
- It did not agree with my interpretation of the court documents that had been provided. 
It argued that Mr H may have simply given up trying to pursue the matter.
- It is firmly of the view that the dispute is as a result of a breakdown in the relationship 
between Mr H and Mr P and that Mr P would likely have returned to finish the work 
had the relationship not deteriorated. 
- Mr H raised a dispute in relation to someone else that he employed to rectify the 
works Mr P carried out.
- It doesnt agree there is enough evidence to support the claim Mr P used a false 
name and it believes that it may have identified Mr P living in another part of the 
country using the same name. It also argued that Mr Hs private investigators 
attempts to identify him appear to be inadequate.
- It pointed to inconsistencies in the call Mr H had with it  saying he claimed not to 
have known that he was paying the personal account of Mr Ps partner at the time 
the payment was made.- The invoice didnt make it clear how the final price had been agreed and the court 
documents showed that Mr H was claiming a lower amount from Mr P than he sought 
to recover from the bank
In response, Mr H expressed his surprise that the bank had been able to locate Mr P  
despite the efforts of bailiffs that had been acting on his behalf. However, he was able to 
confirm that what the bank said was true, but that Mr P had since moved on.
Mr H also provided some further evidence including his subsequent attempts to pursue the 
outstanding debt. He clarified that despite the initial judgement being set aside, he was able 
to obtain another judgement against Mr P and Mr Ps partner. 
The documents show that he was able to track down Mr Ps partner to another property in 
November 2020. Bailiffs attended the property but were unable to enter due to pandemic 
restrictions in place at the time. Mr Ps partner confirmed to the bailiffs that Mr P had moved 
to another part of the country and was using an alias. Its clear from the statements made 
that she was no longer in a relationship with Mr P. A further email from the bailiffs to Mr H 
shows that they were unable to trace Mr P in June 2021. A final visit was paid to Mr Ps now 
ex-partner early this year  but there was nobody at home and they were unable to recover 
any money.
Mr H also provided some further supporting evidence to show that another alleged victim 
had received their money back from their bank as well as an exchange of messages that 
took place soon after the original events between Mr H and another victim of Mr P 
discussing their attempts to track him down. 
Santander was of the view that the additional evidence did little to support Mr Hs position  
only further demonstrating that this was a private civil dispute.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the strength of feeling on both sides of this dispute and, as Ive said, this is a 
finely balanced case and one that Ive considered carefully. 
Both sides now accept that Mr P appears to have moved to another part of the country to 
work at a pub. He did so under the same name he used to communicate with Mr H and 
appears to continue to use the same social media account. Based on local media articles, he 
also doesnt appear to be particularly secretive about his presence there.
However, whether Mr P is now traceable is not the determinative factor here. And, neither is 
the fact the police dont appear to be pursuing Mr P. I need to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether Mr Ps intention was to defraud Mr H by taking his money without any 
intention to complete the work. 
The evidence Ive seen continues to suggest that Mr P operated a short lived business and, 
seemingly after taking money from a number of customers, left not just the area, but his line 
of work, to move to another part of the country. Mr Ps ex-partners testimony also does 
suggest an alias was being used by Mr H (albeit one he seemingly continues to use). I dont 
know whether her claim is true  but the other information provided by her is consistent with 
what we now know of Mr Ps movements. And while Santander may have been able to trace 
Mr P through social media, I dont discount Mr Hs testimony that Mr P was unknown at the addresses he provided and nor the evidence that his private investigator and, seemingly, the 
bailiffs were unable to locate him.
I think Its also relevant that Mr H paid Mr Ps ex-partner and not Mr P himself. Evidence 
from the bank which received Mr Hs money suggests that Mr H wasnt alone in doing this. 
While there clearly may  be a number of reasons why Mr P couldnt or didnt want to receive 
the money himself, the fact the payments went to his ex-partner and not Mr P would 
inevitably make it more difficult for the payments to be linked back to him. 
Whether Mr H knew or ought to have known that the account belonged to Mr Ps partner 
isnt, I think, particularly relevant in deciding whether what happened was a scam or civil 
dispute. 
I dont think the evidence supports Santanders characterisation of the circumstances  that 
is that Mr H was fundamentally unhappy with the quality of the work, leading him to refuse to 
return Mr Ps tools and pursue legal action. Santander seem to suggest that Mr P would 
have continued to carry out the work but for Mr Hs unhappiness.
Mr Hs testimony, supported by messages between him and Mr P, suggests that it was Mr 
Ps unwillingness or inability to return and complete the work which led to the disagreement, 
not the quality of the work. In any case, the work completed by Mr P seems to be nothing 
more than digging up the garden.
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Santander when he reported the fraud. I dont 
think it supports the conclusion that Santander have reached. Though Mr H references the 
condition of the garden, in my view, it is clear that hes referring to the condition it is in 
because it has been dug up and left  not a complaint about the quality of the digging. 
The fact other customers of Mr P have had similar complaints also does not suggest that Mr 
H was simply being unreasonable, and I dont think the subsequent dispute that Mr H raised 
has any bearing on this one. The later dispute was clearly about the quality of the work 
carried out. Its also worth noting that I understand a significant amount of the sum Mr H was 
paid was for materials, materials that never arrived and may never have been ordered.
I dont share Santanders concerns about the invoice provided to Mr H, it seems to largely 
reflect the payments he made (albeit he did not make them in cash)  a deposit of £2,000 
followed by further payments for materials. 
However, Ive thought about the amount that Mr H should be able to recover from Santander 
and, after careful consideration, agree that amount should mirror the lower amount he 
claimed through the courts. Mr H has explained that this figure represents a deduction from 
the amount paid based on the cost of the items that were delivered and couldnt be returned 
and the cost of the hiring of a skip which he was unable to cancel. As Mr H may have had 
some benefit from these items, its fair that the lower sum should be awarded. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im still of the view that Mr H has been the victim of a 
scam, rather than a civil dispute. And, as Santander havent made any further submissions 
in relation to its or Mr Hs liability under the CRM Code, my decision largely remains 
unchanged, other than I slightly reduce the amount Santander should pay to Mr H.
Im mindful of the risk of double recovery here but I think it is unlikely given Mr Hs previous 
attempts to recover the money and the costs involved in him continuing to do so. However, 
in the unlikely event of any money being recovered by Mr H he has agreed to repay it to 
Santander.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc and instruct it to pay Mr H:
- The amount claimed by him - £6,502.05
- Interest at 8% simple per annum on the above amount from the date it 
declined his claim to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman