DRN-3615058
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday), 
irresponsibly granted him credit that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Everyday provided several loans to Mr M, as follows:
Date taken Amount 
receivedPlus interest Date repaid
Loan 1 22/7/2009 £1,681.50 £1,054.70 19/3/2010
Loan 2 19/3/2010 £1,893.50 £761.21 22/7/2011
Loan 3 25/2/2011 £2,890 £1,265.37 25/11/2011
Loan 4 22/7/2011 £4,090 £3,165.19 10/12/2012
Loan 5 10/12/2012 £5,202.49 £7,157.73 Settled
Mr M said they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable.
Everyday disagreed. They said that when they approved the loan applications they reviewed 
Mr Ms credit file and gathered information on his income and expenditure from payslips and 
bank statements. They noted he was in regular employment with a salary of around £1,800 
per month and not paying any board to his parents who he lived with throughout the period 
the loans were provided. The credit files showed them that Mr M had no County Court 
Judgements and few additional credit agreements in place and Everyday didnt see anything 
in that information that would suggest the loans werent affordable for Mr M. 
Our investigator thought that Everyday shouldnt have provided loans four and five and 
suggested Everyday should take some action to remedy the situation. But as Everyday didnt 
respond to her view on the complaint it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loans 1, 2 and 3.
I think Everyday completed proportionate checks before approving these loans. They 
reviewed Mr Ms credit file and checked his income and expenditure through his wage slips 
and bank statements. That information suggested Mr M had few other credit commitments 
and sufficient disposable income to afford the relatively modest repayments on these loans. 
There was an historic default on his account from 2006 with an outstanding balance, but as 
that was historic and Mr M was managing his previous credit commitments well I dont think 
that ought to have raised concerns about the affordability of the borrowing.
Loan 4 and 5
I think Everyday completed proportionate checks here as well. They reviewed Mr Ms credit 
file and checked his income and expenditure through his wage slips and bank statements. 
But I think at this point the business should have realised Mr M was becoming over reliant on 
this form of credit. His indebtedness on his credit agreements was increasing and this was 
the fourth time hed renewed his lending with Everyday. Mr Ms bank account was always 
close to the overdraft limit and hed been charged a return fee on his current account the 
month before his application. I think this information should have persuaded Everyday that 
Mr M was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the fourth loan and they shouldnt have 
approved it.
By the time Mr M applied for loan 5 his indebtedness on his credit agreements had 
increased further and hed defaulted on two accounts a couple of months earlier with a 
balance of £880 unpaid. The interest rate on this new lending was higher than had 
previously been provided and I think it was very clear at that point that Mr M was struggling 
financially and wouldnt be likely to be able to sustainably afford the loan being offered. I 
dont think Everyday were responsible when providing this loan either.
Putting things right
To settle Mr Ms complaint, Everyday should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given 
loans 4 and 5. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr M for the capital amount 
only.
Once the capital has been repaid, remove any adverse information recorded on Mr 
Ms credit file relating to loans 4 and 5.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell Everyday Lending Limited to put things right in the manner 
Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman