DRN-2457542
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) handling, and offer of settlement, on a 
building insurance claim he made following a fire at his property. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020, explaining that I was 
intending to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
 
Mr H made a claim to UKI about a fire at his property in January 2018. There was 
extensive fire and smoke damage throughout the house as well as water damage 
caused during extinguishment.
UKI, through its agents, visited the property and produced a schedule of repairs for 
tender. Mr H also asked his own contractor to quote for the works  which came in 
significantly higher than UKIs. There was also disagreement over certain elements of 
the claim, such as the kitchen.
Mr H has complained that UKI caused significant delays in his claim by failing to 
accept that his kitchen requires replacement. He also says UKI hasnt included 
multiple items in its offer of settlement, including his lawn and garden gate which 
were damaged by the fire service. 
UKI says that the delays in the claim have been caused by Mr H refusing to agree to 
a joint site visit to establish whether the kitchen was repairable or if it needed 
replacing. It also says Mr H hasnt always provided information when he has been 
asked to do so.
A joint site visit did eventually take place. Mr H says UKIs agents agreed the kitchen 
needed replacing. But UKIs agents say this isnt correct. They thought it could be 
repaired but said it would require a further assessment from an expert to confirm for 
certain. UKI attempted to arrange a further joint site visit, but Mr H didnt agree this 
was reasonable. This is because he had already provided several quotes/reports 
from his own experts who had stated the kitchen needed to be replaced.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She said the claim had been ongoing for several years with little 
progress on resolving the dispute over the kitchen. She accepted that Mr H had 
delayed matters by not agreeing to the site visit initially. But she highlighted that 
when he later did agree to the site visit, it still didnt resolve matters. She quoted from 
the reports Mr H had completed on the kitchen, and said she felt UKI should accept 
the kitchen couldnt be repaired. She said UKI should pay Mr H the cost of his lowest 
quote plus a 10% uplift, complete all remaining works and pay Mr H £750 
compensation for the delays it caused.
UKI didnt agree with our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main element of the complaint still in dispute is whether Mr Hs kitchen can be 
repaired or if it requires replacement. However, there are also other areas of the 
claim which remain in dispute. For ease of reference, Ill address these separately.
The kitchen
It isnt in dispute that Mr Hs kitchen has been damaged by the extinguishment of the 
fire, or that this damage is covered by Mr Hs policy. The issue I need to decide is 
whether UKIs position that the damage can be repaired is fair and reasonable, taking 
into account the evidence available.
 
The first reference Ive seen to the damage to the kitchen is in the preliminary report 
completed by UKIs loss adjuster in January 2018. This states that, the kitchen has 
suffered from extensive water damage to the point that the ceilings and wall plaster 
will need to be removed and the bespoke kitchen units replaced. So, during the first 
inspection after the incident, the loss adjuster thought the units needed to be 
replaced.
Following this, the scope of works was produced toward the end of February 2018. 
This stated that the units needed only to be removed, repaired and reused. But I 
havent seen any detailed reasoning to explain the change in approach here.
Mr H provided his own quote for the remedial works to his property, from a local 
contractor, in March 2018. In relation to the kitchen this stated:
As a manufacturer of bespoke kitchens, I have inspected the kitchen on site. 
When I attended site there was considerable water damage to the area. The 
drawer boxes had water sitting in them and the base cupboards had water 
laying on the base. I have since been back to site now the building has been 
dried out to make an assessment of the cabinet work in the kitchen area. The 
carcasses are made from TLM timber. This is an engineered timber glued 
together. The timber is showing signs of warping and on test still had a high 
moisture content and this adhesive is not a waterproof therefore the integrity 
of the carcass would be in question. It is impossible to inspect the rear of the 
carcasses but I expect there will be inherent moisture still in the walls etc 
casing further damage to the carcasssing material 
The fronts and end panel of the kitchen cabinet work are made from 
European oak. This has a clear sealer finish and is showing signs of water 
staining, especially to the front frames where they extend down to the floor 
and the open end grain of the timber has drawn the moisture up into the 
framework. This staining would be almost impossible to remove. 
Fitting and fixtures to the cabinet work are not stainless therefore the drawer 
runners will not be functioning correctly and over a period of time rust staining 
will show through around fixing etc. I do not believe that this cabinet work 
could be salvaged, therefore I have allowed for replacement cost on a like for 
like basis.Then in June 2018 Mr H provided comments from a joiner from a different firm which 
stated:
Further to my inspection on 8th June of your bespoke oak kitchen at the 
above address, under much consideration I do not believe this to be 
repairable due to the amount of water damage both inside and outside of the 
units. Also staining and discolouration along the bottom sections will be 
impossible to now bring back to its original state of colour.
These reports/quotes were supplied to UKI, but it didnt agree they were sufficient to 
evidence that the kitchen required replacement. In September 2018 it asked to 
arrange a joint site visit with Mr H and his contractor to assess this.
 
Mr H didnt agree to the joint site visit until May 2019  a delay of around eight 
months.
 
There are differing opinions about what was said at the joint site visit. Mr H says that 
UKIs loss adjuster and surveyor were in agreement that the kitchen required 
replacement. But UKI say this is not the case. They say they told Mr H that if the 
kitchen required replacement that his policy would cover it. But in their view, his 
kitchen could likely be repaired. They said they wanted to arrange another visit with 
their own specialist and Mr Hs joiner present, so that they could finalise this element 
of the claim. 
Mr H didnt agree that a further visit was necessary or would be helpful. He felt he 
had provided all the information requested of him and that UKI should settle his 
claim, including for replacement of his kitchen. It was around this time that he brought 
his complaint to our service.
UKI has stated that Mr Hs quotes cant be relied on because a kitchen company will 
always try to sell a whole kitchen rather than only half. It also stated that the reports 
Mr H supplied were non-specific. UKI has suggested that some of the damage to the 
lower units could have been caused when mopping the floors over many years, as 
opposed to by the extinguishment of the fire. It also said that Mr Hs joiner had told 
UKI that he would need to reattend in order to say for certain whether the units could 
be repaired or required replacement. For these reasons UKI felt the kitchen part of 
Mr Hs claim couldnt move forward without a further visit. But it offered to pay for Mr 
Hs joiner to reattend as part of a further joint visit.No further joint site visit has taken place. But in February 2020, Mr H had his joiner 
reattend the property and produce a further report on whether the kitchen could be 
satisfactorily repaired. This stated:
After a sight (sic) visit of Mr and Mrs Hs kitchen to the address above I have 
noted a large amount of damage due to water.
The list of damage is as follows;
1/ Dark blue staining due to reaction of water and metal hinges on all oak 
doors.
2/ Swelling and warping to drawers / doors which have not gone back to a 
suitable standard.
3/ Internal carcassing swollen with water staining.
4/ All drawer and door fronts / side panels have risen grain and impossible to 
sand out due to top lacquer.
5/ All door panels have water marks in due to the bespoke design of grooves 
around door frames which held the
water.
In my 20 years experience of running a Joinery Business I can say that this 
Kitchen cannot be repaired in any way to a satisfactory standard.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and arguments provided by both sides. I 
dont think it was unreasonable of UKI to insist on a joint site visit to inspect the 
kitchen before a decision could be made on whether the kitchen required replacing. 
However, I note that it was eventually able to attend a visit, and the outcome of this 
was that it wanted to appoint a further specialist to attend another visit. I dont think 
this was a reasonable position to take.
I say this because UKI had the opportunity to attend the property to assess the 
kitchen following Mr Hs initial two reports. So, I think it was incumbent upon it to 
ensure that any representatives it sent to this site visit were suitably qualified to 
establish whether the kitchen was repairable or needed replacing. After all, this was 
the purpose of the visit. But based on the comments of those in attendance, I dont 
think it did so. So, Ill be making my decision based on the evidence available.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely based on the available evidence 
and arguments.
UKI has argued that the reports provided by Mr H are non-specific. It also suggests 
that they are unreliable as the suppliers have a commercial interest in stating the 
kitchen needs to be replaced. And it is the opinion of UKIs loss adjuster and 
surveyor that the kitchen should be able to be repaired.
Ive carefully considered UKIs arguments. I dont agree that the reports provided by 
Mr H are non-specific. The initial quote/report gives detailed reasoning as to why 
various parts of the kitchen cant be repaired. And the second joiners report does the 
same. Mr H has also provided multiple photos of the damaged units, which appear to 
be consistent with the comments of his appointed experts.
I agree that Mr Hs contractors/joiners would potentially have a commercial interest in 
stating the kitchen needs replacing. But equally, UKIs loss adjuster and surveyor 
have an interest in saying it can be repaired, as part of their role is to keep the cost of 
the claim down. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to place more or less 
weight on the opinion of either set of experts, based solely on this argument.From UKI, I have the opinion of its loss adjuster and surveyor stating that the kitchen 
can likely be repaired  although caveated with the suggestion that a further expert 
opinion would be needed to say for sure. From Mr H, I have the opinion of a 
manufacturer of bespoke kitchens and a joiner, with many years experience, stating 
that it will be impossible to repair the damage to a satisfactory standard. Both sets of 
experts appear to be qualified to make a determination on the kitchen. But looking at 
the reports and comments provided, I find those supplied by Mr H more persuasive. I 
say this because they give more detailed reasoning than anything provided by UKIs 
loss adjuster or surveyor  who have essentially said they believe the units could be 
repaired, but that a further specialist would need to be appointed first. I also think the 
fact that the loss adjusters initial view, that the kitchen would need replacing, adds 
further weight to Mr Hs arguments.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that the kitchen cannot be satisfactorily repaired. So, I think UKI should meet 
the cost of replacing Mr Hs kitchen as part of the claim settlement.
I dont think it would be fair to allow UKI additional time to source its own quote for 
replacement of the kitchen at such a late stage. And I understand that Mr H has 
already provided UKI with three separate quotes for the like for like replacement of 
the kitchen. So, Im currently minded to decide that UKI should meet the cost of the 
lowest quote supplied by Mr H.
 
That said, it appears these quotes were obtained by Mr H in 2018, so I think its likely 
the costs will have increased since then. So, I think it would be fair for UKI to honour 
the cost of an updated quote, on the same like for like basis, from the same supplier.
 
Drying the property
Following the water damage caused by extinguishment of the fire, Mr H paid to have 
his property dried out. The reason for this is in dispute. Mr H says the company 
appointed by UKI to complete the drying didnt turn up, which left him needing to 
carry it out himself. UKIs agent says it was able to attend but Mr H wasnt home or 
able to be available before their next appointments. And before it could rearrange 
another date, Mr H had proceeded with drying himself.
Its difficult to say from the available testimony which of the above is more likely than 
the other. But I dont think I need to decide this. The important thing is that Mr H paid 
for the drying to take place, and that the costs for doing this would have been 
covered by his policy. So, if it hasnt already done so, I think UKI should reimburse 
these costs. However, I think its fair that UKI can limit the amount it reimburses to 
the amount it would have cost for its drying experts to complete this work. I say this 
because I can see that it UKI had instructed its experts from the outset, and that they 
could have reattended to complete the works at a later date.
 
UKI should also pay interest on the amount it reimburses, from the date Mr H was out 
of pocket until the date he is reimbursed.
Additional food costs while in temporary accommodation
Mr H has complained that UKI refused to pay for groceries and clothing while his 
family were forced to stay in a hotel.
 Ive seen the emails between Mr H and UKI where it explained the expenses it would 
and wouldnt cover. It told Mr H it would pay £10 per day, per adult and £5 per day 
per child toward additional expenses  which were expenses over and above what 
Mr H would normally have spent. UKI explained that groceries were expenses that 
would have always needed to be paid for by Mr H, which is why they werent 
covered. It also explained that Mr Hs policy didnt include contents cover, so 
replacement clothing wouldnt be covered.
 
Taking into account everything Ive seen, I think UKI has handled this element of Mr 
Hs claim fairly. The amount it paid toward additional expenses is in line with that 
usually awarded by our service in similar cases. And I wouldnt expect it to provide 
cover for replacement clothing because that cover isnt included in Mr Hs policy.
Other items in dispute
Mr H has also highlighted several areas of his claim that he feels are in dispute. 
These are his garden gate and lawn, lounge carpet, roof repair invoice, electricians 
invoice and additional heating costs.
UKI says it has advised Mr H that all these items would/could be covered by his 
policy, subject to him providing suitable evidence of the damage and of the repairs he 
has had carried out. Following receipt of numerous invoices and quotes, UKI has 
now confirmed to our service that it will pay the invoice for the damaged lawn, the 
electricians invoice and for the logs used to heat the property.
  
However, it seems that UKI is still reluctant to agree to a number of the items Mr H 
wishes to claim for. These are the temporary roof repairs he had completed following 
the fire, the damage to his garden gate, which he says was caused by the fire 
service, and replacement of his lounge carpet  which it has agreed in principle 
despite Mr H not having contents cover. Ill address each separately.
 
Mr H has provided an invoice for the roof repairs totalling £750. But UKI says it wont 
pay this because the invoice doesnt detail the works which were carried out and 
doesnt contain the company or VAT number for the firm that carried out the repairs. 
Mr H has explained that the company he used were not VAT registered so he isnt 
able to provide an invoice which includes that information. But he has described the 
work which was carried out as follows:
I can confirm that a tower was used to access the roof and that all the burnt 
through battens were replaced and removed. The roof tiles that could not be 
fixed to the batterns (sic) have been temporarily cemented in place until major 
repair work can commence. The lower roof has also temporarily been 
repaired due to firemen trying to gain access to the upper roof area.
Ive thought carefully about UKIs concerns with the invoice. But I also note that its 
own loss adjuster confirmed in the preliminary report that Mr H had, taken great 
steps to complete a weather tight temporary repair. And I note that preventing 
further loss is a requirement of the policy. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for UKI to refuse to cover these repairs.In terms of the damage to the garden gate, Mr H has explained that the fire damaged 
the home electrics and meant that the gate was unable to open for the fire service. 
Due to this, he says the gate was forced open, causing damage to the posts, sensor 
and gate itself. Mr H says that UKIs loss adjuster and surveyor agreed that the 
damage to the gate would be covered, and that his case handler asked him to obtain 
a quote for the required works.
I can see from internal communications that UKIs loss adjuster had concerns that 
the gate may not have been damaged in the way suggested by Mr H. Although I 
havent seen anything to suggest that these concerns were shared with Mr H. In fact, 
as I understand it, UKI decided it would cover this damage as a gesture of goodwill, 
and Mr H was asked to obtain quotes for the required repair work. This was 
confirmed to me by UKI during a conference call in August 2020.
 
Since this call, UKI has said it isnt prepared to make a payment for the gate. It says 
the images of the damage dont show any clear impact damage, beyond a graze to 
the post. It also says the gate is clearly old and has reiterated the loss adjusters 
earlier concerns.
From what Ive seen, Mr Hs testimony on the damage to his gate has remained 
consistent throughout his claim. And UKI has had numerous opportunities to share its 
concerns about the damage to the gate, or to request that Mr H do more to evidence 
his position. But it hasnt done so. In fact, it has told Mr H, and our service, that it 
would cover the damaged gate. Mr H has now provided a quote for the damage 
which includes a breakdown of the works required and the full registered details of 
the company who produced the quote. So, based on the above, I think UKI should 
honour the offer it made to Mr H and settle this element of his claim.
UKI has agreed to cover the cost of replacing Mr Hs lounge carpet as a gesture of 
goodwill  despite him not having contents cover. But it says it isnt prepared to do 
this yet, because it isnt satisfied with the quote Mr H has provided. This is because it 
doesnt include the measurements for the room or any confirmation that the carpet 
quoted for is a like for like replacement of the existing carpet.
From what Ive seen, Mr H has provided our service with a further letter from the 
carpet shop which confirms both of these things, and our service has shared this with 
UKI. So, I think UKI should cover the cost of the quote supplied by Mr H, in line with 
the offer it has already made.
Finally, UKI has pointed out that one of the log invoices provided by Mr H is from 
2020. It says it offered to settle the remainder of the claim, while the kitchen was still 
in dispute, in 2019  which would have meant the works to the heating system could 
have been completed before the date of this invoice. So, it doesnt agree that it 
should cover the cost of this invoice. I think this is fair and reasonable.Delays
Each side believes that the other is responsible for the length of time it has taken to 
reach this point. UKI says that it initially offered a joint site visit to resolve the kitchen 
issue in September 2018, but that Mr H didnt agree to this until May 2018. Had the 
visit been agreed, UKI asserts that the claim would have been able to be resolved 
long before now. UKI has also pointed out that it offered to pay the cash settlement 
for the remainder of claim, while the dispute over the kitchen was resolved, to 
prevent any further delays.
Mr H says that UKI has caused the delays by refusing to accept the expert evidence 
he provided and continuing to insist on further, unnecessary site visits. He says he 
has provided everything he has been asked to and feels UKI should have settled his 
claim before now.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said. From what Ive seen, the 
claim progressed largely as I would have expected it to, up until the dispute over the 
kitchen arose. As Ive already stated, I think it was reasonable of UKI to insist on a 
joint site visit to establish whether the kitchen could be repaired or not. And I dont 
think UKI is responsible for the eight-month delay between it offering this and the 
meeting taking place.
 
As the kitchen issue remained in dispute, UKI offered to settle the remainder of the 
claim while this dispute was resolved, but Mr H didnt want to accept this offer. Then 
in February 2020, Mr H obtained a further report from his joiner and shared this with 
UKI. I think at this stage, if not before, UKI should have accepted that the kitchen 
couldnt be repaired to a satisfactory standard. So, because it didnt, I think UKI is 
responsible for the delays between then and now, and the impact they have had on 
Mr H and his family.
 
In order to fairly compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience this period of 
delay has caused, I think UKI should pay him £300. In arriving at this figure, Ive 
taken into account UKIs offer to settle the remainder of the claim while the kitchen 
dispute was ongoing. I think this was a fair and reasonable compromise which would 
have allowed Mr H to complete the majority of the required works. So, I dont think 
UKI is solely at fault for the fact that most of the works remain uncompleted  which I 
think has added to the impact of the delays. Ive also taken into account the fact that 
several of the quotes/invoices for some of the additional items in dispute have only 
been provided following our services involvement  which would have caused delays 
in any case.
Overall, Im currently of the view that £300 is enough to fairly reflect the impact of the 
delays which UKI is solely responsible for.
I asked both sides to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision.
To summarise, Mr H broadly accepted my provisional findings, but he asked that I consider 
directing UKI to uplift the remaining claim settlement to account for the difference in costs 
between 2018 and 2020.UKI didnt accept my provisional findings. It explained that it had never received the 
joinery report from Mr Hs expert in February 2020  which was the basis of my decision that 
the kitchen needed to be replaced and that UKI should pay Mr H some compensation for 
delays. It also raised further points about the drying of the property, temporary roof repairs 
and the damage to the electric gate.
Ive since reconsidered my provisional findings in light of all the additional comments and 
evidence. Ive also corresponded at length with both sides to explain which findings I 
intended to maintain, and which I intended to change. Ill cover the reasoning for any 
changes in my findings below.
 
Ive now received and considered the final comments from both sides, so Im proceeding 
with this, my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive also carefully considered the new comments and evidence sent in response to my 
provisional decision. As with my provisional decision, Ill address each issue separately.
Items not in dispute
In response to my provisional decision, both sides have confirmed they are happy with the 
position over the carpet quote, electrical invoice, lawn quote and log invoices.
Mr H has suggested he may be able to provide a replacement, dated, version of the log 
invoice UKI said it wouldnt cover. If he can produce a dated invoice, I would expect UKI to 
consider it.
 
Temporary roof repair
In my provisional decision, I said I thought it was unfair for UKI to refuse to cover the 
temporary roof repairs Mr H had completed, based on the fact that its own loss adjuster had 
commented on the lengths Mr H had gone to, to ensure the property was weathertight 
following the fire.
In response, UKI referred me back to the claims conditions in the policy document, which 
states:
For any claim you must:
 Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of 
ownership or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You 
will have to do this at your own expense
UKI reiterated that the invoice provided for these repairs is not sufficient to evidence how the 
amount of £750 was reached. It doesnt contain a breakdown of the works completed or 
materials needed  such as scaffolding, tiles, tarpaulin etc. UKI said it would be happy to 
settle the invoice in full, but only if a more detailed version could be supplied by the 
contractor who completed the works.I discussed this with Mr H, but he explained he wouldnt be able to obtain further evidence 
from the contractor. But he has explained he feels UKI could only fairly refuse to cover the 
invoice if it had inspected the works at the time and highlighted works or costs that they 
deemed unreasonable. Because it didnt, he feels its unfair to dispute the invoice at this late 
stage.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs argument here. But as UKI has highlighted, it is his 
responsibility to evidence his claim and I can understand UKIs reluctance to settle an 
invoice which doesnt include a breakdown of works and materials.
 
That said, as I explained in my provisional decision, it doesnt feel fair for UKI to refuse the 
invoice in full when it has accepted that Mr H did carry out some temporary repairs to protect 
the property from further damage. In these circumstances, I think the fairest thing to do is for 
the parties to compromise on this aspect of the claim. So, to settle this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint, UKI should pay 50% of the temporary roof repair invoice.
 
UKI should also be prepared to consider the full amount, if Mr H is able to provide the 
additional evidence it has asked for from his contractor.
Drying the property
There is a dispute over the reason why UKIs drying company didnt set up drying equipment 
at Mr Hs property on the agreed day. Because it didnt, Mr H purchased his own drying 
equipment and attended his property regularly to move the equipment around as required.
In my provisional decision, I said I thought it would be fair for UKI to reimburse Mr H for this, 
up to the amount it would have cost for its experts to complete the drying.
 
In response, UKI explained it would be extremely difficult to calculate the amount it would 
have cost to dry the property now, because several years have passed and the property is 
already dry. However, it said it would be happy to pay this cost in full, providing Mr H was 
able to substantiate his costs.
 
Mr H has been unable to provide invoices for equipment, so Im not directing UKI to make 
any award for this.
Im also not making any award for the time Mr H spent drying his property. I say this because 
I think it was Mr Hs choice to purchase his own drying equipment when the first meeting 
with UKIs expert was missed (regardless of whose fault that was). The appointment could 
have been rearranged, which would have prevented Mr H from needing to carry out the 
drying himself. But I cant see that any attempt to rearrange this was made before Mr H 
decided to purchase his own equipment.
 
So, as completing the drying himself was ultimately Mr Hs decision, I dont think it would be 
fair to direct UKI to pay anything for the time he spent carrying this out.
Garden gate
 
My provisional finding that UKI should meet Mr Hs invoice for replacement of his garden 
gate system was based on the understanding that it had already agreed to do so  subject to 
receipt of a quote. But UKI has explained that it had only agreed to consider a quote, not 
meet it in full.UKI explained it still had concerns about whether the gate had, in fact, been damaged in the 
way Mr H suggested. I obtained further comments and photos from Mr H about the damage 
to his gate. UKI responded and explained that it didnt agree the photos and explanations 
were sufficient to evidence that a 12-tonne fire truck forced open the gate. Had it done so, 
UKI said it would expect much more severe and visible damage. It pointed out that a piece of 
wood that ran across the centre of the gate was undamaged and said it wasnt clear why the 
posts would need to be replaced. However, UKI said it would be prepared to meet 50% of 
the quote Mr H supplied.
I hadnt previously considered whether the available evidence showed that the damage was 
most likely caused by the fire brigade and so should be covered  because I was under the 
incorrect impression that UKI has already accepted this and agreed to replace the gate.
 
Having now considered this, I cant reasonably conclude that the damage to the gate was 
more likely to have been caused in the way Mr H has suggested, than it was by some other 
means. I say this because I havent seen anything showing the condition of the gates prior to 
the fire or any contemporaneous evidence from the time to support Mr Hs testimony that the 
fire service caused all of the damage visible in the photos.
 
So, in these circumstances, I think UKIs offer to cover 50% of Mr Hs quotation for a full 
replacement of the gate system is fair and reasonable.
 
Kitchen
My provisional finding that UKI ought to have accepted Mr Hs kitchen required replacement 
in February 2020 was based on the understanding that it had received the second report 
from Mr Hs joiner  which was completed then. But in response to my provisional decision, 
UKI explained that it had never received that report.
Having now received the report, UKI accepts that the kitchen needs to be replaced. But it 
doesnt agree that it should pay for an uplift in the quote to 2020 prices. This is because it 
says it offered the joint site visit in September 2018, then after this took place in May 2019, it 
offered to pay for Mr Hs joiner to reattend to confirm his position. UKI says that had these 
offers been accepted, agreement over the kitchen would have been reached a long time 
ago.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said about this issue. As I mentioned 
in my provisional decision, I agree that UKI isnt responsible for the eight-month delay 
between offering a site visit in September 2018 and it taking place in May 2019. UKI has 
also since clarified that when it asked for another visit after May 2019, this wasnt to appoint 
a new expert but to have Mr Hs joiner reattend. This was because the joiner had told UKI he 
would need to reattend in order to say for certain that the kitchen needed replacing. Mr H 
eventually paid for his joiner to return himself, but this was a further nine months later. So, I 
dont think I can reasonably hold UKI responsible for that delay either.
 
UKI has confirmed that it is prepared to meet the cost of Mr Hs lowest kitchen quote from 
2018, and that it will uplift this by 10% to account for some of the time which has elapsed. 
Taking everything into account, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.The remainder of the claim
Mr H has asked me to direct UKI to uplift the remaining claim settlement to account for the 
increase in prices between 2018 and 2020. In order to decide this, I need to consider 
whether UKI is responsible for the time which has elapsed between it initially making the 
offer and now.
UKI says that in 2018, Mr H believed the scope and costs were incorrect. It says this, along 
with the kitchen dispute, is why it offered a joint site visit in September 2018  which Mr H 
didnt agree to until May 2019. UKI feels it would be unfair for it to be required to pay for an 
uplift in costs when it didnt cause this delay.
Mr H says UKI could have made the offer to settle the parts of the claim not in dispute in 
September 2018  rather than in 2019. Had it done so, he says he would have accepted 
this, and the claim would have been able to move forward. Mr H has also pointed out that 
UKI was in possession of the original joiner report he supplied at this stage, which stated 
that the kitchen required replacement. He feels the delays are due to UKI.
 
Ive thought carefully about this point. I accept that UKI was in possession of Mr Hs joiners 
initial report. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of UKI to insist on a joint site visit, based on the information it had received. I say this 
because its experts were advising that the kitchen could be replaced. And although Mr H 
had provided his joiners initial report  I dont think was detailed or specific enough to mean 
that UKI should disregard the views of its loss adjuster and surveyor.
 
Following the joint site visit, there were still issues in dispute, so UKI offered to partially settle 
Mr Hs claim while that dispute was resolved. Mr H has argued that this offer ought to have 
been made in September 2018, rather than May 2019. Ive considered this, but even if UKI 
had made the offer to partially settle the claim in September 2018, I dont think its likely that 
Mr H would have accepted it. I say this because he didnt accept the offer, when it was 
made, in 2019. So, I think its more likely than not that had this been offered in September 
2018 Mr H would have declined it.
Ultimately, I think it was reasonable of UKI to suggest a joint site visit to resolve the issues in 
2018. Had this been accepted at the time, I think the disputes with the remaining scope 
(aside from the kitchen) could have been resolved. So, taking all the circumstances into 
account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect UKI to cover any uplift in costs 
from the original scope.
Compensation
In my provisional decision I suggested that UKI should compensate Mr H £300 for the time 
which had passed since February 2020, based on the understanding that UKI received a 
copy of the second joiners report in February 2020.
I now know that UKI didnt receive a copy of this report until after my provisional decision. 
So, as its now apparent that UKI only became aware of the second joiners report recently, I 
no longer believe it should pay any compensation for delays. This is because I cant 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for not acting on a report that it wasnt provided with. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
In order to put things right, UK Insurance Limited must:
Meet the cost of replacing the kitchen, based on the lowest quote supplied by Mr H in 
2018, plus a 10% uplift.
Pay Mr H 50% of the invoice provided for the temporary roof repairs.
Pay Mr H 50% of the quote provided for replacement of the garden gate system.
Settle the remaining items (lawn, carpet, electrical invoice and log invoices) in line 
with the offer it has already made.
Settle the remainder of the claim in line with the agreed scope of works and the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman