DRN-4321643
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS) was mis-sold to him.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS.
In December 2022 Mr T had the car serviced. At the service it was discovered that the front 
drive shafts had been removed. This meant that the vehicle didnt have the four wheel drive 
capability that Mr T required and thought he had purchased.
Mr T complained to BMWFS. In its final response, BMWFS said it wasnt upholding the 
complaint because Mr T hadnt provided evidence to support his claim.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the evidence showed that the vehicle had 
been modified so that it was no longer a four wheel drive and that these modifications had 
taken place before the point of supply. The investigator said that the modifications meant 
that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality because it didnt conform to its description 
under the agreement. The investigator said that Mr T should be allowed to reject the car. He 
also said that BMWFS should refund three monthly hire payments to reflect the time that Mr 
T didnt drive the car following discovery of the modification in December 2022.
BMWFS said that it agreed that the car should be rejected but it didnt agree to refund three 
monthly hire payments. It said that Mr T had covered more than average mileage since 
December 2022. It offered a refund of 1  months hire payments.
Mr T didnt accept the counter offer and Ive been asked to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS has accepted a rejection of the car so I wont be commenting on the modifications 
or the quality of the car. For the avoidance of doubt, I agree with the investigator that the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality because it didnt conform to the description under the 
agreement.
Ill focus on whats a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
Mr T has explained that he specifically wanted a vehicle with four-wheel drive because he 
was previously involved in a bad accident in wintertime and he wanted the extra safety of a 
four wheel drive. Hes told this service that following the discovery of the modifications to the 
front drive shafts in December 2022, he didnt use the car for three months because he 
didnt feel safe driving the car in the winter months due to the modification.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Mr T to stop driving the car during this 
period. The evidence provided I support of Mr Ts complaint doesnt address any safety 
implications of the modifications. However, its accepted that a four wheel drive vehicle has 
better traction than a front wheel drive vehicle in bad weather conditions like rain and snow. 
Its more likely that these weather conditions will occur in the winter months  the same 
months Mr T didnt drive the car. Taking into consideration the fact that Mr T had previously 
been involved in a bad accident in a front wheel drive vehicle, I think it was reasonable for 
him not to drive the car during the winter months. 
Ive considered the points raised by BMWFS. It says that Mr T has covered over 5000 miles 
since December 2022 and that because the UK average mileage is 7400 miles per year, Mr 
Ts use of the car should be taken into consideration when deciding what refund of payments 
to make.
Theres no definitive figure for UK average mileage. Ive seen reference to figures of 
between 7,400 and 13,000. The average mileage figure varies according to several factors 
including urban/rural driving, age group, lifestyle and occupation. So Im not persuaded that 
7,400 is a definitive figure which I should apply here. But even if it is, this doesnt change my 
view that it was reasonable for Mr T to stop using the car during the winter months because 
of his safety concerns. Its on this basis that I think its fair to ask BMWFS to refund three 
monthly payments.
Putting things right
To put things right, BMWFS should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr T
Refund the advance payment of £3500
Refund three monthly payments
Refund the cost of the inspection report of £72
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading 
as Alphera Financial Services must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman