DRN-2435470
The complaint
Mr H says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as www.moneyboat.co.uk 
(Moneyboat), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr H says Moneyboat didnt carry out sufficient 
checks to make sure the lending was affordable for him. Mr H says he was already repaying 
other loans he had. 
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans Moneyboat provided to Mr H in June and July 
2019. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 06/06/2019 12/06/2019 3    £350.00 £161.06
2 12/06/2019 05/07/2019 4    £400.00 £144.57
3 08/07/2019 08/11/2019 6 £1,000.00 £291.30
In our most recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint about loan three 
and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. They thought the way in which Mr H was 
borrowing, along with Moneyboats own credit checks, showed that Mr H was having 
problems managing his money. So Moneyboat should have increased its checks on Mr Hs 
financial circumstances. They didnt think Mr H would be able to sustainably repay loan 
three. 
Moneyboat disagreed. It said the checks it carried out were proportionate. It wouldnt review 
every line of a credit file given the early stage of the relationship.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr H didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr H had with Moneyboat. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loan he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Moneyboat has said that before it agreed to lend to Mr H it carried out an income and 
expenditure check, an affordability check as well as a credit reference check. For Mr Hs 
third loan its recorded that he was employed and earning a monthly income of £3,000. His 
monthly expenses left Mr H with a monthly disposable income of £1,400 and the monthly 
repayment for the loan was £291.30. So, on the face of it the borrowing would seem 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
However, I note that Mr H had repaid loans one and two early  before the term agreed at 
the outset  but would then return shortly afterwards for further borrowing. Loan two was 
taken out the same day loan one was repaid, for a marginally higher amount and slightly 
longer repayment term. Loan three was taken out three days after loan two was repaid and 
for more than double the amount and a six-month term  a longer term than at loan one and 
two. This rapid re-borrowing behaviour may be an indication that someone is struggling with 
their finances and juggling their money to make ends meet.Moneyboat has also provided us with a copy of a credit report it obtained at the point of      
Mr Hs application for loan three. And I think the information contained in that report would 
suggest Mr H was having problems managing his money. The report showed that Mr H 
already had 14 active accounts and five of those had been opened in the six months prior to 
the application for loan three. There was also evidence of borrowing from three other short-
term lenders. 
Moneyboat has told us it would be unrealistic to review every line of a credit file prior to 
lending. And particularly at the early stages of a borrowing relationship. But I disagree. 
Moneyboat was already in receipt of that information about Mr Hs financial circumstances. 
And I think it should have used that information it was already in receipt of when considering 
whether it should lend to Mr H. The evidence given in that credit report and Mr Hs borrowing 
behaviour of repaying a loan early and returning immediately for further lending, suggested 
that Mr H was having problems managing his money and the lending looked unsustainable. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan three and Moneyboat should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H at loan three, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan three from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Moneyboat Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman