DRN-3904993
The complaint
Mr R complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined his income 
protection claim. 
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint Ill only describe what 
happened in brief.
Mr R held an annually renewable short-term income protection policy with Fairmead. When 
Fairmead made the commercial decision to no longer offer the policy going forwards, it gave 
Mr R details of the insurer that would be offering it should he wish to have cover with them. 
Mr R chose not to continue with that new insurer and his policy with Fairmead came to an 
end on 16 April 2022. 
Mr R submitted an unemployment claim on 8 April 2022 after being made redundant. 
Fairmead explained the payment in lieu of notice Mr R received as part of his redundancy 
expired on 21 April 2022 and in line with the policy terms the claim would need to commence 
on 21 April 2022 too. So, given Mr Rs policy was coming to an end six days prior to that it 
said there was no policy in place for Mr R to claim against.
Fairmead maintained its position following a complaint. It acknowledged it could have 
communicated the decline to Mr R sooner however and paid £100 in compensation to reflect 
that. 
Mr R approached this service and said his policy was still live when he claimed on it because 
hed still paid a premium. He said hed been messed around by Fairmead before being told 
the claim was declined too and was disgusted at the way his house and overall wellbeing 
were being put at risk.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. They were satisfied that Fairmead had acted 
reasonably so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R remained of the opinion that his policy was 
still live when he claimed on it and asked that the matter be decided by an ombudsman. So 
its now for me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ill only address those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. I do acknowledge Mr Rs strength of feeling however and thank him for taking the 
time to set out his position. 
Fairmead had a responsibility to handle Mr Rs claim both promptly and fairly and to not 
reject it unreasonably. The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy detailed the basis on which 
his income protection policy was provided. They had explained:
When does your claim begin?
We treat the first date of your unemployment as the later of:
the date any payment in lieu of notice expires;
the date you registered as unemployed with a Jobcentre;

The terms and conditions had also said:
When wont we pay unemployment benefit?
We wont pay benefit if:
you knew of impending unemployment before the start date;

you receive payment in lieu of notice. We wont consider you unemployed for the 
days you are paid;

Mr Rs payment in lieu of notice expired on 21 April 2022. So although I agree that his claim 
was submitted when his policy was still in place, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Fairmead to conclude there would be no policy in place for him to actually claim against.
In line with the terms of the policy Mr R would have only been considered unemployed from 
21 April 2022 onwards  that being the date his pay in lieu of notice expired, and his policy 
would have ended six days prior to that. 
I appreciate Mr R has argued that hed paid a policy premium around the time of his claim, 
but Im not persuaded this means his claim should have been paid. Mr Rs premiums were 
taken to cover him up until the end of his policy year. He had chosen not to go ahead with 
the new proposed insurer and so, after 16 April 2022, Mr R did not have a policy in place 
with Fairmead for claims to be made on or assessed against. 
In all the circumstances I dont think Fairmead declined this clam unfairly or unreasonably 
despite the timing of the claim and the premiums paid towards the policy. Mr R may still 
disagree with this and I am sorry to further disappoint.
I am pleased that Fairmead has already recognised its delays had an impact on Mr R. It has 
already paid £100 which I think represents a fair and proportionate reflection of that impact 
so Ill not be recommending a higher amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman