DRN-4135681
The complaint
Mr S complains One Insurance Limited failed to provide a courtesy car for the duration of a 
motor insurance repair. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr S made a claim against his One Insurance motor policy. A few weeks later 
the insurers approved repairer took possession of his damaged car. Mr S was told he would 
be provided with a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs. However, following One 
Insurances instruction the hire company retrieved his courtesy car in late September 2022 - 
despite his own car not being repaired until January 2023. 
Before his own car was returned to him Mr S complained to One Insurance about being left 
without a courtesy car. In November 2022 One Insurance issued a final response. It 
explained a delay in repairing his car was due to a shortage of parts. It apologised for 
instructing the courtesy car be taken back in September 2022. To recognise the impact of its 
mistakes it paid him £250.
Our investigator assessed the complaint. He felt the policy terms meant Mr S should have 
been provided with a courtesy vehicle for the duration of repairs. He was persuaded the 
courtesy car had been recalled from Mr S by the hire company about four months before 
repairs were complete. He recommended One Insurance pay him £10 per day for loss of use 
of the courtesy car.
The investigator felt the £250 compensation paid was enough to recognise the 
inconvenience caused to Mr S by it taking too long to collect his car and arrange a courtesy 
car at the start of the claim. But he felt it should pay him a further £250 compensation. This 
was to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by it not responding effectively to 
his attempts to explain the car had been taken from him. 
One Insurance didnt respond to the investigators recommendations, so the complaint was 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S policy summary says he will be provided with a courtesy car if his own car is being 
repaired by one of One Insurances approved repairers. A claim letter sent to him in 
May 2022 explains he will be provided with one for the duration of the repairs. 
One Insurance seems to accept he was entitled to one whilst repairs were ongoing  it 
accepts it cancelled this by mistake. 
One Insurance apologised for the courtesy car being taken back in September 2022. Its 
since said Mr S was provided with one after this date. Mr S denies this. Hes shown an 
invoice from the hire company showing the car was returned in September 2022. And 
One Insurance hasnt provided anything to support what it says. So Im persuaded Mr S was 
entitled to a courtesy car from early May 2022 until late January 2023  but was only 
provided with one from mid-June 2022 until late September 2022.
Ive considered the impact of this on Mr S. He says he required a car for his job, to enable 
him to visit clients. Being without one left him reliant on public transport and taxis. Im 
satisfied Mr S incurred additional transport costs because of One Insurances failure. To 
make up for this the fair and simple resolution will be for it to pay him £10 per day  from 
28 September 2022 until 23 January 2023  so a total of £1,180.
I havent included £10 per day for the weeks in May and June 2022 when Mr S was without 
a courtesy car. In my opinion that period is covered by the £250 One Insurance awarded in 
its November 2022 final response. It works out at a bit less than £10 per day, but Ill accept 
that as a fair amount to cover additional transport costs for that time. 
Our investigator recommended One Insurance pay a further £250 compensation. I think 
thats a fair amount to compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience (separate to the 
additional costs) experienced across many months because of its poor service. I wont list 
every factor, just a few to illustrate. The lack of courtesy car and public transport meant on 
occasions he had to walk up to seven miles to work appointments  in the winter weather. 
He says he made numerous attempts to get One Insurance to reissue a car, but on each 
occasion was unsuccessful. This doesnt surprise me. Even after it accepted its mistake, in 
the final response letter, it failed to arrange a car for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £1,180 for loss of 
use and £250 compensation (making £500 paid in total). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman