DRN-3355303
The complaint
Miss M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused damage to her 
property while carrying out a repair under her home emergency insurance. 
What happened
Miss M says an engineer from British Gas attended her property in 2020 to carry out repairs 
to the taps in her bathroom. She says after the work was completed she noticed a leak 
coming through her kitchen ceiling  which is directly below her bathroom. Miss M reported 
this to British Gas who arranged for another engineer to attend and she says this engineer 
told her the leak was down to the previous repair not being done properly. So, she 
complained to British Gas.  
British Gas responded and explained their records show one of their engineers attended 
Miss Ms property in June 2019. They said this booking was for the bathroom taps to be 
replaced but only the hot water tap was replaced. They said there were no other visits until 
they were called out in April 2021 due to a leak which was causing damage to Miss Ms 
property. They said the engineer, during this visit, found the leak was coming from a loose 
hot water tap which he tightened and resealed. British Gas said theyve reviewed the matter 
but couldnt find any evidence their engineer was negligent when he installed the hot water 
tap in 2019. British Gas said, if they had fitted the tap within the 12 months before it started 
leaking then they mightve accepted fault, but it was installed 22 months prior to this. British 
Gas said with the time that had passed it is not uncommon for taps or pipes to loosen 
through usage or even with the vibration of the water going through the tap or pipe.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss M. He thought British Gas hadnt made any 
errors during their visit in 2019 but felt they didnt fully resolve the issue for Miss M during 
their first visit in 2021. So, he recommended they pay compensation of £75. British Gas 
agreed but Miss M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Miss M will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
System notes provided by British Gas show an engineer attended Miss Ms property in June 
2019. Their notes say the engineer replaced the hot water tap but the cold-water tap had 
seized and couldnt be replaced without cracking the bath which Miss M didnt want. The 
notes say the only way to replace the cold-water tap was to replace the bath. The notes 
show the next visit was in April 2021 when Miss M reported stains on her kitchen ceiling. The 
notes say the engineer investigated the leak by removing a bath panel and noticed a leak 
coming from the loose hot water tap. The engineer tightened and resealed this. The notes 
show there was a further visit about two weeks later as there was still an issue. The issue 
was then resolved following this last visit.  
I note Miss M feels the issue with the leak and the resulting damage to her kitchen ceiling is 
down to poor repairs carried out by the engineer in 2019. Given that the first visit in 2021 
identified the hot water tap was loose, I understand why Miss M feels there is a link between 
the repair to the hot water tap in 2019 and the leak she noticed in 2021. But, Im not 
persuaded this suggests the work carried out in 2019 wasnt done properly. I say this for two 
reasons. Firstly, the engineer who visited in 2021 doesnt comment on there being any issue 
or problem with the quality of work carried out in 2019. And, Ive seen no independent 
evidence that the cause of the leak was down to the work in 2019 not being carried out 
properly. 
Secondly, theres a period of 22 months between the repairs being carried out in 2019 and 
Miss M noticing the leak. I believe its more likely than not, had there been any issues with 
the quality of the work carried out in 2019  and which would lead to a leak  then the leak 
wouldve appeared shortly after the work was carried out in 2019. I cant speculate and say 
when precisely the issue wouldve become apparent, but I can say I dont believe the issue 
would only have become apparent after 22 months. I note Miss M believes the first engineer 
visit was in 2020 during lockdown. But, Ive seen no evidence of there being any attendance 
by an engineer in 2020. And, given that Miss Ms account of what happened during the visit 
she recalls as being in 2020 is similar to British Gas notes of the first visit, I believe this is 
the visit which occurred in 2019. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
The notes show that, following the first visit in 2021, a further visit was required to resolve 
the issue. I can see British Gas have accepted our investigators view that there has been an 
error in that British Gas didnt resolve the issue during the first visit in 2021. I can see Miss M 
has provided a quote from a builder for repair works to the kitchen ceiling. I cant hold British 
Gas responsible for this as its clear the damage was first noticed, and occurred, prior to the 
first visit in 2021. I cant say how much, if any, damage was caused by leaking following the 
first visit in 2021. But, given that the issue was first noticed by Miss M prior to this first visit, I 
cant say this caused the leak as this was already present and responsible for the damage 
Miss M noticed. 
So, I think British Gas should compensate Miss M for the upset and inconvenience caused 
when she noticed the issue still hadnt been fully resolved and having to call British Gas for 
another engineer to attend. This further visit did resolve the issue. Given the period of time 
over which the issue continued after the first visit in 2021 and the second visit resolving the 
issue, I think compensation of £75 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that British Gas made an error by not resolving the issue for Miss M 
during their first visit in 2021. So, they should pay Miss M compensation of £75 for the upset 
and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must pay   
Miss M compensation of £75.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman