The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with each consumer complaint against one 
insurance company or other regulated financial firm at a time.
Where the complaint is about a claim under an insurance policy we treat it as a complaint 
against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with the claim. In our final 
decision we name that insurance company but we dont name any other party.
Miss B had a policy in the name of a home assistance company. Aviva was the insurance 
company responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Aviva I include the home 
assistance company and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their actions.
The policy entitled Miss B in certain circumstances to a new boiler free of charge - except 
that she had to pay for its installation. In April 2019 Aviva accepted Miss Bs claim for a new 
boiler. 
The quote for installation was as follows:
Fitting of boiler      £1,297.95 
Pipe run    £217.61
Filter         £159.43
Total      £1,674.99
The company installed the boiler but not the pipe run. Miss B complained that she should get 
a reduction.
A final response letter dated 21 June 2019 said that £217.61 had been removed for 
materials but nothing for labour.
On 3 July 2019 Miss B called for help with a water leak in the area of the boiler.
Miss B brought her complaint to us later in 2019.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He 
thought that the leak was put right, so he said he hadnt looked further into that. He thought 
DRN-1597576that Miss B was quoted for a day and a half which would be approximately twelve hours but 
the engineer worked for five hours.
The investigator recommended that Aviva should:
1. use the total labour cost to calculate the hourly cost for five hours of labour; and
2. refund back to Miss B the remaining seven hours of labour costs; and
3. add 8% simple interest.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that £1,297.95 is the standard price for the installation of a 
new boiler, regardless of how long it takes to install.
The investigator changed his view. He didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that the installation cost was correct. He said the company had 
shown him a list of completed work to other consumers and the charges involved. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She called to query the quote. The salesman said that the price wouldve been
cheaper without the gas pipe run.
The installation engineer said he couldnt understand why the salesman had said a
pipe run was necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt th at Miss B queried the quote of £1,674.9 9. I find it likel y that the 
representative said that the quote included £217.61 fo r the pipe re-run. 
But Im satisfied that the price of about £1,298.00 fo r installation was a standard price quoted 
to other consumers. I dont find that it likely that the representative said it wouldve been 
lower without the pipe re-run.
Therefore I find it fair that  afte r the installation without a pipe re-run - the company rebated 
the £217.61 but none of the £1,298.00.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphol d this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman