DRN-1672424
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Trading as Barclaycard) are holding him liable 
for transactions that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
Mr G has been helped with his complaint by a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill 
mostly only refer to Mr G himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. Mr G had a current account with a debit card and also a credit card, 
both provided by Barclays. 
On 13 August 2018 Mr G reported that hed lost his credit card. Barclays cancelled the card 
and issued a replacement. It isnt in dispute that Mr G received the replacement card. 
Barclays say that the PIN on the new card remained the same as the PIN on the card that 
had been lost. 
On 26 August 2018 Mr Gs two purchases were made on Mr Gs credit card. One was 
shortly before 11.00am and was for £1,752.23 and one shortly after 11.00am for £2,552.77. 
Both purchases were authenticated by chip and PIN and took place outside the UK. 
Barclays systems sent Mr G a text message asking him to confirm the transactions were 
genuine. Mr G says he didnt recognise them, so he called Barclays. He said he didnt 
realise his card was missing until Barclays contacted him. His card was blocked and 
Barclays investigated. Ultimately they didnt think that Mr G had been the victim of fraud and 
so they held him liable for the transactions. Amongst other reasons, they pointed out that:
Mr G had genuine use that he didnt dispute on his debit card close to the locations of 
the disputed transactions;
The genuine chip was read and the PIN was correctly entered with no wrong 
attempts. Mr G said he hadnt written down or shared his PIN with anyone, and the 
number was different to the PIN on his debit card. So they couldnt identify how a 
third party could have known the PIN number;
There was no further attempted use of the card after it was blocked;
 
Mr G says he left his wallet in a car and was fishing at the time of the transactions. He 
doesnt know how anyone could have known his PIN number, but he maintains he didnt 
make the transactions. 
Barclays say after they held Mr G liable for the transactions, he didnt make the monthly 
payments towards his account. As a result of this they closed and applied a default to his 
credit card account. Being unhappy with this Mr G complained. 
Barclays considered the complaint, but didnt change their position. So, Mr G brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to conclude it was more likely than not that Mr G 
authorised the transactions in question. He also thought the default had been fairly applied. 
As he still disagrees, Mr G has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
Generally, Barclays can only hold Mr G liable for the transactions he disputes if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them himself. Im 
satisfied by the technical evidence provided by Barclays that Mr Gs genuine card was used 
to make the transactions. The chip was read and the PIN number was correctly entered. But 
the regulations relevant to these types of transactions say that isnt enough, on its own, to 
conclude that Mr G authorised them. So Ive gone on to think about whether or not Mr G 
consented to the transactions being made.
It isnt in dispute that Mr G had his credit card with him when visiting family outside the UK. It 
also isnt in dispute that he was in the vicinity of where the disputed transactions took place. 
This is supported by the genuine use of Mr Gs debit card.
Mr G also says that he never wrote down the PIN to his credit card and didnt share this 
information with anyone else. He also says that the PIN for his debit card was different to the 
PIN for his credit card. Barclays have evidenced that the last time Mr Gs credit card was 
used prior to the disputed transactions was several months earlier. So it doesnt seem likely 
that there was any opportunity for someone to have observed Mr G enter his PIN, before 
being able to steal or find his card and use it without his authority. 
Barclays have evidenced that there were no failed transactions due to incorrect PIN 
attempts, and again it seems implausible that someone could correctly guess the PIN 
number  particularly on the first attempt. Barclays also say that there were no further 
attempted transactions after the card had been blocked. Its typical that when a card is 
stolen, that the thief will try to obtain the maximum benefit by using the card repeatedly until 
the credit limit is reached or the card is blocked. So its unusual that if a third party had been 
able to make two large transactions on Mr Gs card, that they didnt go on to try to make 
further transactions. 
Ive also considered whether or not someone known to Mr G could have made the 
transactions without his consent. But I dont think this is likely as the only person who might 
have had an opportunity to do so would be Mr Gs wife. She was present with him on the trip 
and potentially could have known the PIN from previous use (albeit it months earlier). But 
she is Mr Gs representative on this complaint and also states she has no knowledge of the 
transactions. And Mr Gs testimony is that his wife wouldnt have had access to his card at 
the time in question. So overall, Im not persuaded this is whats happened here.
So taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Mr G consented 
to the transactions and either made or authorised another to make them. And in either case, 
it follows that I think it is fair for Barclays to hold him liable for them. 
Barclays gave Mr G their decision in relation to his disputed transactions in October 2018. 
The decision Barclays later took to close Mr Gs account and to register a default is in line 
with both the terms and conditions of the account and their obligations to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. Even though Mr G denies responsibility for the 
disputed transactions, he was still obliged to keep to the terms and conditions of his account 
with Barclays and to maintain the minimum payments. He would have had the option to bring 
the complaint to us, and if upheld, we would have directed Barclays to amend the account. 
But given Mr G doesnt dispute that he failed to make the payments required of him, I dont 
think the decisions Barclays took to close the account and to apply a default were 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman