DRN-3131962
The complaint
Mr T complains about the cashback offer and account terms provided by Capital One 
(Europe) plc.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T is autistic  hes explained that means he gets particularly excited by things and 
needs time to think and process matters. 
I dont think this meant Capital One shouldve assumed he wouldnt want to know 
about its promotional offers. If it did, I think it might be accused of putting him at a 
disadvantage. Going forward, if Mr T wants to opt out of future promotions, thats 
something he can speak to Capital One about. 
The promotional email set out clearly that the cashback offer was for three months. 
Mr T thinks it was a ploy to get him to spend more, conveniently at a time when hed 
a lower balance. I understand the point hes making, but the decision lies with Capital 
One as to when and how long it will offer its promotions for  thats not something I 
can interfere with. And ultimately, the offer was just that  he didnt need to do 
anything straightaway and he could have turned it down if he didnt think it was a 
good deal. 
I realise that in one conversation Mr T had with Capital One, a staff member 
suggested the cashback offer wasnt temporary, before they correctly explained the 
position. Mr T said that from the excitement this caused, he didnt take in the rest of 
what was said or realise it had been corrected. But in the call, Mr T asked why it 
couldnt be extended  so Im satisfied the understanding was there.  
Mr T is also unhappy that hes charged for international payments. But theyre part of 
the agreement for the account he applied for. So I think Capital One applied these 
fairly.
I know Mr T will be disappointed by my decision. It seems to me that his concerns 
are rooted in how Capital One dont have a better deal for him. But that doesnt mean 
theyve got anything wrong  so its not something I can put right. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman