DRN-4250411
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) dealt 
with a claim on her after the event insurance policy following a non-fault accident in her car. 
What happened
Mrs B was involved in an accident in her car. Instead of claiming on her car insurance policy 
she was referred to a non-fault accident management company (AMC). At the same time 
she was provided with an After the Event (ATE) insurance policy with AAUICL. The ATE 
policy covered Mrs B for the recovery of her car, repairs to her car, storage for her car and 
the cost to hire a replacement car while hers is repaired.
AAUICL tried to arrange a hire car for Mrs B to use while hers was repaired. Unfortunately, 
there were difficulties in sourcing a suitable hire car and so it took a few weeks for one to be 
provided. When one was provided Mrs B said the car wasnt clean, was damaged and there 
were stains on the seats. She therefore let AAUICL know the car wasnt in an acceptable 
condition. Mrs B also asked for a car with a larger boot as she said the car provided wasnt 
big enough. 
The issues with sorting a suitable hire replacement hire car went on for several weeks and 
meant Mrs Bs car wasnt booked in for repair. Mrs B then made two complaints as she was 
unhappy with how long AAUICL was taking to sort the repairs to her car and with the issues 
with the hire car.
AAUICL reviewed the complaints and issued two final responses. It agreed there had been 
delays in providing the hire car and acknowledged there was pre-existing damage to it. It 
said all cars were cleaned but not all strains could be removed. AAUICL also said due to the 
high demand it hadnt been able to repair the damage to the hire car before it was provided 
but said it had provided a similar car to Mrs Bs, as required under the policy. However, 
AAUICL did apologise for the handling of the claim and for the calls Mrs B had. Unhappy 
with the response, Mrs B referred her complaint here. She said AAUICL had been rude and 
hung up the phone on her. She also said the hire car hadnt been clean and didnt think 
AAUICL had handled her claim well enough. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. He found that AAUICL couldnt 
provide a copy of the call where Mrs B said AAUILC had hung up on her. However, he 
agreed other calls with AAUICL had become unproductive and that they hadnt been 
handled as well as they could have. Our investigator acknowledged Mrs Bs concerns with 
the condition of the hire car shed been provided, and the delays in getting her car repaired. 
He recommended AAUICL pay Mrs B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
poor claim handling. 
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator and so the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy say AAUICL will repair Mrs Bs car and provide her 
with a like for like hire car while its repaired. Ive therefore looked to see if AAUICL has done 
so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Its not in dispute there were delays in providing the hire car, and therefore delays in getting 
Mrs Bs car in for repair. AAUICL has also acknowledged there were issues in the calls it had 
with Mrs B and the condition of the car and has apologised. However, Im not satisfied this 
goes far enough. 
Mrs B has raised concerns about the condition of the hire car provided. I can see AAUICL 
has tried to source a replacement car but has had difficulties in doing so. This has also 
caused delays of around two months in getting Mrs Bs car repaired. Its also disappointing 
that AAUICL hasnt been able to provide the call Mrs B has specifically referred to. It said 
this is down to an IT issue. From the calls AAUICL has provided its clear AAUICL was trying 
to help Mrs B, however, understandably Mrs B wasnt satisfied with how long things were 
taking. 
Ive therefore looked at how best to put things right. AAUICL didnt handle this claim 
promptly and the service provided wasnt good enough, particularly around the calls and the 
delays. Im therefore persuaded the AAUICL should pay Mrs B £200 for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor claim handling. 
This is because Mrs B wasnt provided with a satisfactory like for like replacement, shes had 
to make numerous calls to AAUICL and the calls became unproductive and were not 
handled as well as they could have. This has resulted in around a two month delay for Mrs B 
in getting her car repaired and, when taking everything into account, Im satisfied £200 is fair 
reasonable compensation for this. AAUICL needs to pay this to Mrs B if not already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs B £200 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman