DRN-4308085
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable given his circumstances at the time and 
so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £4,000.00 in October 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £186.87. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C 
and Likely Loans had told us. And he didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.   
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr C could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Mr Cs unsecured credit commitments werent excessive in comparison 
to his income and what he did have was relatively well maintained. For example, there were 
no defaulted accounts or other significant adverse credit information.
I accept that Mr C appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And what Mr C now says simply wasnt reflected in the 
information Likely Loans obtained. 
Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of difficulty in 
the information Likely Loans did obtain, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended into requesting copies of Mr Cs bank statements. 
At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im not 
necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as 
finding out more about Mr Cs regular living costs. And I dont think that obtaining bank 
statements was the only way that Likely Loans could have done this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman