DRN-3810635
The complaint
Mr E complains Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a buildings insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that Ageas has 
acted fairly. I do so for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute there were storm conditions present at the time the damage 
occurred to Mr Es property. However, simply because storm is an insured peril it 
doesnt automatically mean any claim for damage that occurred during a storm will 
be accepted under an insurance policy.
In this case, Aviva arranged for an inspection of the roof and damage caused. That 
report concluded the damage likely happened as a result of a gradual process of 
mortar breakdown and missing mortar between the ridge tiles on the roof. The report 
included pictures of the roof and I can see from those pictures the remaining ridge 
tiles do show areas where mortar is missing and a build-up of moss. So, I dont think 
it is unreasonable to assume the ridge tile that came loose was in the same general 
condition.
Ive noted that the mortar connected to the next tile appears to have remained on the 
roof, however I dont think this is enough to say that Ageas decision is incorrect nor 
unfair. The bond between the joints could have deteriorated at that point. 
I havent seen any evidence this report is biased in its findings, it simply reports on, 
and provides evidence of the roof in question. As such I dont think it is something 
that I should ignore, or do I think it was unreasonable for Ageas to rely on it when 
reaching its decision on the claim. 
The roofer that Mr E employed to undertake repairs reports the damage is storm 
damage which itself isnt an unreasonable description as the damage happened 
during a storm. However again, as Ive explained above that doesnt automatically 
mean the insurance policy will provide cover. 
The policy excludes damage that is caused by wear and tear. I dont think this is an 
unusual term as it is designed to exclude cover for matters that could generally be 
considered as general maintenance issues. 
At this service were interested in the underlying cause of the damage. And for the 
reasons given above, Im more persuaded the damage has occurred in the way 
Ageas has said. And the storm just highlighted it. If the deterioration and wear and 
tear of the mortar wasnt present, Im not persuaded the weather conditions recorded 
wouldve caused the type of damage. So, overall, I think Ageas have acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy in declining Mr Es claim.
Ageas has said Mr E was made aware the claim would not be met when its agent 
visited his property, Mr E has said he wasnt. Ideally, I would have liked to have seen 
this decision confirmed in writing, however I dont think this would have changed the 
position here. Mr E would still have needed to arrange the repairs to his property. 
Although I do appreciate it would have come as a shock to realise the cost of repairs 
would not be covered.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman