DRN-4331605
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with AXA Insurance Plcs handling of a subsidence claim made under her
building insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to AXA, this also includes any actions and communications from agents
appointed by AXA to handle the claim on their behalf.
What happened
In September 2021 Miss A reported movement to her home to AXA, her building insurance
provider.
Ultimately it was concluded that a damaged drain was causing subsidence. Drain repairs
were completed along with monitoring to check the property had stabilised. However,
Miss As property still hasnt been repaired.
Miss A has raised several complaints with AXA. This included complaints about delays in the
claim, a lack of progress and updates, delays in receiving payments for alternative
accommodation, and about the repairs.
AXA issued several final responses across the claim. Miss A was unhappy with how the
claim was progressing, and the ongoing service she was receiving, so she approached this
service.
Our investigator outlined the period they were considering in this complaint. And for that
period, she didnt think the £475 compensation offered by AXA was enough. So, she
recommended this be increased to £750.
The investigator also said given what had happened, and the delays, AXA should provide a
clear timeline of when repair works would start and finish. And she noted that there had been
delays in alternative accommodation payments being made, so she said a set date for
payment should be agreed, rather than on a 28-day rolling basis.
AXA agreed with the investigators recommendations. Miss A also broadly agreed and the
complaint was closed. However, Miss A later said shed like a final decision from an
ombudsman. She also let our service know about ongoing issues she was having.
The case was passed to me for a final decision.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. I broadly agree with what the investigator 
recommended for the period they were considering as part of this complaint  when 
they recommended it in March 2023.
However, things have moved along in the claim since that point and each party is at 
a different position to then. Whilst I agree the suggested resolutions were reasonable 
when the investigator suggested it, I cant direct AXA to carry out all the 
recommendations in a final decision, as AXA wouldnt be able to comply with this 
now. Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision to explain why this is, and what I 
think AXA needs to do for the period Im considering, taking into account things have 
moved on and how/if AXA would be able to comply with any directions I make.
I dont intend on commenting on everything that happened during the claim (for the 
period Im considering), as both parties are already aware, and this isnt disputed. I 
dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the informal nature 
of this service and my role within it. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive 
considered all the information provided when reaching my provisional decision.
Ill also explain the period Im considering. The claim was made in September 2021, 
AXA issued several final responses to the various complaints raised by Miss A. The 
first final response was issued by AXA on 30 November 2021. In this, AXA paid £75 
compensation for the delays and lack of updates. However, this complaint doesnt 
form part of my consideration of matters here as it isnt in my jurisdiction to do so. Ive 
written separately to both parties to explain why this is.
After 30 November 2021, AXA issued final responses on 4 July 2022, 31 December 
2022 and 24 February 2023. Im considering events post 30 November 2021 to 
24 February 2023.
Compensation for service issues
In AXAs final responses for the period Im considering, in summary, they said:
4 July 2022 - £175 compensation for telling Miss A she needed to arrange 
drain clearance herself, along with a delay in responding to the complaint
31 December 2022 - £200 compensation for delays and lack of progress, 
along with delays in alternative accommodation payments
24 February 2023 - £100 compensation for ongoing delays in the claim and 
alternative accommodation paymentsTherefore, it isnt in dispute that the service Miss A received from AXA fell short. This
includes, delays, multiple surveys being required, Miss A being incorrectly told shed 
need to unblock the drains, no updates, not addressing concerns with boiler safety 
and delays in alternative accommodation and associated payments. Our investigator 
didnt think the £475 compensation offered by AXA overall was sufficient for this 
period and what happened. Instead, she recommended this be increased to £750.
I agree with the increase suggested by our investigator. Having taken everything into
account (for the period Im considering), I think £750 is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, thats what Ill be directing AXA to pay Miss A.
Delays in alternative accommodation payments
During the claim, alternative accommodation was agreed as Miss As property 
became uninhabitable. Miss A provided suggestions of suitable accommodation, and 
AXA agreed to pay £80 per night. This was paid in blocks of 28 days.
However, there were delays in this being paid at some points during the period Im
considering. This meant Miss A had to chase payments and recalculate the 28-day 
periods to ensure there were no gaps.
Due to the inconvenience this was causing to Miss A, as part of the investigators
recommendations, she suggested AXA should (and they agreed to):
Provide you (Miss A) with a set date for when payment for alternative
accommodation will be made by. At the moment, you said its paid every 28 
days but, this is causing problems as you always have to chase them for 
payment. Having a set date every month will hopefully manage this going 
forward.
AXA agreed to this, and this was also relayed to Miss A. At the point which the 
investigator was considering (up to the last final response dated 24 February 2023) 
and when they proposed this, I think that was fair. And if the position on the claim 
was still the same now, its likely I would have directed AXA to do this too.
However, since that time, AXA has ceased paying for alternative accommodation. 
This has happened after the period Im considering. So, the reasons for this dont 
form part of this complaint consideration, and I cant decide here whether AXAs 
reasons are fair.
Instead, that would be a new separate complaint. And AXA has recently issued a 
final response in relation to that point. So, a separate complaint has been set up with 
this service to consider the reason this stopped and whether thats fair.
As AXA is no longer paying alternative accommodation, for the period Im 
considering here, I cant direct AXA to make payments in line with what the 
investigator recommended, as this is historic, so it isnt something AXA would be able 
to comply with if they are no longer making alternative accommodation payments.
So, Im not minded to direct AXA to do anything else in relation to this (for the period 
Im considering). But I have taken into account the impact of the late payments during 
the period Im considering when reaching a provisional decision on the amount of 
compensation Im minded to direct AXA to pay.Repair works
Its clear, as outlined above, the service has fallen short. There has been delays, and 
poor communication, which Ive taken into account when considering appropriate 
compensation for the period Im considering.
When our investigator considered the complaint, based on the position up to that 
time (the final response of 24 February 2023), she also said AXA should (which they 
agreed with):
Provide you (Miss A) with a clear plan on the date the repair works will start 
and finish. Ive explained to them (AXA) that youre keen to return back to 
your home and as communication between you and them has been very 
poor, I think its important for you to have a clear schedule of when the repairs 
will be completed by.
If things were in the same position as they were when this was recommended, Id 
likely have said this was reasonable and directed AXA to do this. However, again, 
things have moved on, and if I was to direct AXA to do this now, it wouldnt be able to 
comply, so I cant reasonably direct them to do this.
I say this because currently there is a dispute around the extent of the repairs 
required, which includes whether to replace the foundations at the property. Miss A 
has obtained her own survey which has differing views to that of AXA.
But this dispute and position reached has happened after the period Im considering, 
so not something Im able to decide as part of this decision. This means I cant direct 
AXA to provide a clear plan or timeline on when the works will start and finish 
because both parties are in a dispute over the repairs required. AXA wouldnt 
reasonably be able to comply with this, so I cant direct them to do this.
AXA has recently issued a final response in relation to the repairs and their current 
position  and in the same final response as the alternative accommodation ending. 
So, whether AXAs position on the repairs required is fair and reasonable would also 
form part of that separate complaint being considered by this service. So, I cant 
reasonably require AXA to provide a timeline or plan at this stage.
Therefore, in summary, for the reasons outlined, unless anything changes as a result 
of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill only be directing AXA to increase the 
compensation to £750 at this stage.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct AXA to increase the 
compensation for the period Im considering from £475 to a total of £750.
The responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded and agreed with the provisional decision, and said they had nothing further 
to add.
Miss A also responded, but she didnt agree. She said that AXA has continued to provide 
poor service, and she is no further along in her claim.Miss A says that the dispute over the extent of the repairs is not a reason to not ask AXA for 
a timescale for the repairs to be completed, as she said it should be based on the original 
survey, as thats what the investigator recommended. And whilst disputes will alter that 
timescale, this would be a starting point. So, Miss A says AXA should be directed to provide 
a timeline for repairs being completed.
In addition, Miss A also provided details about the latest final response from AXA and what 
has been happening, and she said she is unsure what the compensation for previous 
complaints is supposed to do when she wants her house repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate Miss A will be disappointed, my final decision 
remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
I acknowledge what Miss A has said about the ongoing issues shes been having with AXA 
and her claim. However, this doesnt form part of my consideration here. As outlined in my 
provisional decision, my consideration is from 30 November 2021 to 24 February 2023. As 
Miss A is aware, one of our investigators has arranged for a new separate complaint to be 
set up for events after this period to consider that separately.
I also recognise that Miss A wants AXA to fix her house, and she said shes not sure how the 
compensation for previous issues is supposed to help with that. However, the role of this 
service isnt as a claim handler to manage the claim on behalf of AXA. That is their role as 
Miss As insurer. Instead, our role is to consider complaints about what has already 
happened previously, rather than to handle the claim or manage what happens in the future.
So, here Ive considered the claim and complaints between 30 November 2021 and 
24 February 2023. Ive taken into account what went wrong, and what AXA has done to try 
to put things right for what happened previously, between these periods. As I dont think AXA 
did enough, thats why Im directing them to pay additional compensation (increasing the 
total to £750) for what happened between those points, which is the period Im considering 
here.
Miss A also says that a timeline for starting and completing repairs should be provided by 
AXA - as recommended by our investigator previously. However, I outlined why I wouldnt be 
directing AXA to do this in my provisional decision.
I wont repeat that in full here, but in summary, this is because when our investigator 
recommended it, things were progressing. But since that point (and after the period Im 
considering here), a dispute has arisen over the extent of the repairs, and that dispute 
remains unresolved. So, I cant direct AXA to provide a timeline for when it starts and 
completes works whilst a dispute over the extent of repairs is ongoing, as this will clearly 
impact things. But, as Miss A is aware, a separate complaint has been set up with this 
service to consider that repairs dispute. The same applies, as outlined in my provisional decision, to the investigators 
recommendation surrounding alternative accommodation payments being paid on a set day. 
Since that point, AXA has ceased paying for alternative accommodation, and the reasons for 
this dont form part of this complaint or the period Im considering. So, I cant direct AXA to 
make payments on a set day as they are no longer making payments. But as Miss A is 
aware, the separate complaint set up with this service will also be considering the reasons 
for AXA no longer making payments.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct AXA Insurance Plc to:
Increase the compensation for the period Im considering, which is set out above, 
from £475 to a total of £750
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman