DRN-3065236
The complaint
Mr L complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged him 
for damage to a car he returned at the end of the finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Mr L entered into an agreement under which he agreed to cover the costs of any damage 
which went beyond those specified in its Vehicle Return Standards. This sets out in some 
detail what is considered to be wear and tear and what goes beyond that.
The car was collected by an agent on behalf of MBFS and was subjected to an inspection at 
the storage facility. Several areas of damage were identified and MBFS sent Mr L an invoice 
for £756.
The report from the collection agent records the areas of damage and is supported by 
photographs. The costs relate to a damaged windscreen, alloys, and a bumper. As our 
investigator has set out each of these falls outside the level of damage considered to be fair 
wear and tear.
I appreciate Mr L says such marks are to be expected in the routine driving one would 
experience on UK roads. However, I cannot say that is the basis on which I can reach a 
decision. I have to decide if the damage contravenes the standards to which Mr L signed up 
for when he entered into the agreement.
Our investigator has reviewed each of the damaged areas identified in the inspection report 
and concluded that the charges are correct. I have also reviewed the report and I am 
satisfied that the damage for charges have been levied are not fair wear and tear as defined 
in the agreement.  
I have noted Mr Ls comments regarding the alloy wheels, but that does not mean that 
MBFS is not entitled to make a charge for the damage. They may or may not have an issue 
which makes them prone to rusting, but the damage goes beyond fair wear and tear.
I can appreciate Mr Ls frustration at the charges and he has my sympathy, but I cannot say 
that the charges are outside the agreement he signed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman