DRN-2581509
The complaint
Ms M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) rejected her claim on her 
motor insurance policy after she reported the theft of her car.
What happened
Ms M told RSA that he car had been stolen and then crashed by an unknown person. But 
RSA said police reports showed that Ms Ms partner, a named driver on her policy, had 
driven the car whilst over the legal alcohol limit and crashed the car. RSA said theft hadnt 
been proven. Ms M said the police investigation was flawed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ms M 
hadnt proved that her car had been stolen. She thought the police report showed that her 
partner had taken and crashed the car. She also thought RSA was entitled to rely on the 
policy exclusion for drink driving to reject the claim. And she thought delays in the claim were 
outside RSAs control as it had to wait for the police investigation to be concluded.
Ms M replied that it shouldnt be for her to prove that her car had been stolen. She said shed 
reported the theft to the police. Ms M asked for an ombudsmans review, so her complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA said it had rejected Ms Ms claim because it was unable to validate that her car had 
been stolen. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
RSA said another driver had contacted it to report that Ms Ms partner had collided with their 
car. Two days later, Ms M told RSA that her handbag, containing her cars keys, had been 
stolen and then her car was taken, and her partner kidnapped. The police then said that the 
car had been involved in a collision. As the circumstances were unclear, RSA decided to 
wait for the police to conclude their investigations. This took some time, but I cant 
reasonably hold RSA responsible for this delay.
The police report said that Ms Ms partner drove the car and crashed it whilst he was over 
the drink driving limit. The police didnt consider the matter as theft. But Ms M said she didnt 
know who was driving her car at the time. 
Ms M said the police had dropped the drink driving charges and her partner was badly hurt 
in the kidnapping. But I think the police have confirmed that they dropped the drink driving 
charges as the court ran out of time due to the pandemic. I think Ms Ms partner was hurt, 
but I can see that he was taken to hospital after the collision reported to RSA by the other 
driver. And the police confirmed that Ms M reported at the time that he had taken the car. 
There was no report by Ms M of her partner being kidnapped and assaulted until some 
months later. I think the account that Ms M gave at the time is more persuasive as it was 
made closer to the event than her later very detailed statement. 
Ms M said the police reports were fabricated and she was complaining about their actions. 
But I think the police report is consistent with the other evidence provided in RSAs file. So I 
think its reasonable for RSA to rely on the police reports. 
So I think RSA reasonably concluded that there wasnt evidence that the car had been 
stolen. Rather, Ms Ms partner, a named driver on the policy, had taken the car and crashed 
into another car whilst over the drink driving limit. I can see from the policy terms and 
conditions that this is excluded from cover. 
And so I think RSA acted fairly and in keeping with the policys term and conditions in 
rejecting Ms Ms claim. So I cant say that RSA needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman