DRN-1791616
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Aviva Insurance Services UK Limited handled his claim.
What happened
Mr M has a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. In May 2019, Mr M made a claim 
on his policy. Hed had a leak in his kitchen which had damaged part of his kitchen and the 
flooring.
Mr M had to continually chase Aviva for an update to his claim and hadnt received any 
contact for a few months. In September 2019, Avivas surveyor attended Mr Ms house to 
assess the situation. The surveyor reported that there was damage to the floor and some of 
the cupboards. He produced a quote to repair the damage. Mr M was unhappy as this quote 
was far less than what hed been quoted independently to put his home right again.
There were two main issues with the quote. Firstly, Mr M has said he had laminate flooring 
fitted throughout the lounge, dining room and kitchen. And had a quote to have this replaced. 
Avivas surveyor explained it hadnt seen evidence of any laminate being laid in the kitchen. 
But provided a quote to have the kitchen and dining room laminate replaced using its own 
flooring retailer as it was able to get a discounted service. Mr M was unhappy with the 
difference in cost and felt he was left out of pocket.
The second issue is with the kitchen. Mr M had a quote to replace the whole kitchen. Hes 
explained that the damage to the units meant that other units would have to be taken out to 
repair the damaged ones. But Avivas surveyor explained that the damage was only to the 
carcass of the units  parts that wouldnt be seen. And was able to provide a quote to 
replace these without replacing the whole kitchen. 
Aviva did acknowledge the poor service it had provided with the delays and standard of 
customer service Mr M received. It paid Mr M £400 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that there was no evidence to 
suggest Avivas quotes were incorrect. Or that Mr M had to spend more to have his kitchen 
repaired. She explained that Mr M didnt approach the flooring retailer but instead chose to 
have the floor replaced by a third party. And Aviva shouldnt be held liable for this. The 
investigator also felt there was no evidence to suggest the full kitchen had to be replaced. 
So, she didnt feel Aviva should pay more than what it had already paid to cover the repair of 
the damage  in line with the policy terms. The investigator felt the compensation for the 
service was fair and reasonable.
Mr M disagreed. He said it wasnt fair that hes been left out of pocket. And he feels if Aviva 
had provided a better service at the outset he wouldnt have been left in this situation. So, 
hes asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Flooring
Mr M has shown us that it would cost around £2,000 for the floor to be replaced using the 
company hed chosen to fit a new kitchen. But Aviva has only offered around £433 which is 
far less. Ive considered what Aviva has offered and why. The surveyors report shows that 
there was damage to the kitchen flooring. But theres no evidence that the floor had the 
same laminate flooring as the dining room and lounge as Mr M has said. Mr Ms insurance 
policy says that he must be able to prove any losses that hes claiming for. But he hasnt 
done so here. However, I can see that Aviva calculated the cost of replacing the floor with 
laminate from a specific flooring retailer.
Aviva has an agreement with the retailer to provide 20% off its flooring  this means the 
amount Aviva has given would then be inflated. The cost took account of the dimensions of 
Mr Ms kitchen, dining area and lounge and provided a quote based on having laminate fitted 
by this retailer. Mr M has said he didnt visit or obtain a quote from this retailer as hed 
obtained a quote from elsewhere and felt the amount Aviva had provided him was too low. I 
dont think that Aviva should have to pay more here. I can see it obtained a quote, paid Mr M 
this amount and agreed that it would review this if the specific retailer charged more for the 
flooring. But Mr M didnt look to see if he could have this floor replaced for this amount. 
Instead he chose to instruct his own contractors for the job. This was a choice Mr M made 
having been made aware of what Aviva would pay when the surveyor visited. And Ive not 
seen any evidence that Mr M couldnt get his floor replaced with the amount Aviva paid him. 
So, I wont be asking Aviva to pay anything more for the floor.
Kitchen
When Avivas surveyor visited Mr Ms home, it was recorded that there was damage to some 
kitchen units. But the surveyor explained that the damage was limited to some end panels 
and the carcass of some units. It obtained a quote for these to be replaced which included all 
works to remove some units and put them back again after the damaged parts were 
replaced. Mr Ms policy says:
We can choose to settle Your claim by replacing, reinstating, repairing or by payment. If We 
are able to replace property, payment will be limited to the cost of replacement by Our 
preferred supplier.
Ive seen the quote and it details the work that needed to be carried out. However, Mr M 
wants Aviva to cover his losses for an entire kitchen. Theres no evidence to show that the 
whole kitchen needed to be replaced and theres nothing to suggest that the work to repair 
the damage couldnt be completed at the amount that Aviva paid Mr M using its preferred 
supplier. Mr M chose not to accept Avivas quote as he wanted the entire kitchen replaced. I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Aviva to cover anything more than the cost of 
repairing the damage the leak caused  as this is what is covered under Mr Ms policy.
Customer serviceIts clear that Mr M didnt receive the service he should have from Aviva. There was a delay 
of over three months from Mr M making a claim to a surveyor inspecting the damage. Aviva 
has also acknowledged that the service from its representative wasnt at the standard it 
expected. It paid Mr M £400 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. I agree 
with our investigator that this amount is fair and reasonable.
I understand that it must have been extremely frustrating for Mr M to have to chase Aviva for 
so long, particularly as he had a damaged floor and kitchen at the time. However, Ive also 
noted that the kitchen was functional. So, he was able to continue living in the house and 
was able to carry out his normal functions in the kitchen. Mr M has said that he didnt have 
proper flooring during this time and the dust caused inconvenience. This must have been 
unpleasant, but I also note Mr M was having an extension built at the same time. So, I dont 
think the added inconvenience of the floor not being replaced for the duration of the delay 
warrants any additional compensation than Aviva has already paid. I think £400 is fair and 
reasonable in light of the inconvenience caused in this specific complaint.
To summarise, Ive not seen any evidence to show that Aviva should pay more in this claim. 
It has offered Mr M an amount which it would be able to repair and replace the floor and 
damaged part of the kitchen for. And I cant see that the leak caused any additional damage 
that would mean Mr M had to replace his whole kitchen. I also think the £400 Aviva has paid 
for the customer service and delays is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman