DRN-3752992
The complaint
Mrs O feels that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated her unfairly about a transaction on her credit 
card to purchase tickets for an event.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs O bought tickets for an event using her Lloyds credit card to pay for 
them. The event was due to happen in March 2020 but was cancelled by the event 
organisers due to the pandemic. Mrs O had sporadic contact with the organiser about when 
the event would be rescheduled into 2021. Later she discovered the organiser was dissolved 
in January 2021. She first complained to Lloyds in November 2020.
Lloyds said it considered the dispute felt the single items purchased were less than £100 
each and accordingly didnt meet the criteria for a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It also considered chargeback and noted that Mrs O brought the dispute to 
it outside of the time limits in the chargeback process. So it didnt think it could do anything 
more for Mrs O. Unhappy with this Mrs O brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator issued an assessment on the matter which found that Lloyds didnt have to 
do any more. But Mrs O doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should also add that this decision is solely about Lloyds and how it considered Mrs Os 
dispute with the organiser. The organiser is not within my remit and I cannot decide on its 
behaviour. The test is here whether Lloyds treated Mrs O fairly in its consideration of her 
dispute with the organiser. I would like to make this crucial distinction clear.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out the requirements for a successful 
Section 75 claim to a creditor such as Lloyds here. This includes conditions regarding 
financial limits of the claim and that the required Debtor Creditor Supplier (DCS for short) 
relationship is in place. When considering a section 75 claim Lloyds has to satisfy itself that 
the financial limits and DCS conditions are met and then it needs to consider whether the 
organiser has breached the contract or misrepresented the contract. Here Lloyds has argued 
that the financial limits requirements are not in place due items purchased being less than 
£100. And thus it hasnt considered whether there is breach or misrepresentation of contract 
here.
Ive considered Lloydss financial limits argument. I should note the legislation specifically 
says:
S 75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, she shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
(2) (not key here-its about the Supplier indemnifying the creditor)
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a) (not key here),
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
In short to make a valid claim the single item purchased must be more than £100 and less 
than £30,000 in cash price. Ive considered what Mrs O has told us. Shes described buying 
30 tickets for an event as a celebration. These tickets were for 30 people to attend the event. 
Mrs O hasnt provided any contract from the purchase, but we do know the total cost and 
know the tickets were the same. So we can see the cash price of each ticket was 
significantly below £100 each. So I dont think Lloyds has treated her unfairly by relying on 
this to say she hasnt got a valid claim under section 75.
Ive also considered chargeback which is a process that banks can use to when there is a 
dispute between a card holder and a merchant such as the event organiser here. 
Chargebacks are done by the relevant card network and have specific rules including time 
limits for such chargebacks to be raised. Ive considered when Mrs O bought the tickets, 
when the original event was scheduled and when she took her dispute to Lloyds. And I can 
see shes significantly outside of those time limits. So I dont think Lloyds has treated Mrs O 
unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback.
For completeness Ill address Mrs Os main argument here. She says its unfair shes lost all 
her money here, over £600. I agree and Im very sorry to hear this. But this isnt Lloyds fault. 
And it hasnt done anything wrong in how it dealt with the dispute Mrs O raised with it about 
the event organiser. So I dont think it has to do anything more.
Mrs O says she should be entitled to a refund because of the organiser being dissolved. As 
the organiser owed her money she would have been able to claim when it was in 
administration. But now the company has dissolved it would appear shes missed that 
opportunity to get her money back direct from the organiser. It would appear that was Mrs 
Os only chance to recoup this money from the organiser.
In short Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong here. Accordingly this complaint is 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do on this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman