DRN-1194959
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs B were sold a MPPI policy in 2008. Although the mortgage was in joint names, 
the MPPI only covered Mr B. The policy would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 720 
days if Mr B was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr B was eligible under the policy. Given Mr B age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible for the policy.
Barclays  had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale, so Ive thought about what the parties 
have told us and looked at the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what 
is more likely to have happened during the sale. In particular, Ive seen a copy of the 
statement of demands and needs and the application form. These show  that MPPI was 
discussed with Mr and Mrs B and that while Mrs B chose not to take PPI, Mr B appears to 
have chosen to take it out. I havent seen anything in these documents which would suggest 
that MPPI was presented as being compulsory.
So all in all, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B were aware that PPI was optional and it 
was only applied to the account because Mr B chose to take it out.
Barclays accept they advised Mr B to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for him. I dont know if Barclays  took all the steps they should have to check if the 
MPPI was suitable but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr B. I say this because:
 Although Mr B has told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer,  the MPPI 
would have paid out in addition to this and for a much  longer period of time. It would 
also have paid out if Mr B lost his job, in addition to any redundancy pay he may 
have been entitled to. 
 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B had some savings. However, savings arent 
guaranteed. In any event, if Mr and Mrs B still had savings when Mr B was unable to 
work, these could have been used for essential living expenses while the MPPI took 
care of the mortgage repayments.
 
Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford the PPI.
 
Mr and Mrs B could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr B, Barclays also had to give Mr and 
Mrs B clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave Mr and Mrs B wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclays mis-sold Mr and Mrs B 
this MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman