DRN-1488597
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has reduced the limit on her credit card account 
and wont increase it.
What happened
Ms G explains she has had a credit card account with HSBC for a number of years. And she 
has an excellent credit record. HSBC wrote to her and said that the credit limit was going to 
be reduced from £2,500 to £1,250. And when she applied for it to be increased back it 
wouldnt agree. She says she needs that limit for emergencies as she might need to buy an 
air ticket at short notice to visit a relative.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. HSBC had acted within 
the terms and conditions of the account. The decision about the limit was a commercial one 
and fairly down to HSBC. It had paid her £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms G did not agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that wed missed the 
point. Her only income is now from benefits as health issues prevent her working. The 
reason her limit was cut was deliberate discrimination. She needed the limit and didnt want 
the compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's not the role of this service to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter 
of law - only the courts have the power to decide this. I have considered the relevant law in 
relation to what Ms G has said when deciding what is fair and reasonable. Part of this has 
meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010.  
I understand why Ms G feels that her personal circumstances - her health condition and so 
her income - are unfairly being held against her here. But I'm afraid I dont have sufficient 
evidence to make such a finding. I can see that the change in the limit came from a regular 
review of the account. And that HSBC has applied its lending criteria to decide what limit its 
prepared to continue to offer Ms G. I wouldnt expect it to disclose those criteria as they are 
commercially sensitive. But it considered her request for an increase in the limit in line with 
its normal process and unfortunately wouldnt agree to this.
I know that Ms G wanted to have this higher limit as a back up for emergencies. And I dont 
have reason to doubt what she says about her credit history and payment record. But I also 
dont have a basis to find HSBC has made a mistake. It can fairly decide on the limit on the 
account and so Im afraid I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman