DRN-3358324
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved an overdraft 
facility for him that he considers unaffordable. He is also unhappy that correspondence for 
him went to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr M successfully applied for a £4,500 overdraft facility in March 2020. During the following 
6 months Mr M used his overdraft for gambling and when he hit the top of his limit he used 
loans to pay it back and then again spent to the top of his limit. In October 2020 a default 
notice was issued and then default applied to his credit file in February 2021.
Mr M complained to NatWest that it didnt carry out proper affordability checks when he 
applied for his overdraft and that correspondence was sent to the wrong address. NatWest 
said his application was fully credit scored and assessed against its lending criteria in force 
at the time. It says all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. 
NatWest said it held Mr Ms correct address and that all correspondence was sent to this 
address. But as a gesture of goodwill it credited his account £150 for the stress caused by 
not receiving his correspondence. Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint 
to this service. 
Following this NatWest made the following offer:
NatWest would refund the interest and charges since the overdraft was approved in 
April 2020 (totalling £291.76 after accounting for interest refunds already made).
As Mr M is no longer in debt NatWest have confirmed it will add 8% simple interest to 
the refund.
Mr M didnt want to accept this offer, he would like negative information recorded on his 
credit report to be removed and wants to be compensated more for the upset caused by his 
neighbour receiving his mail. He has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ms overdraft. Mr M was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Mr M would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
NatWest says Mr M applied for his overdraft online in March 2020. The application was fully 
credit scored taking into account information Mr M provided about his income and outgoings 
as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And 
based on this information NatWest was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him 
with the overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ms financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there is no evidence of any adverse 
information shown on the credit check and there wasnt any evidence of significant gambling 
on his account prior to the overdraft being approved I think NatWests checks went far 
enough. 
But in any case I dont think this matters because NatWest has already agreed to do what Id 
recommend if Id found it had done something wrong.
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they shouldnt have and we may award 
modest compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it should have realised 
was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable  in this case from April 2020. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. 
NatWest has already agreed to do this as well as awarding Mr M £150 compensation for the 
distress caused by not receiving letters and statements from it which I think is fair and 
reasonable.
I understand Mr M is unhappy about negative information being reported on his credit file 
and would like this information removed. But NatWest does have a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate. And as Mr M defaulted on his overdraft NatWest it is entitled to report 
this information.Mr M might be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit 
records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that he would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
So, bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do for Mr 
M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr M to decide whether he wishes to accept 
NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im not 
requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman