DRN-3071392
The complaint
The complaint is brought on behalf of a group of leaseholders within a residential block of 
flats. Ill refer to the group as C for the purposes of this decision.
C are unhappy about the commercial insurance policy premium being charged by Allianz 
Insurance Plc due to an outstanding claim remaining open.
What happened
This service can look at pricing complaints where the premiums have been rising on a policy 
over a number of years. But in this case the issue is slightly different in that Allianz declined 
a claim under the policy. But the leaseholder involved complained and the claim was 
reopened.
Due to the claim being reopened at the leaseholders request Allianz is entitled to reconsider 
how it rates the risk and applies the premium. In this case due to the size of the potential 
claim it set a reserve amount at around £17,000. It said due to this a loading needed to be 
placed on the premium in view of the extra risk. C now says it wants to move the policy to 
another insurer due to the cost but cant due to the outstanding claim. It said it wants the 
claim closed down so it can do this.
Allianz wasnt willing to change its position and said the claim would remain open until the 
dispute had been resolved and this would impact on the premium. Unhappy with this C 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that as the leaseholder had asked for 
the claim to be reopened and this had a knock on effect on the premiums. Our investigator 
said Allianz had referred the premium matter to a senior underwriter to check and so she 
didnt think it had acted unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating the increased premiums are for the leaseholders. But with 
such a high reserve amount set on the reopened claim I can also understand why a loading 
has been applied by Allianz.
C has said premiums for other similar properties in the area are much lower. I cant compare 
what C is paying with other local blocks of flats. Allianz said it is basing the premiums on the 
claims history and the existing reopened claim specifically in relation to this block. And I 
dont think it can just close down a potential claim until the details have all been reviewed 
and the matter resolved with the leaseholder.
C said the policy cant be moved due to the open claim. But I think that is a matter of choice 
for the leaseholders to decide on. I accept it can be difficult with an existing claim and the 
need to provide all details to any future insurer.
Allianz has provided information as to why it has taken the action it has, and I dont think 
thats unreasonable. I think it is generally entitled to rate the premium in line with the 
property risk as it sees it. Allianz has been involved in discussions with the broker about the 
premiums at the past couple of renewals and there doesnt appear to be any mistakes made 
in how the premium has been set.
I understand that C would like the matter closed regarding the previous claim in the hope 
that the premium issues can be resolved. Once the claim has been concluded C can 
reconsider taking the policy elsewhere. Allianz should make sure the outstanding claim 
issues are dealt with as quickly as possible so the premium can be reviewed and if required 
readjusted.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman