DRN-3214904
The complaint
Mr L complains about how The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) dealt with his account 
withdrawal request.
What happened
Mr L says he attended a Co-op branch on 15 July 2021 to withdraw about £2,000 but Co-op 
staff wouldnt allow him to withdraw the money despite him completing security. He says he 
waited for about 40 minutes to be able to withdraw his money and would like Co-ops 
process about these matters reviewed. Mr L also complains about how long he waited on the 
telephone to register a complaint and says he was told the complaint had been resolved 
when it hadnt Mr L would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience, he was 
caused.
Co-op says it will not apologise for making sure its customers money was save. It says it 
wrote to Mr L and told him his complaint was resolved.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Co-op issue Mr L an apology. The investigator accepted Co-op must protect 
its customers money but didnt think the complaint was resolved as it said. The investigator 
didnt think it our role to comment on a businesss process and didnt think Mr L had suffered 
a financial loss. But did think Mr L had been in branch for some time trying to resolve this 
issue.
Co-op has agreed to issue an apology, but Mr L says it should pay compensation. He 
questions if other customers were singled out for similar questions.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said I uphold this complaint and 
provisionally thought Co-op should pay Mr L £50 compensation.
I appreciated that this was Mr Ls money and that it up to him to decide how he used it. I also 
appreciated that Co-op has a duty to make sure its customers money is safe. I accepted in 
those circumstances that there is often a difficult balance to be had and that on occasions 
legitimate transactions and customers are subject to extra checks and inconvenience. I said 
that didnt mean it always follows that business is at fault for that inconvenience.
I said there was no real dispute here that Mr L passed Co-ops authentication checks at 
about 10.11 AM on 15 July 2021. And I looked carefully at Co-ops records which I didnt 
think made clear what its concerns were about Mr L withdrawing his money. I said that as 
Co-op says Mr L gave it conflicting information having told it the money was for personal 
expenses before later saying it was to buy things. I didnt think the information Mr L gave 
Co-op was on the face of it conflicting and was satisfied he had to wait for about 30 minutes 
to withdraw his own money.
I didnt think Mr L suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place, but I accepted he 
was caused some inconvenience and distress. I also accepted that the complaint wasnt 
resolved as Co-op said in its final response letter and I didnt think that letter provided Mr L 
with any real explanation of what took place or why. So, I thought that Co-op should pay Mr 
L £50 compensation which I thought is fair and reasonable and reflects what took place in 
the branch. I explained that we generally cant consider complaints about complaint 
handling, so I said I didnt intend to comment on the time Mr L spent on the telephone to the 
Co-op.
I also explained that I cant fairly comment on Co-ops process for dealing with this type of 
issue as we are not its regulator. For the same reasons I couldnt comment on what Mr L 
said about other customers. 
Overall, I didnt think Co-op dealt with Mr Ls request to withdraw his own money as it ought 
to have and on the face of it couldnt see that Mr L provided conflicting information or why a 
relatively straightforward withdrawal should have taken so long to sort out.
Co-op has accepted my view, but Mr L doesnt. He says the compensation doesnt go far 
enough and is concerned about future withdrawals.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Im satisfied this was a short incident in a branch that was sorted out, which didnt result in 
any financial loss. I dont think the impact was significant and think the compensation 
amount is appropriate in the circumstances. I cant fairly comment in this decision on any 
future issues.
Putting things right
Co-op should pay Mr L £50. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay 
Mr L £50 compensation. Mr Ls acceptance of this decision would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman