DRN-3941711
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) didnt deal with a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M found that the drains at his home were blocked. So, he contacted his home emergency 
provider to deal with it. The engineer was able to clear some of the blockage. It said Mr M 
needed trace and access to fully clear the blockage.
Covea, who was the buildings and contents insurer, was made aware of the claim by Mr Ms 
insurance broker. Covea obtained a copy of the report from the home emergency provider. 
Covea then told Mr M it couldnt carry out trace and access work unless there was damage 
caused by an escape of water. Mr M continued to have problems with his drains. He told 
Covea that he would carry out a repair and send the costs to Covea. Covea confirmed it 
couldnt provide cover, as there wasnt any damage to the property.
When Mr M complained, Covea maintained its position that there wasnt cover under the 
policy. It said a blocked drain wasnt an insured peril and there was also no evidence of 
damage. It also said it wouldnt send a surveyor where there was no evidence of an insured 
peril
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Covea had acted fairly as there wasnt evidence of damage to the property and the policy 
also excluded damage caused by blocked drains.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im aware Mr M had a number of concerns about what happened around dealing with his 
blocked drains. From what I can see, most of the issues relate to the home emergency 
response. Covea wasnt the home emergency provider. It was the insurer for the buildings 
and contents part of the policy. My decision will only look at the actions of Covea and how it 
dealt with the claim under the part of the policy for which it was the insurer.
Insurance policies provide cover for insured perils. These are normally listed in the policy. 
When Covea became aware there was an issue with Mr Ms drains, it phoned Mr M to find 
out details of the blockage. During that call, it said it would get a copy of the home 
emergency report to understand what had happened at Mr Ms property. Covea later 
contacted Mr M to ask if there was any damage to his home, such as from sewage or as the 
result of an escape of water. I havent seen evidence that Mr M provided details of any 
damage.
Mr M wanted Covea to provide trace and access, which the policy included. The policy said 
this covered reasonable costs involved in tracing the source of an escape of water. 
However, as there wasnt evidence of an escape of water, I think it was reasonable that 
Covea didnt provide trace and access. 
Ive also looked at the policy to see if there was any other relevant cover. The only other 
possible cover appears to be under accidental damage to underground pipes. However, as 
there wasnt evidence of any damage and there was also an exclusion for damage caused 
by blocked pipes, Im not persuaded Covea needed to cover it under this part of the policy.
Mr M has also complained that Covea didnt send a surveyor. Its for a policyholder to show 
a claim has been caused by an insured peril. An insurer will sometimes send a surveyor to 
investigate this. However, in this instance, Mr M hadnt provided evidence of any damage or 
of an insured peril. So, I think it was reasonable that Covea didnt send a surveyor. Covea 
also explained to Mr M that there were costs involved with a surveyor visiting and that 
sending one could also affect Mr Ms future premiums. 
Im aware that Mr M was also concerned about communication. From what I can see, a 
number of the issues Mr M referred to werent about Covea. They were about the home 
emergency provider and others. Ive listened to a call where Covea contacted Mr M about 
his blocked drains, where the call handler was trying to get details to see if there might be 
cover under the buildings policy. Ive also seen emails to Mr M explaining the position on the 
buildings insurance to him and also expressing sympathy for the difficult position he and his 
family were in. It also took steps to deal with the complaint when it realised it hadnt been 
properly raised. So, I think Covea tried to address Mr Ms issues fairly and reasonably. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Covea to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman