DRN-2164085
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is holding him liable for an 
online banking payment he made. He says he has been the victim of a scam and the bank 
has failed in its duty of care to help and advise him. 
Mr B has also complained about the beneficiary bank. That matter is being considered as 
part of a separate complaint, so in this decision I am only looking at the actions of Halifax. 
What happened
On Saturday 23 November 2019 Mr B saw an opportunity to buy a business advertised 
online. It was a brokerage, selling other businesses that are for sale on behalf of those 
owners and generating a commission.
Around 1pm, Mr B sent the seller an email expressing his interest and to ask some further 
questions. Mr B thought it might be a good opportunity to supplement his pension income. 
The seller replied and provided further information. The seller explained the cost included a 
website with hosting paid for 12 months, documentation to get started and full training. The 
seller said there were other people interested so Mr B should let him know as soon as 
possible if hed like to go ahead. 
There was a further exchange and Mr B decided to go ahead. The seller sent Mr B an email 
with his bank details and his mobile phone number. In that email, the seller said I will get 
things written up to start Training [sic] on Monday and get you going.
Mr B made an online banking payment of £1,695 to the account details the seller had given 
him at 14:17. He contacted the seller to confirm hed made the payment. He said he was 
looking forward to learning a new trade.  The seller responded to suggest topics they would 
cover on Monday. Mr B then emailed the seller on Sunday evening to ask him what time the 
training would start on Monday morning. The seller did not reply. 
First thing on Monday morning, Mr B telephoned Halifax. He asked the bank to stop the 
payment as he thought he was about to be scammed. He explained he was supposed to 
have been in touch with the seller at 9am that morning but hed not responded. Mr B said 
hed sent the seller an email, a text and left a voicemail. Mr B said he now thought the offer 
seemed too good to be true and that the business was priced below what he thought the 
market value might be.
Halifax promptly contacted the beneficiary bank. It explained Mr B had raised concerns 
about a payment hed made and it was possible hed been the victim of a scam. As almost 
all of the funds remained, the beneficiary bank placed a hold on its customers account whilst 
it investigated the matter.
At around 11.30am, the seller contacted Mr B. He explained that they should have organised 
a definite time to speak and that he was currently with clients. He asked Mr B if he would be 
free that afternoon. Mr B confirmed that he would be. In the interim, the seller sent Mr B 
more details about the brokerage business, including the login details for the website and 
email templates. Mr B explains he didnt feel comfortable opening the documents as his anti-
virus software flagged them. 
Mr B then called Halifax and asked for advice about what to do. The banks notes of the 
conversation suggest it told Mr B not to mention that hed raised a scam claim and 
suggested he could ask the seller to send the money back if he no longer wished to continue 
with the service. 
Mr B spoke with the seller on the phone around 1pm. Following the call, the seller sent Mr B 
an email containing links to his social media account and to a website for another business 
he runs. In the interim, the beneficiary bank contacted the seller to discuss the payment they 
had received. The seller then contacted Mr B and explained his account had been blocked. 
Mr B contacted Halifax just after 2pm as he was concerned that the beneficiary bank had 
made the seller aware of the concerns that had been raised. Shortly after 3pm, Mr B emailed 
the seller and asked him to make a full refund to bring closure to the online business 
opportunity payment. 
Later that afternoon, the seller provided evidence to his bank to show hed provided Mr B 
with the details needed to start to run the business. The beneficiary bank reviewed this 
evidence and felt the situation was a dispute between a buyer and seller and not a scam. It 
released the funds back to its customer. The beneficiary bank contacted Halifax the next 
morning, then Halifax called Mr B to let him know the outcome. 
On 27 November, Mr B emailed the seller and said he had no intention of working with him 
or pursuing the business. He asked the seller to resell the business and then refund him, 
suggesting he could keep £100 from the resale proceeds to cover the cost of re-advertising 
and £95 for the inconvenience. 
Mr B contacted the seller again later that day and asked him to remove his details from the 
website. The seller replied to say the domain was in Mr Bs name and he had the log in 
details to be able to make the changes required.
Mr B then said the sale was not binding because the seller had not provided any contractual 
documentation or evidence to show hed traded and made a profit from the enterprise. 
On 28 November, Mr B contacted Halifax and made a complaint. In summary, he said 
Halifax was responsible for not stopping the money going through when it could have done 
so, and that it came to a decision on his case too quickly. He pointed out he was not given 
the opportunity to provide any facts before the beneficiary bank unblocked the account, and 
that the time frame was insufficient to conduct an in-depth investigation. 
On 13 December Halifax issued its final response. It considered whether it ought to refund 
Mr B for his loss. Halifax is a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM 
or the Code) and so also considered its obligations under it. But it did not think Mr B had 
been the victim of a scam. It said a scam is where a customer meant to transfer money to a 
specific person but was tricked into moving the money to someone else, or where a 
customer had transferred the money for genuine reasons which turned out to be fake. 
It pointed out the beneficiary bank considered Mr B had paid a genuine company. Halifax 
concluded there was nothing further it could do to help as this was a civil matter between 
Mr B and the person hed paid.
As the bank would not change its position, Mr B contacted us. He said banks have a duty to 
apply the law relating to money transactions. He pointed out that consumer protection law 
provides a cooling off period to cancel a contract and that hed flagged up the transfer as a 
scam within 48 hours of the payment being made. Our investigator considered the matter. She concluded Halifax had correctly said this 
situation was outside of the scope of the CRM Code, and agreed this was a dispute between 
Mr B and the seller. She didnt think the evidence suggested the seller had intended to 
deceive Mr B from the start. She noted hed provided Mr B with email templates, the website 
log in details and links to documents to use when running the business. She noted the seller 
had remained in contact with Mr B after receiving the payment which she thought was 
unusual if the intention was to scam him. She didnt think Halifax could have done anything 
else to prevent the payment from being made, and she wasnt persuaded that the payment 
would have looked unusual or suspicious to the bank. 
Mr B disagreed. He suggested the outcome was not fair and reasonable and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter. He said the online business hed paid for 
was meant to receive five to seven contacts a day from the website but not one single 
person had ever contacted him. He said the beneficiary bank would have seen there was no 
income stream from that website, which would have clearly indicated this was a scam. He 
maintained the investigation had been done too quickly because it should have taken 
significantly longer to gather key evidence, such as written statements from both sides. 
Mr B believes the seller conned his bank into believing the transaction was not a scam and 
he has lost out as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I agree with the position our investigator reached. I think Halifax dealt 
with the matter properly and treated Mr B fairly in the steps it took to try and assist him. 
I can appreciate this will be a considerable disappointment to Mr B, but I can see no basis 
on which I can fairly require Halifax to refund the money he sent. I will explain why. 
Could Halifax have prevented the payment from being made? 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Mr B made the payment on a Saturday afternoon. But payments made at the weekend 
normally still leave an account immediately and are typically avaliable in the recipients 
bank account quickly afterwards. This is the case even if the processing on the banks 
systems isnt displayed until the next working day. So when Mr B contacted Halifax first 
thing on Monday morning, it would not have been possible for Halifax to stop the payment 
because the funds had already left his account.Mr Bs account terms and conditions confirm this position. They say:
5.8 Can you cancel or change a payment? 
You cannot change or cancel a payment instruction that you have asked us to make 
immediately.
So I dont consider Halifax make any mistake when it sent the payment. By doing so, it 
was complying with Mr Bs instructions. At the time Mr B intended to pay the seller and 
there was no mistake made as the payment was sent to the correct account details. 
Did Halifax treat Mr B fairly and reasonably when he flagged up a potential issue with the 
payment? 
As I dont think Halifax acted incorrectly by making the payment, Ive gone on to consider 
the steps it took when Mr B raised his concerns. 
When Mr B phoned the bank on the Monday morning, it was clear he considered there to 
be a problem with the transaction hed made. In the call when he reports the situation to 
the bank, Mr B says the seller has stopped responding to him and that the sale was too 
good to be true. 
Whilst the situation was still very much evolving (Im mindful that Mr B thought hed 
arranged to speak to the seller at 9am and that he called the bank just after 9:10am), 
I think Halifax acted appropriately by contacting the beneficiary bank around 50 minutes 
after hed flagged up concerns. I consider it to be good practice for a business to act 
swiftly to try and assist its customer, especially when it is possible that its customer has 
lost out as a result of a scam. 
Halifaxs actions at that time are in line with the Authorised Push Payment Voluntary Best 
Practice Standards issued by UK Finance and Financial Fraud Action UK in April 2018. 
The standards set out the principles and timescales of what should happen when a 
potential APP claim is reported. They say the sending firm is responsible for gathing 
evidence and validating the claim. It should then submit the claim to the beneficiary bank 
without delay. 
From the details Mr B had provided at this point, it was not unreasonable of Halifax to 
think that he may have been the victim of an APP scam. It provided the information it had 
gathered from him to beneficiary bank and it was then for that bank to conduct an 
investigation and recover funds if it could. 
Mr B says that Halifax did not act in his best interests. But I think Halifax did all that it 
reasonably could to help Mr B to try and recover the funds when he raised the potential 
APP scam claim. From what Mr B has said, he was expecting more to be done. Hes 
suggested that the investigtation was executed too quickly and to an insufficent depth. He 
says a thorough, impartial investigation involving both alleged scamster and victim, could 
not have taken place within one working day. 
Mr B wanted a right to reply to what the beneficiary banks customer had said before the 
fate of the funds was determined. But the fate of the funds was outside of Halifaxs 
control. The beneficiary bank contacted Halifax to inform it of the decision it had made. 
Halifax was unable to force the seller or his bank to give the money back. It has no basis 
on which to do so. And neither was Halifax liable to return the money to Mr B in such 
circumstances. Should Halifax have refunded Mr B under the CRM Code? 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Halifax 
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr B made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer 
who is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr B made and, in particular, whether Halifax ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quit explicit that it 
doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some 
way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mr B made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the Code. Mr B strongly disagrees. He feels the 
seller is malicious and the business opportunity he purchased was not legitimate. 
I accept some of Mr Bs concerns could have indicated sharp practice from the seller. 
I dont doubt that was Mr B was ill at ease when he was unable to make contact with the 
seller as hed anticipated. But Im mindful that Mr B did receive what he needed to run the 
business. Hed paid for an online brokerage business and for his money he received the 
core elements of that business, including an established website, templates of emails and 
other correspondence the seller suggested hed been using, along with the offer of 
support whilst Mr B got set up. 
Im also mindful that the dynamic between Mr B and the seller quickly turned sour, making 
it more difficult to establish the sellers true intentions. But the seller kept communicating 
with Mr B after hed sent the money. He provided what Mr B needed to start the business 
and he did offer to support him. He did not ask Mr B for further money, and, for the most 
part, he responded to him fairly quickly - both across the weekend and on that Monday 
morning. 
On balance, taking into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant be as 
sure as I would need to be that Mr B has been a victim of scam. I think Mr B made the 
decision to proceed with the business and then, upon reflection, changed his mind. Its 
unfortunate the seller was not amenable to Mr Bs proposals to agree between 
themselves to set the deal aside. But I agree this is civil matter that he will need to take 
up with the seller directly. As such, I dont think Halifax treated Mr B unfairly when it said 
the payment he made was not covered by the CRM Code. 
Other points 
Mr B has pointed out the bank has a duty to apply the law relating to money transactions. 
Hes highlighted the arrangement had a cooling off period and that the contract of sale 
was conditional on due diligence being made before the matter was finalised. Its possible 
Mr B can invoke the consumer protection legislation hes cited if he takes the seller to 
court. But I dont agree that the bank had a duty to apply this law to the transaction that 
he made. There are some types of payment that can result in finance providers having responsibilities due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. But Mr B did not use finance to fund this purchase. He made a bank transfer 
directy from a credit balance in his current account to pay the seller. Unfortunately the 
bank transfer Mr B made is not afforded these protections. 
Mr B has suggested that this type of bank transfer payment was out of character for him. 
But having looked at the way Mr Bs account typically ran, Ive been unable to identify 
anything about the payment that would have appeared concerning to Halifax at the time it 
was made. The transfer wasnt for a particularly large amount and Mr Bs account 
statements show a number of payments of similar and larger amounts both into and out of 
the account in the months before. So I dont think there were any indications that Mr B 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud as a result of this payment.  
Overall
I can see why Mr B will think the situation he finds himself isnt very fair. Hes paid for 
something he considers to have no worth. But theres not enough evidence to show the 
seller deceived him for financial gain. I appreciate Mr B feels the bank has failed him and 
he should receive redress. But for the reasons I have explained, I disagree. It follows that 
I cannot fairly direct Halifax to bear his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman