DRN-1764675
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.   
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs C took out in March 
2001. It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed
saying, in summary, that she didn't know she had PPI. If she'd have known she had it, she 
would have made a claim when she was unable to work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs C's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs C's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I can't be 
sure what was discussed when the PPI sold, so I've relied more on what the paperwork from 
the time shows.
I've seen a copy of the application form Mrs C signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section headed "Protecting your account". Mrs C signed, separately from the main card 
application, to show that she wanted to take out PPI. I can see that the member of staff has 
indicated, by means of a cross, that Mrs C needed to sign here. But Ive not seen anything 
that makes me think Mrs C wouldn't have been able to check through what she was signing 
before she signed it. The section about PPI was quite brief, so I think she would have had 
time to read this, even though she was in a store.
So, overall and on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mrs C at the time that she had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that she chose to take it. I can understand why she may have 
forgotten this.
I've taken into account that Mrs C didn't make a claim under the terms of the policy when 
she was unable to work towards the end of 2001 onwards. But she didn't make any claims for this event until 2008 - for reasons she's explained to us. So I think it's quite possible that, 
seven years after the sale, she'd forgotten she had PPI. But this doesn't mean she wasn't 
aware of it at the time it was sold.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her.
But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was right  
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time it doesn't look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was  
affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time.
Overall, I dont think Mrs C has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman