DRN-3583025
The complaint
Mr G complains that he purchased a structural warranty insurance for a new property 
through Brents of Brentwood Ltd but hasnt received the certificate or a refund of payment.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In 2015, Mr G purchased a residential new build latent defects insurance policy at a 
cost of £3,508.34. He is unhappy that he has never received the policy certificate or 
received a refund.
The underwriter of the policy (Ill refer to as E) unfortunately went into 
administration. So, the certificate couldnt be issued.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G didnt agree so the complaint has 
been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen Brents of Brentwood Ltd have acted as a broker and set up a policy 
with an insurer (Ill refer to it as A). As policy was underwritten and accepted by E, but this 
was based on the developer/contractor Mr G had appointed within the application. Albeit Mr 
G was listed as an alternative contact on the application it was setup that the developer was 
the original policyholder. Unfortunately, it appears that the developer was dissolved in 
September 2018. Which would mean it could not complete the build and fulfil their 
obligations as the developer under the terms of the policy. 
I understand Mr G appointed alternative sub-contractors to complete the works, but it doesnt 
appear that he informed the parties of this change. When the final build control was issued in 
June 2019 Mr G contacted A to get the certificate. There seems to have been a lot of back 
and forth between Mr G and A and unfortunately E also entered administration and a 
certificate wasnt issued. 
I can appreciate Mr G just wants the certificate or a refund but neither of these things would 
be the responsibility of Brents of Brentwood Ltd as they are not responsible for issuing the 
certificate in the first place or be the company that would issue a refund for the premium that 
Mr G paid to A. 
I understand the payment made by Mr A was split into two elements:
1. The Insurance premium element, including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) and an 
administration fee. This is the money paid to the Insurers to underwrite the policy.
2. Other Fees, including costs for inspections, Technical underwriting, and policy
administration/scheme membership etc.
From what Ive seen, all inspections were completed ahead of technical sign-off so the other 
fees would be non-refundable. But Mr G can attempt to claim the insurance premium 
element.
Our investigator has passed onto Mr G the details for the administrators of E who may be 
able to take forward a claim for a refund of the premium paid. However, it doesnt appear 
that a retrospective certificate can be issued now that E has entered administration.
Its also not Brents of Brentwood Ltd responsibility to sort out another insurer because E has 
gone out of business. I can see Brents of Brentwood Ltd has provided Mr G with the 
following options:
Mr G can initiate a claim for a refund of the original Insurance premium directly from 
the administrator.
It could look to place cover with an alternative insurer if required as a retrospective 
policy in Mr Gs name at a cost of Insurers premium only.
Alternatively, Mr G could choose to initiate a refund via the administrator and look to 
take out a policy (if required) with an alternative broker?
Im satisfied that these options are fair and reasonable, and I wont be asking Brents of 
Brentwood Ltd to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman