DRN-3442058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them personal 
loan payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1999.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the policy at the same time as applying for the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know they had been sold PPI  meaning that it was added 
without their knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the loan application form. There is a separate section for PPI entitled: 
Protecting Your Repayments. This section contains yes and no boxes to either request or 
decline the PPI. The yes box has been ticked and Mr M has signed next to it to confirm that 
decision. Mr and Mrs M have both then signed the application form at the bottom.
Mr and Mrs M were then sent the loan agreement. This describes the PPI as Optional Credit 
Insurance and gives the monthly cost. Mr and Mrs M had to sign and return this form to 
confirm that they wished to proceed with the loan. If Mr and Mrs M had wished to change 
their minds about buying PPI, they could have done so at this point and requested a new 
loan agreement without PPI. This is what Nationwide has tried to explain in its final response 
letter.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI would have been 
presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time agon and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. 
Based on the available evidence, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs M decided to buy the PPI, 
knowing they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Nationwide needed to provide Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information for them to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether or not it was right for them.
Typically it was only the first named person on a joint loan that could apply for insurance 
cover, which explains why it was set up for Mr M only.
Mr M wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job and the couple didnt have any other 
means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I consider that they had a need for the policy 
and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the PPI, 
particularly in relation to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have 
been excluded under the policy. As I think that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policy 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
On another matter, Mr M has spoken about the circumstances around losing his job on two 
later occasions. Im unable to consider these issues here as this decision is just about 
whether the PPI was mis-sold or not in 1999. And on balance, I have concluded that it was 
not mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman