DRN-2088976
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms B took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in April 1997. This 
protected their mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mr and Ms B mainly said they were unhappy because they were told that to obtain the 
mortgage they had to take out a payment protection policy  and it wasnt made clear that 
the policy was optional. They say it wasnt properly explained and they were sold a policy 
they didnt require.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Ms B could provide any signed paperwork from when the PPI was 
sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr and Ms B told us 
they made their mortgage application during a meeting. 
I cant know exactly what was said about PPI when Mr and Ms B arranged their mortgage 
and took out this policy. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall word 
for word what was said at the time. 
This means that what Mr and Ms B say now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold this complaint. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely.
Mr and Ms Bs mortgage was a major financial commitment and it was set up to be repaid 
over a substantial number of years. 
Their home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI 
provided dependable protection and offered them benefits over and above any 
arrangements they had in place already to help them make their mortgage repayments. 
So, I can see why they mightve felt this policy was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Ms B wanted to have the benefits that PPI 
offered them and that Lloyds added the policy to their mortgage account when Mr and Ms B 
decided to buy it.
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Ms B. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI. Given the lack 
of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Ms B, I think this is the fairest way 
to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. 
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable.   
Mr and Ms B took out this borrowing in joint names when they were both in work and 
contributing towards paying the mortgage. They told us they had joint cover under the policy. 
So although Lloyds couldnt confirm whose name the policy was in, I think its reasonable to 
assume that Mr and Ms B probably wouldve shared the policy benefits between them. 
So, with no paperwork to show who had the PPI, I think the fairest way to assess their 
complaint is to look at it on the basis that Lloyds recommended PPI for them both. 
Even taking into account Mr and Ms Bs employment circumstances and everything theyve 
told us about their financial circumstances, it still looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a 
suitable recommendation based on what Mr and Ms B have said about their situation at the 
time. 
Mr and Ms B were both entitled to 3 months full sick pay. The policy couldve paid out for up 
to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness. It wouldve covered their 
mortgage repayments and paid out an extra amount that Mr and Ms B could have put 
towards helping pay household bills (or anything they chose). 
So the PPI provided better protection than they couldve relied on getting through their 
employers.
And it wouldve paid out in addition to sick pay from their employers providing Mr and Ms B 
with a useful benefit at what mightve been a difficult time  especially if they had extra costs 
as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr and Ms B became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible so the policy provided long term protection for the mortgage.
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from an employer wouldnt have helped Mr B if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mr B mentioned having death in service benefits  but PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. 
And it looks like other insurance he had set up wasnt the same as the PPI arranged to 
protect Mr and Ms Bs monthly mortgage repayments. So this doesnt affect my decision. I dont know if Mr and Ms B wouldve always had savings they couldve relied on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. It appears they used money they had saved to carry out home 
improvements from time to time. So, as they chose not to put all their money towards 
keeping down the cost of borrowing, I think its likely that Mr and Ms B wouldve valued the 
protection PPI offered if it meant they could keep savings intact, to spend as they wished 
rather than have to use these to pay the mortgage, if they couldnt both work.
  
And whilst theyve mentioned having family they couldve relied on, relying on other people 
to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Ms B with their mortgage was suitable. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I've thought about whether this would make any overall difference to the 
outcome of their complaint. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr and Ms Bs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
Mr and Ms B paid for this policy each month. I havent seen anything to suggest that paying 
for the policy was a problem for them. And they couldve cancelled it at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay to keep the policy Lloyds sold them. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Ms B still wouldve decided to buy the policy to 
protect Mr B even if theyd been better informed as it provided useful protection in their 
particular situation. I dont think having clearer information wouldve put them off buying it. 
So I dont find that Mr and Ms B have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong when 
it sold them this PPI policy. This means theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman