DRN-2301122
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
his buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L received a renewal quote from Triton towards the middle of December 2018, to renew 
his buildings and contents insurance policy a couple of days later with a new insurer. To 
ensure his policy remained in force, Mr L paid the full premium before the renewal date. The 
amount paid was £384.30.
Some time after Mr L had renewed the policy, his house was flooded twice in quick 
succession. A local river had burst its banks. Mr L tried to report the flood to Triton but was 
unable to get a response from them. Because of this, and because he needed to ensure 
repairs were covered as part of his policy, he decided to speak to the insurer shown on his 
paperwork from Triton. The insurer told Mr L that Triton hadnt passed his insurance 
premium to them and hadnt set his new policy up. They told Mr L that any policy he thought 
he had with them wasnt valid and he should contact Triton to make a complaint. 
Mr L tried to make a complaint to Triton, but he was unable to get through to them. So, he 
asked our service to look into this for him. In the meantime, Mr L was arranging for the 
repairs to be carried out himself. 
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr L. She asked Triton to treat Mr L as if he was insured and to 
arrange to settle his claim. She also said Triton should pay interest on that amount and pay 
Mr L £100 compensation for the upset the matter had caused him.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr L has provided. I find his 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mr L paid Triton before his policy renewed to ensure his policy remained active. And, once 
he was aware that he didnt have any insurance cover in force, he made sure he sought 
cover with an alternative insurer. 
The insurer shown on Mr Ls paperwork from Triton has confirmed that Triton never passed 
on Mr Ls premium payment to them and never asked them to set up a policy. Unfortunately, 
Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Mr L with an 
explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton didnt set Mr Ls policy up 
as he intended them to do, and Im also satisfied that Triton never passed Mr Ls payment to 
the insurer shown on his paperwork. 
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to have to put Mr L back into the position he would have 
been if Triton had acted as they should have as Mr Ls insurance broker. They should now 
treat Mr L as if he was insured and should cover Mr Ls insured losses, allowing for any 
relevant policy excess. Triton should also pay interest at 8% simple from the date of Mr Ls 
claim until the date its settled. Mr L has also confirmed that he tried to speak to Triton to 
report his claim, and he wasnt able to get through to anyone. Tritons phone lines werent 
connecting. Mr L only found out that his policy wasnt in force when he called the insurer 
shown on his paperwork. Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr L 
£100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset 
caused in this case.
My final decision
Treat Mr L as if he were insured;
Pay for all Mr Ls costs that wouldve been covered by the policy, minus any relevant 
policy excess;
Pay interest to Mr L at 8% simple on the amount due from the date of the claim until 
the date of settlement; *
Pay Mr L £100 compensation for the upset hes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman