DRN-4040333
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments she 
didnt make.
What happened
Miss B disputes three cash withdrawals from her account which came to £620. She says she 
was at work at the time of the first one. And hadnt received the replacement card and PIN 
used to make them. She wants the money refunded.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the payments. It said that Miss B had earlier reported 
online fraud with her card details. And so, a new card and PIN were sent to her home 
address on different days. Miss B hadnt told it about any problems with her post. And it 
didnt think it would be feasible for a third party to intercept both the card and PIN.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss B hadnt had other 
problems with her post. She didnt think it most likely a fraudster would have been able to 
intercept both her new card and PIN as these were sent in plain cover. The fraudster didnt 
access all the available money in the account as quickly as possible. The first withdrawal for 
£300 was made at 20:51 on 29 April 2022. And the next not until 01.44 on 30 April 2022. 
Miss B had said she was at work at the time of the first payment. But this wouldnt have 
stopped her consenting to someone else using the card. While the first withdrawal was some 
way from her home address the next two were near her address.
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. These payments had put her 
into debt, and she was struggling despite working hard. She had never seen the PIN and the 
new card. She didnt give anyone permission to take the money out either. The postal 
service gave people the wrong mail all the time and there had been past reports of local 
postal fraud. She was unhappy to be treated as a criminal as she was the victim here. She 
wanted her money back as she had been caused so much stress and anxiety and this is a 
significant amount for her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss B wouldnt generally be responsible for them. 
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss B authorise the payments on the account which could have been by allowing 
someone else to use her card?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened, but Ill be thinking about what is most likely.
Im satisfied that these cash withdrawals were made when the chip on the genuine card was 
read, and the correct PIN entered first time and so authenticated. The issue is whether   
Miss B consented to them.
Shes explained that somehow her previous card details were compromised and used to 
make online payments. She reported that and a new card and PIN were ordered and sent to 
her home address. Miss B says she has a maisonette she shares with a family member. 
And that she and another address share one letter box but she doesnt have any reason to 
suspect the person that lives in the other maisonette or anyone else. There hadnt been any 
other post going missing from her address. She has since provided information including 
from other residents about problems in the area. Miss B has also shown she has pursued 
this with the postal service and the authorities.
Halifax has stated that the card and PIN were sent out separately. They were clearly 
available for use more quickly than the typical five working days allowed. The old card was 
cancelled on 25 April 2022 and the details replaced on 26 April 2022.
Miss B has said that she accessed her new card details on-line (which I can see from online 
banking records on 26 April 2022) and used this to add her card to her mobile phone 
payment wallet. And that she made online payments using her new card details and 
contactless ones with her phone.
She has provided information she says shows she had a late shift at work on 29 April 2022 
until 22:30. And that she made payments at a local supermarket using her card details on 
her phone wallet. She didnt know the time of these, but I can see from Halifaxs records 
that the latest was one for £4.90 at 18:49. This is consistent with screenshots shes 
provided and says show an online chat with a colleague asking whether they wanted 
anything at 18:42. She provides later screenshots she says were a further chat with this 
colleague from her home at around 23.30
The first disputed withdrawal was made at 20:50 at a location some 20 miles away and 
followed a balance enquiry. This was for £300, and Halifax has shown that there is a £500 
withdrawal limit on her card each day. There were still available funds in the account after 
the withdrawal.
The next two for £250 and then £70 were made at around 01:44 and so in the early hours of 
the next morning and again followed a balance enquiry. Notably these were made much 
closer to Miss Bs address and it seems about 2 miles away. There was then a declined 
transaction for £30  it appears because there were no funds remaining. Theres no 
evidence of any further attempts to use the card for withdrawals after that. There is no 
CCTV as these were third party machines and in any event CCTV often doesnt help 
resolve if a person withdrawing the money had authority or not.
The online banking records show Miss B didnt access her account from 12:49 on 29 April 
2022 until 11:35 on 1 May 2022. At that latter time, she had just attempted to make two 
payments using her phone wallet which had been declined.
My assessment
Its not impossible that Miss Bs new card and PIN were both intercepted in the post 
although given the manner in which they were sent this is unlikely. And shes not 
established any prior problems with her post, or any specific action taken by the authorities given her reports. Id expect a fraudster to access funds in the account as quickly as 
possible as detection was a risk. It is unclear as a result why a person in possession of her 
card and PIN would first use a cashpoint some 20 miles away, not attempt to take the 
maximum out, and then next use the card at a location some two miles from Miss Bs 
address. And also have waited five hours before that. I appreciate Miss B has established 
the whereabouts of her phone that evening at 18:49 at least based on the payment made. 
As our investigator says that in itself wouldnt rule out her allowing someone else to use the 
card  or it seems potentially being at the cashpoint two hours later. I noted above that  
Miss B didnt access her account online or with her phone payment wallet for nearly 48 
hours. And that shed reported a different fraud with her previous card details only days 
before and hasnt identified anyone known to her who could have been able to access her 
details or post and so take money from her.
Ive balanced all these factors carefully together with the testimony and information provided 
by Miss B. Having done so I dont find it most likely that an unknown third party made these 
payments and that they were made without her consent. So, Im not going to be asking 
Halifax to take any further action. I know Miss B will be very disappointed by my 
conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman