DRN-3160764
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain Santander UK plc (Santander) have lost a cheque deposited with 
them.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R says they received a cheque drawn in Indian rupees from a relative and on 
its receipt they contacted Santander to ask how the cheque could be deposited into their 
sterling bank account. Mr R and Mrs R says they were initially told to visit their branch to 
bank the cheque and there would be a £10 fee for this. Mr R and Mrs R says when they 
visited the branch they were told they needed to send the cheque to Santanders processing 
centre, and they did. Mr R and Mrs R complained about this misinformation and were 
awarded £60 for the inconvenience. Mr R and Mrs R says after discussing this matter with 
Santander they were later told they do not accept cheques drawn in Indian rupees and had 
wasted their time sending the cheque to the processing centre. Mr R and Mrs R says 
Santander apologised again for the incorrect information given to them and paid a further 
£150 and suggested the cheque they sent them would have been destroyed and they would 
need to obtain a duplicate. Mr R and Mrs R says the relative who sent the cheque is very 
poorly and its unlikely they will obtain a duplicate and so Santander should pay the value of 
the cheque, which converts to approximately £600.  
Santander says they have apologised for the misinformation given to Mr R and Mrs R and 
have adequately compensated them for their mistake. 
Mr R and Mrs R werent happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says that Santander have informed this service, when it issued its final response 
letter to Mr R and Mrs R, the complaints investigator was unaware a letter had already been 
sent by recorded, tracked and signed for delivery a few days before, enclosing the cheque 
and provided a copy of this as evidence. The investigator acknowledged that Santander had 
given Mr R and Mrs R misinformation about their process for foreign cheques like this, but 
they had fairly compensated them for that. The investigator felt Santander couldnt be held 
responsible for the fact the letter and cheque hadnt been received and suggested Mr R and 
Mrs R might wish to take this up with the postal delivery business.
Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see it would have been upsetting for Mr R and Mrs R that a cheque they received from 
a poorly relative couldnt be deposited to their bank account and it was never returned to 
them.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted fairly by refusing to accept 
the Indian rupee cheque from Mr R and Mrs R, and if it was responsible for the returned 
cheque never being received.
Mr R and Mrs R complaint centres around the poor service provided by Santander and 
importantly once Santander had confirmed it couldnt accept the Indian rupee cheque; it was 
never returned to them. 
The first thing to say here is Santander have accepted it provided poor customer service, 
when it told Mr R and Mrs R to initially visit the branch to deposit the Indian rupee cheque, 
and then tell them to send the cheque to its processing centre, when in fact Santander do 
not accept cheques in this currency. In addition when Santander issued its final response 
letter to Mr R and Mrs R it failed to check, by that time, it had in fact returned the cheque to 
them with a covering letter and led Mr R and Mrs R to believe the cheque may have been 
lost, when in fact from the information I have seen, it wasnt. 
I say this because I have seen a copy of a letter dated 22 April 2021, four days prior to the 
issue of the final response letter from Santander, with a copy of the cheque that was 
enclosed, along with a copy of the related tracking notice and confirmation of its delivery to 
Mr R and Mrs Rs address. 
So, its fair to say, Santander have not provided Mr R and Mrs R the level of service I would 
expect to see, or following their complaint, a clear explanation of what actually happened 
here. That said, its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when mistakes occur, 
but to ensure they have apologised and adequately compensated consumers for such 
mistakes. I am satisfied it has here, and I say this because Santander have paid Mr R and 
Mrs R a total of £210 for the misinformation they gave them.  
Mr R and Mrs R says they never received the letter dated 22 April 2021, enclosing the Indian 
rupee cheque and says, having now seen the copy of the proof of delivery and tracking 
details, this was not signed or received by them. While I can understand how frustrating this 
must be for them both, I cant hold Santander responsible for the fact this hasnt been 
received, as the delivery notice confirms it was. Its also worth saying, I am satisfied, even 
though Mr R and Mrs R say they didnt receive the cheque back from Santander, it would in 
all likelihood have been enclosed in that letter. I say this because, theres no reason why 
Santander would have sent a stand-alone letter by a secure and signed for tracking method, 
if it didnt contain something of value. 
I understand Mr R and Mrs R are now pursuing this matter further with the postal delivery 
business and hopefully this may prove fruitful for them, but for the reasons I have already 
stated previously, I cant say that Santander are at fault for its non-delivery. 
While Mr R and Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Santander.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman