DRN-2272438
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society was unfair when it didnt transfer a 
mortgage into his sole name.
What happened
Mr C has a joint mortgage with Nationwide. He separated from his wife and the terms of their 
divorce require Mr C to transfer the mortgage into his sole name. Nationwide agreed to this 
on condition Mr C is released from liability for a joint mortgage for a buy-to-let property. It 
says the mortgage isnt affordable for Mr C, and the condition is necessary.
Mr C says the condition is unfair. He says Nationwide offered a mortgage without the 
condition and then added it later without his knowledge. He says hed made it clear he 
wouldnt proceed with the transfer into his sole name if there were any conditions relating to 
the buy to let property.
Our investigator said Nationwide hadnt been unfair. Responsibility for the other mortgage 
increased financial risk and affected the affordability of Mr Cs mortgage with Nationwide. 
There was no evidence Nationwide agreed to offer a mortgage to Mr C without the condition.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt understood the complaint. He said 
Nationwide agreed to offer him a mortgage on the terms he wanted, and changed the offer 
without telling him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
When he contacted us, Mr C said he wants his Nationwide mortgage transferred into his sole 
name. He said his complaint is that Nationwide added a condition related to his buy to let 
property to the mortgage offer without his or his brokers knowledge.
Mr C said this condition has been a sticking point in the past, and this is why he hadnt gone 
ahead with the transfer into his sole name previously. Mr C said hed fought to have this 
removed and thought hed succeeded, only to have Nationwide add the condition back into 
the offer. Mr C says this has been stressful and hes worried hell have to sell his home. 
There are two parts to Mr Cs complaint that I need to deal with. First, whether it was fair for 
Nationwide to include a condition related to the buy to let mortgage in the mortgage offer. 
And second, whether Nationwide offered a mortgage without this condition and then added it 
in without telling Mr C or his broker.
The change of borrower application
The FCA sets out in its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability before 
lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr C wants to vary his mortgage, by 
transferring it into his sole name. Nationwide has to assess whether this is affordable.  
Nationwide issued a mortgage offer in mid-2019. This is an offer to transfer the mortgage 
into Mr Cs sole name. But it includes a condition: that Mr C is released from liability for 
another mortgage. 
Nationwide says Mr Cs application doesnt meet its usual affordability rules (even without 
the other mortgage). It says its already made an exception to allow the mortgage to be 
transferred into Mr Cs sole name, and it cant remove the condition relating to the other 
mortgage. 
Mr C says hes applied to Nationwide a number of times. He hopes that if he provides 
evidence he can pay the mortgage Nationwide will remove the condition relating to the other 
mortgage. 
I understand Mr Cs point here. Hes paid the mortgage for some time. A court order made 
his ex-wife responsible for 50% of the payments for the buy to let mortgage, which reduced 
his monthly outgoings. On the other hand, the property was no longer being let out and so 
Mr C wasnt receiving rental income.
I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly. Rules on mortgage regulation say it has to assess 
affordability. While Mr C is on the mortgage account for the buy to let property hes jointly 
and severally liable for it. He has to contribute to payments. And the lender could ask him for 
more payments if his ex-wife doesnt make the payments the court order says shes 
responsible for. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide to take this into 
account when assessing affordability.
Mr C says hes worried hell have to sell his house if he cant take his ex-wife off the 
mortgage. In its final response letter, Nationwide referred to the court order relating to Mr Cs 
divorce as saying Mr Cs ex-wife cant take steps related to Mr Cs failure to remove her from 
the Nationwide mortgage until two months after the sale of the buy to let property. I asked 
Mr C to let me know if this summary wasnt right.
It seems the buy to let property is to be sold, and Mr C has two months after this to arrange 
for the Nationwide mortgage to be transferred into his sole name. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr Cs ex-wife could force a sale of his house before this.
Given Nationwides concerns about affordability, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for it 
to include a condition in its mortgage offer, that hes released from liability for the buy to let 
mortgage.
Did Nationwide mislead Mr C about removing the condition?
Mr C says Nationwide offered a mortgage without the condition relating to the buy to let 
property. He says he accepted this offer, and then found that Nationwide had added the 
condition afterwards.
Mr C hasnt been able to provide written evidence of this  such as a mortgage offer or an 
email. He referred to a decision in principle (DIP) but this isnt the same as an offer, and I 
wouldnt expect it to set out the terms of the offer and any conditions in the same way. Mr C 
sent copies of DIPs, and these say any offer will be subject to lending criteria.Nationwide says it didnt make an unconditional offer. Mr C says this is a cover up. But I 
hope Mr C will understand that without evidence to support what hes said, I cant reasonably 
find that Nationwide made this offer.
Mr C says he finds the condition unacceptable. He says he made it clear he wouldnt 
proceed with an offer that includes the condition. I appreciate his frustration. But Mr C 
applied to Nationwide and until it assessed his application and supporting documents it 
wouldnt be able to say whether it could issue a mortgage offer without conditions.
Overall, I dont think Nationwide treated Mr C unfairly. It follows that I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman