DRN-3478724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money they lost 
when they were the victims of a scam. 
What happened
The payments in this case were made from an account in Mr and Mrs Ps name but Mr P 
dealt with the scammer and the payments, so Ill mainly refer to him in my decision. 
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Mr P was looking to invest funds. He received a call and subsequent emails 
from about a bond from someone who said he worked for a well-known company, which Ill 
refer to as M. Mr P was taken through a security process and offered a bond that offered a 
rate of return of 6.875% per year. He was provided with a bond fact sheet. 
Mr P was provided with payment details for an account with M abroad and told that this 
office was dealing with his investment. But Mr P was unable to select the right payee when 
he tried to make the payment online and says he was advised to call HSBC to make the 
payment. The investment agent told Mr P that as hed missed his slot to invest his payment 
would need to go into an overnight account (as Ms system couldnt cope with thousands of 
transactions at once). He was given account details of a different company called S and told 
that S would hold the funds overnight and transfer them to the correct account with M the 
following day.
Mr P says he made a trial payment of £10,000 on 22 June 2020 and later received a security 
call from HSBC in which he confirmed he wished to make the payment. The following day, 
Mr P made a larger payment of £40,200 and received a further security call from HSBC.
The agent contacted Mr P about a further investment opportunity in July 2020 and Mr P 
made a further payment of £20,000 in respect of this. 
In late July 2020 Mr P contacted HSBC to report that he was the victim of a scam. Mr P 
didnt receive a certificate after making the £20,000 payment so tried to contact the agent 
using Ms contact details. He was told that nobody with the name the agent gave Mr P 
worked for M and realised he was the victim of a scam. Mr P was also told the email address 
hed been given was fake, as were the certificate references Mr P had been given.  
This last payment was made after the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code) came into force. HSBC offered to refund half of this payment but 
didnt agree to provide Mr and Mrs P with a refund of the earlier international payments. It 
said that it had done what it could to recover the payments but hadnt been successful. 
As Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with HSBCs response, they brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigation so far
While Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was with this service HSBC agreed to refund the remaining 
50% of the final payment Mr and Mrs P made.  
The investing\tor who considered this complaint recommended that the two international 
payments be refunded in full. He said that HSBC flagged the first payment Mr P made and 
had a conversation with him about it. But the conversation didnt go far enough and involved 
yes/no answers. The investigator said that had HSBC asked more appropriate questions the 
scam would have been uncovered as Mr P was cold called, wasnt paying the well-known 
investment company he thought he was dealing with and the reason for this should 
reasonably have caused HSBC concern. 
The investigator didnt think a deduction should be made to account of Mr Ps contribution to 
his loss. He said this because Mr P thought he was dealing with a well-known company and 
had completed some checks into this company but didnt know he was dealing with a clone 
of M.
Mr and Mrs P agreed with the investigators findings, but HSBC didnt. I have summarised 
the main points made by HSBC below:
- The investigators view focuses on Mr Ps familiarity with M and the apparent checks 
he completed in respect of M but doesnt cover the other companies and individuals 
involved and the research Mr P completed in relation to them. 
- Had Mr P contacted the genuine M at the time of payment hed have found out that 
the agent he was dealing with didnt work for M and the documents hed received 
were fake. 
- There was no FCA warning about clones of M at the time Mr P made the payments 
so any warning HSBC could give would just be a general investment scam warning. 
- The view didnt include any detail of how Mr P found out he was the victim of a scam. 
Such information is relevant to how hed have reacted if hed been given a warning. 
- HSBC think it unlikely Mr P would have chosen not to go ahead with the investment 
based on an investment scam warning. 
- The questions the investigator suggested HSBC could have asked were guided by 
hindsight.
- The investigator said the fact the payment was made to S should have caused 
concern and resulted in HSBC making detailed enquiries, but HSBC isnt required to 
act as an amateur detective. Also, the HSBC agent who called Mr P wouldnt have 
had investment experience. 
- HSBC referred to the general principle that customers should take responsibility for 
the decisions they make. 
- Theres no indication Mr P queried why he was paying S.
- Because the checks Mr P made in respect of M were inadequate and he didnt 
complete any checks into the agent he was dealing with or S, Mr and Mrs P should 
bear significant responsibility for making the payments.
- Finally, HSBC questioned the 8% interest rate and pointed out that as funds were 
transferred into the account the appropriate rate would be the one that applied to the 
originating account. 
I reviewed the complaint and told HSBC why I thought it should refund Mr and Mrs Ps 
losses in full. But I agreed with HSBCs point about the appropriate rate of interest to award. 
HSBC didnt agree and so I have reviewed everything each party has provided to issue this 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr P when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
HSBC has made an offer to refund in full the final payment of £20,000 Mr P made on 16 July 
2020, so I dont need to consider this payment any further except to say I believe the offer is 
reasonable. HSBC should also pay interest on this payment as set out below. 
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably in Mr and Mrs Ps case?
Mr and Mrs Ps first payment of £10,000 was unusual and out of character and this is why 
HSBC flagged it and had a conversation with Mr P. Id expect HSBC to ask probing 
questions to verify Mr P wasnt being scammed or at risk of financial harm in relation to the 
unusual and uncharacteristic payment hed requested. 
Ive listened to the call HSBC has provided in respect of this first payment and, having done 
so, I dont think HSBC did enough. Below are the questions the HSBC agent asked Mr P and 
his responses:
- Do you recognise the payment? Yes
- Was it your decision to make the payment? Yes
- How did you get the account number of the beneficiary? Given to me by M
- What is the reason for the payment? A bond
- A question aimed at email intercept scams"You have checked about the company just to make sure it's legit and safe? Yes
I consider HSBC should have asked the purpose of the payment, how he found out about 
the investment, some information about the investment like the rate of return and what 
checks hed completed. I dont consider that asking Mr P whether hes checked the 
company, without distinguishing which company or what type of checks is sufficient. I also 
consider that HSBC should have asked Mr P why he wasnt paying M as this was a clear 
red flag that something was wrong. 
Id also expect HSBC to provide appropriate investment scam warnings, including the 
prevalence of fake and cloned investment companies and how to avoid falling victim to this 
type of scam  but none were given. In its response to the investigators opinion HSBC said 
that at the time Mr P made the payments there was no clone warning in respect of M on the 
FCA website and so it could only have given Mr P a general scam warning. I accept there 
was no FCA warning but, as Ive said above, HSBC should have provided a warning about 
cloned investment companies. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by HSBC would have made a difference in this case. 
Having done so, its my belief that had HSBC asked proportionate questions and given Mr 
P a warning about cloned investment scams the scam would have been uncovered 
quickly. 
Mr P was cold called by someone purporting to be from M. The reason Mr P was given to 
pay S was not plausible to anyone who understands investment scams. Mr P explained to 
this service that the reason he made the payments to S and not M was as follows:
"I have missed my slot for investing the money would need to go in to an overnight 
account (after being informed that [M] deposited money overnight in a number of bank 
accounts as there system could not cope with all the thousands of transaction at once
I note HSBC has said its agent wouldnt have been familiar with investments so wouldnt 
have known it was odd to pay S. But the agent should have had knowledge of investment 
scams. Paying an account in a different name is a common feature of scams of this nature, 
as is being cold called and offered an attractive rate of interest. 
Had Mr P been provided with a warning I believe he would have taken additional steps 
before making the payment  and ultimately wouldnt have made it. Mr P wasnt alert to the 
potential for fake investment companies to appear as genuine ones. HSBC was the expert 
here and I feel HSBC should have done more to ensure Mr P wasnt at risk of being 
defrauded. I see no reason why Mr P wouldnt have taken HSBCs warnings seriously if hed 
been cautioned to consider and check the legitimacy of the investment and the reason for 
paying S before proceeding. 
HSBC commented that the view doesnt discuss how Mr P realised he was the victim of a 
scam and that this information is relevant to any consideration of how hed have reacted to a 
warning about investment scams. The detail I have provided in the What happened section 
of this decision was provided to HSBC when Mr P reported the scam and is in HSBCs file. 
Mr P didnt receive a certificate in respect of a bond and used Ms genuine contact details to 
enquire about it. 
Given what I have said about the first payment it follows that I also consider that Mr Ps 
second payment should have been refunded  this payment wouldnt have been made if the 
scam had been uncovered when the first payment was made.Ive also thought about whether Mr P did enough to protect himself. I think he did. Mr P 
thought he was investing through a very well-known company. He didnt receive any kind of 
warning about clone investment companies and so had no understanding that its possible to 
receive emails and documents that seem as though theyve come from a genuine company 
but in fact have been sent by fraudsters. Im not persuaded that, particularly in the absence 
of any knowledge of cloned firms, Mr P should have contacted M to check that the person he 
was dealing with actually worked there. This is something that those with a detailed 
understanding of fraud and scams would do, but not the average customer. 
HSBC has said there was no indication Mr P queried why he was paying S and not M. Ive 
covered above Mr Ps understanding of this. Whilst to those with knowledge of scams the 
explanation wasnt plausible, I can appreciate why Mr P was reassured by what he was told 
and went ahead with the payments. Im not persuaded that the average customer would 
complete detailed research into S in these circumstances. 
Ive also noted that Mr P initially made a test payment of £10,000. It was only when he 
received confirmation of receipt of his funds that he transferred £40,200. 
I agree with HSBCs comments about interest in respect of the first two payments. Mr and 
Mrs P transferred funds into their joint account to make the two international payments and 
so should not receive interest at the rate of 8% per year as recommended by the 
investigator. Applying this interest rate would put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if the 
scam hadnt taken place. Mr and Mrs P transferred £50,233 from a savings account just 
before making the scam payments so interest should be paid at the rate applicable to that 
account. The final payment of £20,000 was transferred from Mr Ps business account. HSBC 
has already refunded 50% of this payment. Interest on the remaining £10,000 should be paid 
at the rate that applied to the business account  as set out below.
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this complaint, to say HSBC ought to have done more to help Mr and Mrs 
P. Had it done so, Im persuaded they wouldnt have suffered the loss of £50,200 so HSBC 
should refund this amount and add interest as set out below. It should also refund any 
international payment fees Mr and Mrs P were charged in respect of these payments. 
If HSBC hasnt done so already, it should also refund the outstanding 50% of the final 
£20,000 payment Mr and Mrs P made on 16 July 2020 together with interest as set out 
below. 
My final decision
I require HSBC to:
- Refund Mr and Mrs Ps loss (£50,200) plus any international payment fees charged 
in respect of these payments;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate that applied to the savings account the 
funds were transferred from. This interest should be paid from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
- If HSBC hasnt already done so refund the remaining £10,000 of the final £20,000 
payment;
- If HSBC hasnt already done so pay interest on the above amount at the rate that 
applied to the business account funds were transferred from (if the account attracted 
any interest). Interest (if any) should be paid from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman