DRN-3816920
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
References to AXA include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C contacted AXA to make a claim for two stolen bikes, as well as damage to 
their garage. AXA agreed to settle the claim. For the bikes, AXA offered £5,000. However, 
AXA reassessed the claim and said it had applied the wrong policy limit for one of the bikes 
and the second bike wasnt covered at all. 
When Mr C and Mrs C complained, AXA maintained its decision on how it would settle the 
claim. It offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. So, Mr C and Mrs C 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld it and said AXA needed to increase the 
settlement for the specified bike to the amount it was insured for and pay £350 for the 
unspecified bike.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I will consider how AXA dealt with the claim overall, but will start by focussing on what AXA 
offered in final settlement. Mr C and Mrs C claimed for two bikes. Bike 1 was specified on 
the policy with a value of £900. When AXA agreed to replace bike 1, it did this through a 
specialist company. That company didnt stock the same model of bike that was stolen. So, it 
offered what it considered to be a like-for-like replacement. Mr C and Mrs C didnt want to 
accept the bike offered. In part, this was because they didnt have confidence in the 
company due to the problems with the claim, along with poor online reviews. It also wasnt a 
local company, so Mr C and Mrs C were concerned that if there was an issue with the bike, it 
would be difficult for it to be dealt with. 
The policy described how a claim would be settled. This said it would repair, reinstate or 
replace property. Where AXA could replace an item through a preferred supplier, but then 
agreed to offer a cash settlement, the payment would be for no more than it would have paid 
the preferred supplier. However, where a replacement wasnt available, the policy said AXA 
would pay the full replacement cost. So, AXA was entitled to offer to replace the bike and to 
reduce the amount it offered where it could do so, but the policyholder requested a cash 
settlement. So, I think AXA did what the policy said it would in order to settle the claim, even 
if Mr C and Mrs C had concerns about the company AXA used. But, I think the issue is 
whether the bike offered was appropriate.
Mr C and Mrs C have said the bike offered wasnt a like-for like replacement. Theyve 
described to this service what they consider to be the differences, including the quality, 
warranty and reputation of the bike and the price and component match. They said the bike 
frame was a different brand, which meant the style/design, tube size and weld is different in 
terms of quality. They also had concerns about the suspension on the front forks and said 
the tyres, rims and cranks were all different. They said the only items of similar quality were 
the brakes. 
Ive also looked at why AXA based its offer on a different bike. The company it used said 
Sometimes it is necessary for us to deviate away from the brand to be able to offer the 
equivalent in specification and quality. For example in cases where the bike is discontinued 
or we dont stock that brand. The company seemed to offer a different replacement bike 
because it didnt stock the one Mr C and Mrs C had. That doesnt show me the bike offered 
was comparable in terms of specification and quality. If, as Mr C and Mrs C have said, the 
bike had a number of differences in terms of quality and design, the bike they were offered 
wasnt a like-for-like replacement. So, it wasnt fair for AXA to reduce the cash settlement on 
that basis. Based on what Ive currently seen, Im more persuaded by Mr C and Mrs Cs 
explanation of whether the bike offered was a like-for-like replacement. As a result, I 
currently intend to say that AXA should pay Mr C and Mrs C a cash settlement for the bike at 
the full value for which it was insured, which was £900.
Ive also thought about bike 2. This bike wasnt specified on the policy. It seemed to be 
valued at over £5,000. Mr C and Mrs C have said they should be paid £350 due to the 
wording in the policy that said:
Unspecified Pedal Cycles: Your policy automatically includes cover for pedal cycles, when 
you have chosen contents cover, cover is provided up to the amount shown in the summary 
table.
I note that immediately below this it said:
Specified Pedal Cycles: Pedal cycles valued above the unspecified pedals cycles limit, or 
exceeding the total pedal cycle limit need to be specified on your policy. Specified pedal 
cycles will appear on your policy schedule and are covered to the amount specified.
On the next page, it summarised the contents and pedal cycles exclusions and said:
Loss or damage to any single pedal cycle worth more than £350 (unless specified), or when 
the total value of pedal cycles is worth more than £1500 (unless specified)
In the summary table referred to above, the policy said the unspecified pedal cycle limit was 
£350. On the page immediately before that table, it also said:
Important: You need to tell us about (to specify) any items worth more than £1,500. Any 
items individually valued above this amount that you havent told us about and arent 
itemised in your policy schedule arent covered.
Please also tell us about any pedal cycles valued over £350.
Ive also looked at each of the parts of the policy Mr C and Mrs C referred to which they said 
showed their claim should be settled. This included the £5,000 cover limit for contents in 
outbuildings, the contents definition in the policy, which referred to pedal cycles and the theft 
exclusions under both the buildings and contents parts of the policy. Ive thought about 
these, but the policy needed to be read as a whole, including the section that specifically 
referred to pedal cycles. 
I havent seen anything that currently persuades me the policy was unclear about what was 
required for a bike to be insured under the policy, including that bikes worth over £350 needed to be specified in order for cover to be in place. I also havent seen anything that 
said where a bike worth over £350 wasnt specified that a claim would be settled for £350. 
So, I currently intend to say that it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim for bike 2.
Im also aware that Mr C and Mrs C initially thought their claim would be settled for £5,000. 
However, AXA then reviewed this and offered a much lower amount and only for bike 1. An 
insurer is entitled to review a claim. Where it changes how it will settle a claim, I would 
expect it to explain this to the policyholder and to look at whether it should offer 
compensation for loss of expectation. In this instance, AXA offered £200 compensation. 
Looking at everything that happened, I think that is reasonable in the circumstances and I 
dont intend to require it to pay any further compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 November 2022.
AXA said it had nothing further to add. It said it had already paid £200 compensation.
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with my decision. The said there was wording in the policy that 
completely contradicted the section on pedal cycles. They said the policy was too 
ambiguous. They provided a list of the parts of the policy they were referring to. They also 
said it was concerning that I had referred to a replacement on a like-for-like basis, as the 
policy was for a new for old replacement. Mr C and Mrs C said their broker and AXA had 
both said the wording was ambiguous.
For the second bike, Mr C and Mrs C said they might have to accept they didnt have 
sufficient cover, but said they were willing to accept the value of £350, even though the bike 
was worth more than this. They said it was untrue for the policy to state that pedal cycles 
were automatically included, as it was pretty much impossible to replace a bike for that 
amount. 
Mr C and Mrs C said the compensation was also nowhere near enough for the 
inconvenience and upset caused to them. They described how they had been dealt with 
throughout the claim and also the impact on their son, including how it has affected his 
wellbeing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive read everything that was said in response to my 
provisional decision, even if I dont comment on it here.
When I made my provisional decision, I read each part of the policy booklet that Mr C and 
Mrs C referred to, as well as reading the policy booklet more widely to see if there were 
other relevant references and to consider the terms of the policy in context. Following my 
provisional decision, Ive checked the policy wording again, including the points Mr C and 
Mrs C have highlighted. Having done so, this hasnt changed my view about how this claim 
should be settled.
I can see that my reference to a replacement on a like-for-like basis might have caused 
some concern. So, I will clarify this. As I explained in my provisional decision, the policy said 
that AXA would repair, reinstate or replace property. Where AXA could replace an item 
through a preferred supplier, but then agreed to offer a cash settlement, the payment would be for no more than it would have paid the preferred supplier. However, where a 
replacement wasnt available, the policy said AXA would pay the full replacement cost.
For bike 1, the issue was that the bike supplier wasnt able to offer an exact replacement. 
So, I looked at whether what was offered was comparable in terms of specification and 
quality in order to be considered as a fair basis on which to decide the settlement. I said I 
didnt think what was offered was fair in the circumstances, which is why I said I thought AXA 
needed to offer a higher settlement.
For bike 2, I still havent seen evidence that persuades me AXA needed to offer settlement 
for it. I havent seen anything that said where a bike worth over £350 wasnt specified that 
AXA would settle the claim for £350.
Ive also thought about compensation. I was sorry to learn of the impact on Mr C and Mrs Cs 
son and how the loss of the bikes has impacted him in particular. However, looking at the full 
circumstances of this complaint, I remain of the view that £200 is an appropriate amount of 
compensation. Im aware AXA has said this has already been paid, in which case it doesnt 
need to pay any further compensation.
Putting things right
AXA should settle the claim for bike 1 for £900. It should also pay a total of £200 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim for bike 1 for £900. 
It should also pay the £200 compensation it offered if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman