DRN-3691146
The complaint
Mrs B complains that about an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) Fund that she was 
advised to invest in. She says that the fund manager, Thompson Taraz Managers Limited 
(TTML) didnt manage the fund in line with the information memorandum. 
What happened
In February 2017 Mrs B was advised, by another firm, to invest £64,350 in an EIS called 
Earthworm Enterprise Investment Scheme. This fund was managed by TTML, with another 
company that Ill refer to as E acting as TTMLs adviser and proposing companies to invest 
in. 
The funds strategy involved investing in EIS qualifying companies that were seeking to 
build and operate shovel-ready recycling and environmental facilities. The Information 
Memorandum (IM) set out key risks which included:
General risks to do with the industry itself and the type of machinery used in waste 
disposal and recycling, as well as the general risks associated with investing in 
unquoted companies. 
Risks relating to the EIS status of the companies which the fund would invest in  in 
particular, the fact that any tax relief could not be guaranteed in the event of an 
individual company ceasing to carry on the business of the type prescribed for EIS 
qualifying companies. 
Sector specific risks to do with changes in legislation around waste disposal. 
It also detailed four investment opportunities being considered, with key information about 
these individual companies being set out. In accordance with the investment memorandum, 
TTML invested across three of the four companies which were covered in the memorandum.  
TTML ceased managing the fund in September 2018, and by 2021 all three companies had 
gone into liquidation. This meant Mrs Bs investment of £64,350 was lost so she complained. 
In short she said:
Her losses were due to mismanagement of the fund and she didnt believe TTML had 
complied with its due diligence obligations and its obligations as an Alternative 
Investment Fund Manager (AIFM). 
The IM said that the fund wouldnt employ any leverage and that the companies may 
borrow but in negligible amounts. She said her understanding was that one of the 
companies had taken on significant debt obligations contrary to this. 
The IM promoted the investment as being asset backed and offering a significant 
level of asset protection. However she said that a charge of assets was granted to 
creditors, and land on which one of the plants had been built on was subject to a 
specific type of lease that reverted back to the lessor when there was a default. This 
meant there was in fact no asset protection. 
She asked about what criteria were used and what best practices were complied with 
in order to select the companies to invest in. She also said that two of the companies 
were reliant on the same company to provide heat for the plants  and challenged 
TTML to explain how this couldve been reasonable given that a failure of that 
company wouldve caused two thirds of the value of the fund to be lost. 
One of the companies had two years to build a plant but didnt do so  and she 
challenged TTML to explain how this was allowed to happen. 
TTML provided a detailed final response. In summary:
It confirmed it had carried out all appropriate due diligence, but was unable to share 
the relevant documents with Mrs B as these were commercially sensitive in nature. 
It said that in relation to one of the firms, TTMLs due diligence showed that it had 
pre-accreditation received from HMRC, and that its third party plan qualified for a 
government scheme. However, by 2019 the government at the time announced that 
the scheme might be withdrawn, and as a result the third party funders pulled out. It 
said that this was not foreseeable by it at the time the investment due diligence was 
performed in 2017. 
In relation to the two other firms, it outlined the reasons for why they failed and said 
that those reasons were not reasonably foreseeable in 2017, nor via the due 
diligence that was carried out. It said that until September 2018 when TTML was 
responsible for the management of the fund, the companies were performing as 
expected. It reiterated that it did not think the poor performance of the companies in 
question was due to anything it couldve foreseen or uncovered as part of its due 
diligence. 
The debt that Mrs B made reference to was fully discharged by August 2017, and the 
new debenture which that specific company had taken on was created in October 
2018, after TTML ceased to be the fund manager. 
In relation to the asset backed guarantee claim within the IM, TTML said that it had 
no knowledge of the arrangements entered into after its involvement. It said that 
there were non-typical trading conditions in 2019 and 2020 which likely made it more 
difficult to find buyers for the types of assets that individual companies owned. In 
addition, TTML said that it was clear from the IM that Investments in Investee 
Companies may be realised for substantially less than the acquisition cost or may be 
impossible to realise at all. 
It disagreed that there was a common reason between the three companies for why 
they failed, and explained the various circumstances which affected and ultimately 
caused the liquidation of those firms. 
Overall, TTML said that it had carried out adequate due diligence and there was always a 
risk of the individual firms failing, which it said was clearly set out in the IM. Mrs B remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. In short, she 
said:
In terms of the due diligence carried out, the investigator was satisfied that TTML had 
carried it out reasonably and obtained relevant information. This included summary 
of the business activities, financial statements, the financial position at the time, 
financial forecasts, assets and liabilities and personnel checks. In addition, each 
company had obtained assurance from HMRC that it qualified for EIS relief. She 
confirmed that disclosing the actual due diligence carried out was not something 
TTML was required to do given the commercially sensitive nature of it  but she 
confirmed she had seen and considered those documents when reaching her 
assessment. 
TTML had a discretionary mandate to manage the fund, and whilst Mrs B had 
questioned some of its investment decisions, the investigator did not consider that 
was this services role  particularly given the benefit of hindsight all parties now 
had. She said that the performance of the fund itself was not evidence that it was 
mismanaged or that something had gone wrong. 
In relation to Mrs Bs concerns about the debts incurred by one of the companies 
TTML had invested in, she had reviewed the statements for the year ending 30 April 
2017, which was shortly after the funds were invested. She said that this showed the 
firms assets amounted to £4.7m and its debts £1.8. In the investigators view, this 
showed that there wasnt significant gearing or over exposure to debt. She 
acknowledged that the same firm created another debenture in October 2018, but as 
this occurred after TTML stopped managing the fund, she didnt think she could hold 
TTML responsible for not having foreseen or known about it. 
Finally, she said that in relation to the assets owned by the individual companies, it 
was reasonable for TTML to have concluded that these assets would continue to 
hold value in the event that the firms were liquidated. She said the financial 
statements of the individual companies showed that TTML had selected them on the 
basis of the asset backed criteria  but she also said that the IM was clear that this 
was not intended as a guarantee that an investors money would be in some way 
protected or exposed to less risk than other available EIS investments. She said it 
was clear from the IM that investors money was at risk. 
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. She said that TTML 
was acting on her behalf and held a duty of care to manage [her] investment competently, 
diligently and in accordance with regulatory requirements. She said that given the outcome 
of her investment, she should be entitled to information to confirm what steps TTML had 
taken prior to investing in those individual companies, and what steps they took during the 
lifetime of her investment  and crucially what happened to those investments. She said she 
wasnt satisfied the matter could be resolved with so many unanswered questions. 
She said she needed to be sure that TTML had complied with the applicable regulatory rules 
and obligations, including ensuring sufficient due diligence was undertaken. 
She said that she considered TTML was obliged to provide this information, particularly 
given the position she was now in, and said she could see no reason why it would refuse if it 
was confident it had met its obligations. 
TTML agreed with the investigator but wished to point out that it had supplied the relevant 
information to the service, but had covenanted with the investment manager that this information would not be disclosed or published. It pointed out the relevant provisions in 
DISP which allowed the service to receive information in confidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for substantially 
the same reasons. Im sorry that I also dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already said. 
I understand Mrs Bs strength of feeling on this complaint, and the reasons why she 
considers it should be upheld. But I dont agree that the ultimate performance of the fund is a 
reason to conclude that TTML did not carry out sufficient due diligence on the companies 
which it ended up investing in, nor that it misled her as to the risks of the fund itself. 
In terms of the due diligence, Im satisfied that there is no rule that specifically requires 
TTML to share these documents with Mrs B for a fund of this type  and it has explained, 
persuasively in my view, why it cannot share them with her. Ultimately, TTML has asked this 
service to accept this evidence in confidence, and the rules which govern this services 
ability to look at complaints allows us to do this. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied that 
its appropriate for me to rely on this information in confidence and to take into account when 
reaching my findings. 
Furthermore, whilst I understand why Mrs B would like to see the actual documents 
themselves, she has been given a detailed summary by both TTML and the investigator. 
She has not raised any particular objections to those summaries, or explained why in her 
view they did not amount to adequate due diligence. So Im satisfied shes had an 
opportunity to consider and comment on the content and substance of the due diligence 
carried out, even she has not seen the actual documents themselves. The only argument 
she has put forward for why she considers TTML failed in its duty to carry out adequate due 
diligence and manage the fund properly is because the fund has failed, and she has lost her 
investment.
However, Im not persuaded by this argument. Ultimately, in reviewing the evidence TTML 
supplied to us, Im satisfied that it fairly and reasonably carried out the due diligence the 
regulator expected it to, in order to ensure that the companies it agreed to invest in met the 
criteria set out in the IM. The key issue is that the relevant rules are not prescriptive about 
the type of information TTML was required to collect and assess and so in reaching my 
conclusions about this, Ive paid particular attention to the IM, how it described companies 
would be chosen and what the purpose of this particular fund was. The investigator has 
already set out what information TTML obtained before agreeing to invest. In reviewing this 
information, Im satisfied that TTML, with advice from E, chose firms that were:
Selected on the basis of an assessment of their financial viability. 
Operated in the market and carried out the business which was specified in the IM.
Qualified for EIS relief at the time the due diligence was carried out and based on the 
relevant legislation as it was in force. 
Had the appropriate company arrangements, as well as the appropriate personnel, to 
run those companies in a way which gave them a chance to be successful and 
further the funds objectives. This is what the IM required TTML to do, and Im satisfied it did so. The ultimate 
performance of these firms was beyond the scope of what TTML was reasonably expected 
to foresee. 
Investing in EIS qualifying companies carries with it inherent risks which in my view were 
clearly laid out in the IM. Its these very risks which justify the tax relief that EIS investments 
can bring. Furthermore, its equally clear to me that this particular fund carried sector specific 
risks which Mrs B shouldve been aware of or alerted to. 
The fact that it operated in a particularly niche industry, which was also reliant on specific 
grants awarded by legislation meant that there was potential for regulatory changes to have 
a significant impact on the value of her investment  more so than perhaps other sectors. 
These risks were also clearly laid out in the IM. 
Mrs B has outlined a variety of other circumstances which she says demonstrate that TTML 
didnt do its job properly, but in reviewing her comments Im not persuaded. A number of 
facts she refers to happened after TTML stopped managing the investment. Some facts are 
in dispute  for example whether the same firm was providing heating to two of the 
companies that TTML had decided to invest in. But even if that wasnt in dispute, it isnt 
obvious to me why this would be unreasonable or inappropriate, even if it had been 
established at the time the due diligence was carried out. The fund as a whole was operating 
in a small and narrow industry sector, and I think its entirely understandable that there may 
well be some interdependencies between firms operating in the same sector. Im not 
persuaded this is evidence of insufficient due diligence being carried out, nor that the fund 
wasnt managed properly. 
In terms of the asset backed nature of these firms, Im inclined to agree with the investigator. 
The financial statements dont substantiate Mrs Bs claims that these firms were over geared 
or over exposed to debt at the time TTML decided to invest in them  and clearly anything 
that happened after TTML ceased to manage the fund is not something I can hold it 
responsible for. I dont think the asset backed nature of these firms is something that was 
intended to convince Mrs B that there was no risk to her capital, and I note that the IM 
specifically makes this point:
The Fund will be investing in businesses that are developing, purchasing and constructing 
buildings, plant and machinery. This should provide a significant level of asset protection to 
the Funds portfolio of investee companies but Investors should appreciate that their capital 
is at risk and they should read carefully the Risk Factors set out on pages 28-30 before 
making their investment decision. 
Later, the IM makes clear that Investee companies may fail, as may the assets they own or 
operate and Investments in Investee companies may be realised for substantially less than 
the acquisition cost or may be impossible to realise at all. 
So taking all this into account, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for TTML to have 
concluded that the three companies it chose to invest in met the criteria which had been set 
out in the IM. 
Im satisfied the level of due diligence it carried out was fair and reasonable, and furthermore 
that it was open and honest about the general risks associated with investing in a fund of this 
type, as well as the specific risks associated with this particular EIS fund given the sector it 
was operating in and its aims. 
Whilst I understand why Mrs B remains dissatisfied, and Id like to convey my sympathy for 
the substantial investment loss she has suffered, Im not persuaded, for the reasons Ive explained, that TTML has done anything wrong. Im also not persuaded that the performance 
of the fund itself is evidence of it not acting fairly and reasonably at the outset or during its 
involvement. For all these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman