DRN-4228493
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining about Premium Plan Limiteds (PPL) decision to lend to her  she says 
the loan was unaffordable. Shes represented in the complaint by a claims management 
company (CMC).
What happened
In August 2017, Mrs S took out a hire purchase agreement with PPL to finance the purchase 
of a car. She paid a deposit of £200 and borrowed around £4,600 over a 48-month term, 
with monthly repayments of £156.08. Mrs S made repayments on time until November 2018 
when a direct debit failed. She explained that this was temporary and made an arrangement 
to cover this by paying an additional £13 each month from December 2018. 
Mrs S made her repayments on time in December 2018 and January 2019 but then asked 
for a settlement figure as she was having problems with her car. The agreement was 
terminated in mid-March 2019 and the car was sold at auction for £450 as a non-runner. 
PPL added the difference between the average value for the car (£2,000) and the sale price 
to Mrs Ss total liability to them.
In August 2022 Mrs S complained to PPL via a CMC, saying PPL shouldnt have lent to her. 
At this time, PPL were contacting her regularly about a debt of around £2,670. The CMC 
said that the time of the lending decision, Mrs S had accounts in default which had been 
passed to debt recovery companies which was a clear risk indicator that the finance wasnt 
affordable for her.
PPL responded, saying theyd checked Mrs Ss credit file and bank statements, and 
discussed her circumstances with her on the phone. Theyd completed an income and 
expenditure assessment which showed Mrs S had disposable income of around £120 with a 
£50 buffer built in. And everything was re-checked by their underwriting team before offering 
to lend to Mrs S. So theyd concluded the loan was affordable for Mrs S and didnt uphold 
her complaint.
The CMC brought Mrs Ss complaint to our service and an investigator looked into it. Her 
view was that the complaint should be upheld. She said that although she could see PPL 
had done enough checks, she didnt think theyd made a fair lending decision based on the 
results of those checks. Our investigators view was that the fact Mrs S wasnt paying some 
key commitments, such as council tax and water bills, should have been a clear indicator 
that Mrs S wasnt in a position to sustainably afford repayments against a new agreement. 
So, she said, PPL needed to refund to Mrs S any payments shed made above a fair usage 
figure of £1,800.
PPL werent happy with our investigators view. They said theyd factored bills and council 
tax into their income and expenditure assessment even though Mrs S wasnt paying them. 
And they didnt think Mrs Ss repeated use of her overdraft should prevent her from 
borrowing. PPL noted that there werent any returned direct debits in the bank statements 
they reviewed, so they didnt agree that the bank statements showed the agreement was 
unaffordable. They added that Mrs S needed a car and had applied for finance because her 
previous car had broken down. They felt not having a vehicle would have a detrimental 
impact on Mrs S and her familys quality of life. PPL and our investigator couldnt reach an 
agreement so the complaints come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain more below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did PPL carry out proportionate checks?
Before offering to lend to Mrs S, PPL carried out an initial check of her credit file and bank 
statements for late April through to late July. They then spoke to Mrs S on the phone and 
asked about her circumstances, establishing that she was separated with three children and 
lived in rented accommodation. They also checked her rental agreement to confirm the 
rental charge.
Its clear from PPLs notes that they carried out a detailed review of Mrs Ss circumstances 
and that they completed an income and expenditure report based on what they found.
Im satisfied PPL completed proportionate checks when assessing the affordability of their 
hire purchase agreement for Mrs S.
Did PPL make a fair lending decision?
Having done their checks, PPL concluded that Mrs S could afford an agreement with 
repayments of up to £160 per month over 5 years. Theyd calculated her average monthly 
income as £2,785 and average non-discretionary expenditure as £2,666 per month (taking 
into account the repayments on the proposed agreement). 
When doing this calculation, PPL included amounts for various bills that Mrs S wasnt 
generally paying  they were being paid by her mother with Mrs S occasionally contributing. 
And they included 2% of the total amount in default on her credit file  although theyd noted 
from their call with Mrs S that she wasnt aware of these defaults. The figures included in 
PPLs expenditure analysis dont seem unreasonable, and many appear to have been taken 
directly from Mrs Ss bank statements. So I can understand why they thought the 
repayments would be affordable for Mrs S and it would be reasonable to lend to her.
However, Ive thought more widely about Mrs Ss circumstances. Her credit file shows that 
shed defaulted on a credit card in March 2017, just a few months before the date of this agreement. And the balance on that card was well over the limit. Shed defaulted on her 
water bills in August 2016. And she had defaults on home credit accounts, mail order 
accounts, other credit cards and utilities and an advance against income account  although 
all of these were much older, dating back to 2014 and earlier. Mrs Ss credit file didnt show 
any evidence that she was able to maintain regular repayments against credit  there 
werent any active, well-maintained lines of credit. 
Mrs Ss bank statements show that she wasnt making many regular payments at all. While I 
note PPL said she didnt have any returned direct debits in the period they looked at, there 
were only six direct debits, totalling less than £100, each month. These were for TV and for 
some repayment of her defaulted debts. There were no regular payments of rent (which was 
paid erratically), council tax, energy bills or water rates.  
CONC 5.3.1 G required firms at the time to assess a customers ability to meet repayments 
in a sustainable manner without incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. All of the evidence PPL had at the time suggested Mrs S couldnt 
meet her existing financial commitments, despite what their income and expenditure 
assessment said. So I dont think it was reasonable to say Mrs S would have been able to 
meet repayments on a new loan in a sustainable manner and without significant adverse 
consequences. It follows I dont think PPL acted fairly in lending to Mrs S. 
Putting things right
As I dont think PPL should have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mrs S had use of the car for 
around 18 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for 
working out what fair usage should be. However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive 
thought about the amount of interest that was charged under the agreement, the usage 
Mrs S likely had of the car and what her costs to stay mobile might have been had she not 
entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mrs S should pay is £100 for 
every month she had use of the car. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for PCF to 
retain £1,800. 
To settle Mrs Ss complaint, PPL need to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless this has already been done. 
Refund all the payments Mrs S has made (including the deposit), less £1,800 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Mrs S has paid more than the fair usage figure, PPL should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Mrs S has paid less than the fair usage figure, PPL should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once PPL has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file regarding the agreement.
If PPL consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mrs S a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mrs S can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. Premium Plan Limited must take the 
steps Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman