DRN-4437751
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined a 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has comprehensive motor insurance with Admiral. 
Unfortunately in September 2022 Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident after which he 
was taken into hospital. At the time of the accident Mr Ms alcohol limit was tested and he 
was found to be over the limit at the roadside. Mr M says he contacted Admiral a few days 
after the accident and was asked a series of questions around the accident circumstances. 
Mr M told Admiral that the police had attended the scene and a urine sample was taken 
which would be tested in the coming weeks. 
During the call Admiral explained it would be unable to proceed with the claim without the 
results of the test. It said if the urine test showed Mr M was over the legal alcohol limit to 
drive then Admiral wouldnt be able to deal with the claim. However if the test came back 
showing Mr M was under the limit then the claim would be dealt with.
Mr M says he was told it was usual practice for the underwriter to review the claim and once 
they had approved it Admiral would be able to deal with the claim. Mr M says he had around 
38 calls with Admiral and in each call he was told the same thing  that once the test showed 
Mr M was under the legal limit to drive the claim would be dealt with as normal. 
On 5 October 2022 Admiral declined Mr Ms claim on the basis that the policy had an 
exclusion that if, at the time of the accident, the driver was found to be above the prescribed 
legal limit of alcohol, the insurer would be unable to provide indemnity. 
Mr M provided Admiral with the urine alcohol test result of 26 October 2022 which proved he 
was not above the legal limit and therefore the policy terms hadnt been breached. Admiral 
declined the claim on the basis roadside testing showed Mr M was over the limit. Mr M 
maintains that was incorrect and the urine test confirmed this. He wants Admiral to deal with 
the claim and for him not to have to declare hes had insurance cancelled. So he complained 
to Admiral. 
Admiral said it could see Mr M was led to believe that if the urine test result came back 
negative then the claim would be covered under the policy. Admiral accept Mr M was 
provided with incorrect information. It said it would always repudiate a claim based on the 
roadside reading immediately following the incident. Admiral said receiving a negative urine 
sample after the incident wouldnt change the outcome.  It upheld the complaint and 
awarded Mr £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.. Admiral agreed there were 
delays in the underwriter reviewing the claim and a decision being made on the claim, as 
well as lack of responses to his emails. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Admiral so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. The investigator said the claim 
had been repudiated reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Admiral apologised for the misinformation, the delays, and lack of response to Mr Cs emails 
and paid Mr M £150 to reflect this. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he believed the test at the roadside was inaccurate and the urine 
test was taken shortly afterwards.   So our investigator looked into things again and upheld 
the complaint. She said breathalysers were known to be inaccurate and Admiral had no 
evidence as to what the roadside reading was, or when the urine test was taken in relation to 
the accident. The investigator thought Admirals investigation into the circumstances was 
inadequate. So she recommended Admiral pay the claim in settlement of the complaint. 
In response Admiral offered to reopen the claim and investigate the matter further. It said it 
was offering to do this because if it decided to overturn its decision to repudiate the claim 
and advise the claim department the reason it had overturned, the claims department could 
decide to investigate further and confirm the times the tests were taken, and this may be 
enough to refer back to underwriters for review and may result in further evidence to confirm 
the repudiation. Our investigator didnt agree. She said Admiral had enough time to 
investigate the complaint but didnt do so. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has pointed to the policy wording in section 11 Drink and drugs abuse clause which 
says; 
if an accident happens while any insured person is driving and:
Is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
Is driving while unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
Fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without 
lawful reason.
No cover under the policy will be given and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting the 
obligations as required by Road Traffic Law and we will cancel your policy. 
Mr M says the police didnt prosecute him for drink driving. But the terms and conditions 
dont state that hed have needed to be prosecuted or found guilty of drink-driving in court for 
Admiral to decline the claim. Indeed Admiral notes the standard of proof for criminal 
conviction is higher than the civil standard which is what an insurer requires to decline a 
claim under a contract of insurance. 
However based on what Ive seen Im not satisfied Admiral carried out a fair investigation to 
determine whether Mr M was, in fact, over the limit for alcohol at the time of the accident 
before deciding to decline the claim. 
It isnt in dispute that the reading from Mr Ms roadside breathalyser test was over the limit. 
But roadside breathalysers arent 100%accurate. The legal alcohol limit in the UK is 35 
micrograms of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath. I havent been given details of how much 
over the limit the breathalyser reading was. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that Admiral 
had a record of this. Admiral invites me to conclude that notwithstanding the lack of certainty around the roadside 
reading, the fact that it is agreed that it was indicatively over the limit is sufficient 
justification for it to decline the claim. I dont agree.
We know that Mr Ms subsequent urine test showed him to be under the legal limit, but 
Admiral didnt obtain a copy of the police report, or a copy of the breathalyser reading. So 
there is no way of knowing how far over the limit the breathalyser reading was. Ive seen a 
copy of the urine test results, but it doesnt show a time. It does show Mr M to have been 
comfortably under the limit when the urine test was carried out. And there is no evidence to 
show that Mr M failed to provide a sample when asked, or delayed in doing so, or in any 
other way failed to co-operate. 
Admiral said the result of the urine sample was no less than 72 milligrams with the legal 
limit being 107, 68% of the limit. Admiral admits it doesnt know what time the sample was 
taken but says there would normally be at least an hour or more delay before the sample 
was taken, but the time the policyholder was taken to the hospital and given the OK by a 
doctor, more likely two hours plus, but we just dont know. 
Admirals position is that on balance the policyholder would have been over the limit at the 
time of the accident because the breathalyser showed this, and he was over two thirds of the 
limit sometime after the accident. But the only really persuasive evidence here is the result of 
the evidential urine test taken a while afterwards, showing Mr M to be some way below the 
evidential standard to prosecute; so, overall, I dont think it has done enough to show that Mr 
M was actually over the prescribed limit when the accident happened, I dont think it was fair 
of it to decline the claim. 
It seems to me the fair thing to do here is for Admiral to pay the claim and remove the 
cancelled insurance marker from his record. It has already agreed to compensate Mr M 
£150. Ive thought carefully about whether £150 reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr M. And I dont think it does. 
Conclusion
Taking everything into account its clear to me that an award is due to Mr M for the distress 
and inconvenience this whole episode caused. I can see Mr M has been frustrated chasing 
Admiral and trying to resolve the matter. He told us he made 38 phone calls to Admiral, that 
he was misinformed the matter would be settled quickly, he wasnt able to get standard 
insurance, and has been caused distress and financial hardship. And so to reflect this, and 
the inconvenience caused, I think compensation in the amount of £400 is fair and 
reasonable. And is broadly in line with the awards which we make for trouble and upset as 
set out on our website. So I direct Admiral to Pay Mr M £400. 
Putting things right
To put things right Admiral should:
Settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
Add interest to the money paid in settlement of the claim at a rate of 8% simple per 
year calculated from one month after the date on which the claim was made until the 
date settlement is paid; and 
Ensure that any record of, or relating to, the cancellation of Mr Ms policy and/or the 
alleged incident is removed from their own and any other database records.
Pay Mr M £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience if it hasnt alreadyMy final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman