DRN-1971923
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) provided her with 
four unaffordable logbook loans. 
What happened
Mrs B was provided with an initial logbook loan of £1,000 in January 2014. The loan had a 3 
month term. Mrs B was then given a further three logbook loans over the following eleven 
months. Mrs Bs borrowing history is as follows: 
Loan Amount Date taken Total to be repaid Repayment Term
1 £1,000 January 2014 £1,245.00 £212.50 3 months*
2 £1,000 March 2014 £1,242.00 £87.50 3 months*
3 £1,000 May 2014 £1,242.51 £101.25 3 months
4 £1,000 December 2014 £1,350.00 £301.39 6 months
* funds from loan two cleared balance on loan one and funds from loan three cleared 
balance on loan two 
Our adjudicator looked at Mrs Bs complaint and concluded Mrs B shouldnt have been 
provided loans two to four. So our adjudicator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. Varooma disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints on 
our website and Ive considered this when reaching my findings.
Having looked at everything, I think there are three overarching questions I need to consider 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
questions are:
Did Varooma, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs B wouldve been able to 
do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Varooma ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further loans?
Did Varooma act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Varooma, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Varooma lent to Mrs B required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mrs B could afford to repay her loans in a sustainable manner. This 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. The 
affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Varooma had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mrs B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Varooma to think only about the likelihood that it 
would get its money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mrs B herself. The 
loans being secured on Mrs Bs car didnt alter, lessen or dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Were Varoomas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Loan one
For loan one, Varooma appears to have gone through an income and expenditure 
declaration with Mrs B. As I understand it, Mrs B was recorded as having a monthly income 
of £2,200.00. Varooma says the income and expenditure information showed that Mrs B had 
a monthly disposable income which was sufficient to cover the monthly payments of 
£415.50. Varoomas response also appears to suggest that it had sight of Mrs Bs bank 
statements, although its unclear as to whether it did because it hasnt provided copies. 
Ive carefully thought about what Varooma did. And, in my view, a less detailed affordability 
assessment, without the need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in circumstances where the total amount to be repaid is relatively small, there 
isnt anything to suggest that they are struggling financially and they will be indebted for a 
relatively short period. In this case, Im mindful that this was Mrs Bs first loan with Varooma, the term was relatively 
short and the monthly repayment required (as well as the total amount to be repaid) didnt 
seem unmanageable bearing in mind the income and expenditure declared by Mrs B. Given 
all of this, Im satisfied that Varooma carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
providing loan 1 and in these circumstances it wasnt unreasonable for it to provide this loan 
to Mrs B.
Loans 2, 3 and 4
As I understand it, Varooma asked Mrs B to supply evidence of her income when she 
applied for loan 2. Mrs B provided a copy of a payslip which showed that rather than earning 
£2,200 a month she was earning less than £900. And on top of this it was clear that Mrs B 
was using some of the funds from loan two to repay what she owed for loan one. So while 
the loan amount and term for loan two may have been similar to that for loan one, bearing in 
mind the discrepancies shown in relation to Mrs Bs income, I dont think it was reasonable 
to proceed with the application on the information gathered.
Im concerned that Varooma doesnt appear to have taken any steps to verify the 
expenditure information provided. Especially bearing in mind the high proportion of Mrs Bs 
monthly income that would be taken up by the loan repayment and that verification of her 
income had shown the information provided was inaccurate. Varooma might have thought 
that it didnt need to do this and that a light touch check was proportionate because Mrs Bs 
car provided security and shed repaid loan one  albeit by borrowing further funds. But I 
dont think that this was enough to constitute a borrower focused assessment. And I dont 
see how this considers the impact of the repayments on Mrs B  especially in light of what, 
the corroboration regarding her income indicates an overoptimistic declaration of her 
disposable income. 
As Varooma failed to verify Mrs Bs actual monthly expenditure for loan two and the 
subsequent ones even though she kept coming back for further expensive loans, before 
repaying her previous ones, I dont think the checks it carried out before providing any of 
these loans were fair, reasonable or proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on Mrs Bs loans have indicated to Varooma that she would 
have been unable to repay loans 2 to 4 in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check for loan one wouldve involved 
actually verifying Mrs Bs normal monthly outgoings and regular financial commitments. And 
as the lending continued, I wouldve expected Varooma to have found out more about why 
Mrs B kept having to come back for further loans despite what was being declared indicating 
she had no need for such expensive borrowing.
As Varooma didnt carry out proportionate checks for these loans, I cant say for sure what 
proportionate checks would most likely have shown. So I need to decide whether it is more 
likely than not that fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks wouldve told 
Varooma that it was unfair to offer these loans to Mrs B.
To help us understand for ourselves what Varooma would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs Bs loans, weve 
looked at her financial circumstances at the time. Having carefully considered the 
information, I think that a detailed review of Mrs Bs financial circumstances, would have 
shown that when her existing commitments alone were deducted from her monthly income, 
Mrs B had nowhere near enough funds to be able to sustainably repay loans 2, 3 and 4. And thats precisely the reason why she came back for loans 2 and 3 before shed repaid what 
she owed on her previous loan.  
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs B would not have been able to make the 
loan repayments to loan two without undue difficulty or the need to borrow further. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Varooma to the fact that Mrs B wouldnt be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to loan two. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Varooma ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Bs indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
For the sake of completeness, I think that its also helpful for me to explain that even though 
I did do so, I dont think that it was necessary for me to look at recreated affordability checks 
for loans three and four. I say this because in addition to assessing the affordability of each 
individual loan provided to Mrs B by Varooma, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at 
the overall pattern of lending. 
Im mindful here that the relevant rules and guidance make it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue lending where the loans are unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent 
that the customer may be experiencing financial difficulties. And I think by loan three, 
Varooma ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Mrs Bs loans had become 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. The factors that lead me to conclude that Varooma 
ought to have realised the loans from loan two were unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
the close proximity of these loans being taken out: 
oloan two was taken the day Mrs B made her final payment to loan one. 
oloan three was taken when Mrs B was due to make a payment to loan two. 
the total amount Mrs B owed Varooma increased from £1,245 (when she was 
provided with loan one) to £1,350 (when she was provided with loan four) this was a 
only a matter of months later and despite Mrs B having made some large 
repayments.
All of the above were clear indicators of Mrs B being in a difficult financial position. The 
overall pattern of lending, where Mrs B was advanced funds shortly after making payments 
suggests that Mrs B was having to borrow further funds to cover the hole left in her finances 
by making payments to these loans. 
And bearing in mind Varoomas obligation to monitor Mrs Bs repayment record and offer 
assistance should it appear that she mightve been experiencing financial difficulties, I think 
that Varooma shouldve offered assistance and/or a product that would allow her to 
sustainably repay what she owed. But instead of doing this, Varooma instead kept lending at 
high rates of interest. 
So I think that Varooma ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans from 
loans three onwards were unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mrs B and were unfairly 
and excessively increasing her overall indebtedness. And so it shouldnt have provided 
these loans to Mrs B.   
Did Mrs B lose out as a result of Varoomas shortcomings in relation to these loans?I think that Mrs B did suffer adverse consequences as a result of Varooma unfairly giving her 
these loans. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing and prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness 
to Varooma by allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time. These 
loans were expensive. Ive already spoken about the impact this had on her finances. And 
I think that the overall cost of these loans unfairly increased Mrs Bs indebtedness when her 
finances were already at an adverse and precarious financial position.
Secondly, the number of these high-cost loans within such a short period of time is likely to 
have had implications for Mrs Bs ability to access mainstream credit. The greater the 
presence of these loans on Mrs Bs credit file  especially where they were taken so quickly - 
the less likely Mrs B was able to rehabilitate her finances and regain access to mainstream 
credit. This is especially the case when bearing in mind her other affordability issues.
In my view, Varooma giving Mrs B this many loans on such terms placed her in a position 
where she was unfairly trapped into taking further loans from Varooma as no-one else, other 
than similar providers, would lend to her. I think that, in these circumstances, Mrs B had little 
choice other than to keep turning to Varooma and other similar providers for further loans, 
because she had little other real choice bearing in mind everything that had gone on 
previously. And, in my view, Varooma took advantage of the situation.
So overall and having carefully thought about everything provided and whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I think that Mrs B lost out because Varooma 
unfairly gave her these loans, which it ought to have realised were unsustainable, harmful 
and unaffordable for her. 
Did Varooma act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B in some other way?
Having carefully thought about everything provided, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Varooma acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B in some other way. 
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out at the 
beginning of the My findings section of this decision, I find that:
Varooma didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs B to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay loans 2, 3 and 4 in a sustainable way;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown 
Varooma that Mrs B would not have been able to repay these loans in a sustainable 
way; 
in any event, the overall pattern of lending ought fairly and reasonably to have alerted 
Varooma to the fact that the loans from loans three onwards were unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mrs B and that they were unfairly and excessively increasing 
her overall indebtedness;
 
Mrs B lost out as a result of having been provided with these loans;  These findings lead me to conclude that Varooma unfairly and unreasonably provided Mrs B 
with loans 2, 3 and 4 and that she lost out as a result. So Varooma needs to put things right 
for Mrs B.
Putting things right
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint for 
Varooma to put things right by:
Refunding all interest fees and charges Mrs B paid on loans 2, 3 and 4; 
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest, fees and charges from 
the date they were paid by Mrs B to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information placed on Mrs Bs credit file because of loan two;
removing all reference to loans three and four from Mrs Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint about Greenlight Credit Ltd 
and telling it to pay Mrs B compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman