DRN-2799594
The complaint
Mr H complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) unfairly recorded a 
marker on his credit file.  He would like for it to be removed and to compensated for Amexs 
actions.  
What happened
Mr H wrote to Amex in February 2005 to advise he wanted to close his account.  He also told 
Amex he was moving home and that any outstanding balance should be sent to the new 
address.  Mr H said he then had his post re-directed to the new address for the next 12 
months.  In November 2005 Mr H moved addresses again and this address does not appear 
to have been sent to Amex.
Amex didnt write back to Mr H. In fact, he says he didnt hear anything more from Amex until 
he raised his complaint with it in 2019.  Mr H had applied for a mortgage and said the 
application was declined due to an issue with his credit file.  When he checked, it appeared 
Amex had recorded a negative marker in relation to this account.
Amex said it received Mr Hs letter in February 2005.  However, instead of doing as Mr H 
instructed, it simply changed his address on record.  The account was not closed at that 
stage. It said the account continued to be used and it continued to send statements to the 
address Mr H had given in his letter of February 2005. Payments were also made to the 
account including one for a substantial amount.  Eventually however, these stopped, the 
account was defaulted in 2014 and a marker was placed on Mr Hs credit file.
But Mr H said he knew nothing about the transactions on the account.
When Amex did not uphold Mr Hs complaint, he came to this service. He wanted Amex to 
remove the marker and to pay some consequential legal fees which he had incurred.
Our investigator thought Amex had been unfair in how it had dealt with Mr Hs complaint.  He 
thought it should remove the marker and pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  Mr H accepted this, but Amex did not.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for me is Mr Hs letter which was sent in February 2005 where he asked 
for his account to be closed.  He also advised of a forwarding address.
Had Amex followed his instructions at that point, I dont think Mr H would have been put in a 
position where he had cause to complain.
13 months time limit
Amex say Mr H brought this complaint outside of the time limits allowed by the Payment 
Services Regulations.  Amex quotes the 2017 Regulations, but I think the relevant 
Regulations here would be the 2009 ones.  In any event, we havent been shown a copy of 
the terms and conditions to Mr Hs account so I cant say whether Mr H would have been 
told about this time limit in these.  Either way, I dont think, in the circumstances of this case, 
these time limits can fairly be applied.
disputed transactions 
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H 
authorised the transactions on this account, Amex is entitled to hold him liable.
Authorisation involves the use of Mr Hs card as well as his consent to the transactions.
Im satisfied that over the years, Mr Hs card would have been used but for the following 
reasons, Im not satisfied that he consented to the payments:
- the new cards and statements were being sent to an address which Mr H says he 
moved out of in November 2005.  He says he received nothing from Amex.
- Mr H would not have had any access to the cards being sent so I think its unlikely he 
was making the transactions
- Mr H advised of his change of address in February 2005.  I dont think that is the 
behaviour of someone who wanted to avoid his responsibilities
- Amex said it had sent statements from February 2005, but it cant show this service 
anything earlier than those sent in February 2007
- the transactions on the account appear to all be made online so a PIN was not 
required
So, as I am not satisfied that Mr H made or authorised these transactions, it follows that 
Amex cannot hold him liable for them.
Ive thought about whether Mr H could have done more when he moved addresses in 2005 
when he said he heard nothing more from Amex.  After all, he appears to have been 
expecting to pay off a balance.  But Ive seen nothing from Amex to confirm this was the 
case or whether in fact there was a balance on the account in February 2005.  I therefore 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Mr H responsible for any of the balance.
Turning then to the question of compensation, I refer to my earlier comments.  Had Amex 
followed Mr Hs instructions in 2005, then I dont think there would have been any reason for 
a negative marker on his file and Mr H would not have had cause for complaint.  I think £300 
is a fair and reasonable sum for the inconvenience Mr H has been put to.
Putting things right
American Express Services Europe Limited must:
- remove all relevant markers from Mr Hs credit file 
- pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman