DRN-3693748
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont 
refund the money they lost when they fell victim to a scam. Mr K, who is the director of G, 
brings this complaint on Gs behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In February 2022, Mr K received a call from someone purporting to work for Starling  but 
who was actually a scammer. Mr K has explained the caller knew details about the account 
G held with Starling  such as the last transaction and the balance  as well as his name 
and address. This persuaded him the call was legitimate. The scammer told him a payment 
had been made from Gs account which he hadnt authorised. So, to keep Gs funds safe, 
hed need to transfer them to B  who they alleged was a partner company of Starling. 
Mr K then made a series of card payments to B (listed in chronological order  they were all 
just a few minutes apart):
Payment one: £4,100
Payment two: £2,100
Payment three: £500
Following payment two, Mr K (at the scammers behest) attempted a payment of £790. This 
was declined due to insufficient funds  around £740 remained in Gs account. The scammer 
directed him to pay £500 instead, which went through successfully. It also appears that a 
further payment may have been attempted after this. 
Mr K says he became suspicious as the caller kept directing him to make further payments. 
When he questioned this, the caller hung up and he realised it was likely a scam. He 
reported this to Starling and asked it to refund G. It didnt agree. It said he hadnt completed 
due diligence and had disregarded a warning it gave when he authorised the payment. It 
also said it couldnt raise a chargeback claim to retrieve the funds from B.
Unhappy with this, Mr K referred the matter to our service. Our investigator thought Starling 
ought to have identified a fraud risk and performed further checks by the point of the second 
payment. And he didnt think G was negligent in not spotting the scam. So he recommended 
Starling refund payments two and three. Starling disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It is not in dispute that Mr K, as Gs director, authorised these payments. He 
understood that he was using his security details to allow payments to leave his 
account. And the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. But it is 
also not in dispute that Mr K fell victim to a scam. 
Starling is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that their customer is at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or to decline them altogether to 
protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
I have looked at how Gs account was being operated in the months prior to the 
disputed payments. They rarely made payments over £1,000. So the payments made 
during the scam were significantly higher than Gs usual spending.
I consider it reasonable that Starling wasnt immediately concerned about the first 
payment of £4,100. Customers may make the occasional payment that is higher 
value than usual without that indicating a fraud risk. But by the point of the second 
payment (for £2,100), G had made two higher-value payments, totalling £6,200, in 
quick succession, to a new payee. This was out of keeping with Gs usual account 
activity. Im satisfied there were enough triggers here to have alerted a responsible, 
regulated bank such as Starling that Gs account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. 
If Starling had contacted Mr K and asked him further questions and for more of the 
basic surrounding context, I have no reason to doubt he would have explained that 
he was being directed by who he thought was Starling to move funds to a safe 
account. So I think Starling would have realised this was a scam. Had it told Mr K 
that the call wasnt genuine, I think it would have succeeded in preventing Gs loss 
beyond the initial payment. 
Ive also thought about whether G should be held partly responsible. Starling argues 
they should as Mr would have seen a warning saying: Starling will never contact you 
and ask you to use this screen on the confirm your payment screen. But I dont 
consider it negligent that Mr K didnt realise the scam because of this. The message 
was part of the standard process that he would always have seen, so wouldnt have 
particularly stood out. It doesnt look particularly attention grabbing  its at the 
bottom in smaller font, and the user doesnt have to interact with it directly to 
proceed. I also consider the wording about using the screen a little unclear.  
Starling has also pointed out that the scammers asked Mr K to make a payment that 
was higher than his balance. But again, I dont think thats enough to have 
reasonably alerted him something was wrong. Mr K was under pressure, fearing Gs 
funds were at risk. And hed already been drawn in, persuaded by the details the 
scammers knew when they called. And the further payment they instructed him to 
make went through. In the context of this urgent and sophisticated scam, I dont 
consider G partly to blame for the loss.
I dont think Starling could have done more to recover the first payment. Starling has 
explained it falls under Mastercards chargeback scheme. But such a claim (subject 
to specific evidence requirements) would only succeed if G had an issue with the 
service of the merchant they paid directly. B operates a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange, and theres no suggestion it didnt provide a genuine service for the 
payment received. So Starling isnt at fault for not recovering this. 
Overall, I consider it fair for Starling to refund Gs loss from payment two onwards 
plus interest for Gs loss of use of the funds. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Starling Bank Limited to 
refund G £2,600 for their loss from the second payment onwards. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest on this amount, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman