DRN-3178305
The complaint
Miss S complains that Leeds Building Society (LBS) sent a statement to her previous 
address. 
What happened
Miss S holds a bank account with LBS and on 23 October 2020 she attended a branch to 
change her address. Miss S says she was told the address details had been updated and 
would take immediate effect. Miss S says in the first week of November, LBS posted her 
annual statement to her previous address  which is where her ex-husband lives. Miss S 
says the statement showed a large balance and because it was accessed by her ex-
husband it caused her significant distress. So, Miss S complained to LBS. 
LBS responded and explained the information for the annual statement was collated week 
commencing 6 September, and at this point they held Miss Ss previous address. They said 
the information was collated in September as it then allowed sufficient time to not only 
ensure the statements were printed and checked for accuracy but to also manage the 
posting of over 600,000 statements to their customers. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Miss S and LBS on 28 October 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Theres no dispute here that Miss S changed her address or that a letter 
subsequently went to her previous address. In terms of the timeline of events here, it 
appears LBS collated all information for annual statements  which included Miss Ss 
 at the start of September 2020. Miss S then attended a branch on 23 October and 
changed her address. 
The annual statement which had been prepared in advance was then sent to Miss 
Ss previous address at the start of November.  
LBS say they have a two-month gap for bulk mailing to ensure thorough checks can 
be done on the file due to the size and complexity of the mailing. Once the checks 
are done the data is sent to the Mailing House where they go through the proofing 
process. This is where they check all data is pulling through as expected, the logic for 
the mailing is correct and the content matches what they have supplied. Once they 
are ready, they then have a mailing schedule for these and, in this case, over 
500,000 letters were sent over a two-week period. 
LBS say Miss S changed her address only two weeks prior to the mailing going out, 
so even if they had collated the data four weeks before at the beginning of October, 
then the mailing would still have gone to the old address because it wasnt updated 
until 23 October. 
LBS say, based on the date which Miss S changed her address, the only way they 
couldve avoided the letter going to her old address wouldve been for the mailing to 
go out after 23 October. They say, that would only give them two weeks in which to 
organise and process the mailing, which they say isnt realistic, and would be putting 
their members data at risk in sending out a mailing so late.
Taking this all into account, while its unfortunate Miss Ss annual statement was sent 
to her previous address, I cant say there has been an error here by LBS. We cant 
tell a business what their policy on mailing annual statements should be, but we can 
look to see whether they have applied a policy fairly. LBS say the reason they have a 
two-month timeframe between collating the data and sending out the annual 
statements is to carry out checks. LBS have described, at a high level, what those 
checks are and, although address verification isnt one of those checks, I think the 
checks they do carry out are important. So, I cant say LBS have applied their policy 
unfairly here as its not unreasonable for them to have in place robust measures to 
ensure data accuracy.    
I think its foreseeable though that, during a bulk mailing process, a customer might 
change their address details. So, while I can understand how a letter may then 
inadvertently be sent to a previous address, I think its important to look at what steps 
a business takes to alert customers to this. LBS have provided a copy of their policy 
document which they say branch staff are required to follow when changing a 
customers address in branch. Under a heading Rules it says, Inform the customer 
when changing their address, that if they are changing their address during any 
pending mailings such as annual savings statement, the statements will be sent to 
their old address. 
Ive looked at system notes provided by LBS and this doesnt specifically note the 
above explanation was given to Miss S. LBS say the staff member who attended to 
Miss S didnt have to add any notes about what was discussed as the address 
change form on the system shows the purpose of Miss Ss visit was to change her 
address. Ive looked at the policy document and this sets out steps a staff member 
should take and, looking at the information provided by LBS, it looks like the staff 
member has followed other parts of the process  this includes completing a change 
of address form, arranging for Miss S to sign it, checking ID and updating the system. 
So, on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not, the staff member 
will also have followed the policy by giving Miss S the explanation about pending 
mailing being sent to her previous address. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss S and also sorry to hear about the impact this event 
had on her. But, I cant say LBS have acted unreasonably in how they have applied 
their policy.   
So, subject to any further comments from Miss S or LBS, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, LBS havent responded. Miss S has responded to say 
LBS have breached her personal data by sending her account balance to a third party. In 
relation to LBSs policy which requires staff to inform customers, wanting to change their 
address, about the position with pending mailings, Miss S says staff dont follow this 
process. She says, had she been told about this then no complaint wouldve been made by 
her and she wouldve taken appropriate steps like mail redirection. Miss S says the branch 
staff asked her for ID and proof of her address but that was because the system prompted 
them to do so. But, she says there was nothing to prompt the branch staff to inform Miss S 
about the pending mailings. 
Miss S says, when she became aware her statement had been sent to her previous address, 
she called LBS and spoke with a senior staff member who could only apologise on behalf of the staff member who dealt with her in branch. Miss S says LBS know that branch staff dont 
follow the correct process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above. 
In relation to Miss Ss comments, I agree her statement was sent to her previous address 
and I acknowledge the upset and worry this caused. But, for me to uphold the complaint, I 
need to determine that LBS have made an error here. I note Miss Ss point about what steps 
the branch staff took when she attended and Ive also taken into account what prompts she 
says appeared. Ive looked at the facts and then Ive made a judgement call based on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is more likely to have happened than not.    
Miss S agrees the branch staff asked for her ID and proof of address. I can see both of these 
steps are set out in LBSs policy. In addition to this, theres also a requirement for a change 
of address form to be completed  and I can see LBS have also taken that step. So, given 
the steps the member of staff took when changing Miss Ss address, I think its more likely 
than not, they will also have informed Miss S about the pending mailings.
I acknowledge Miss Ss point about a senior staff member apologising on behalf of the 
branch staff, but I dont think this is an admission of LBS having made an error. In fact, even 
in their final response to Miss Ss complaint, LBS apologise for Miss S being disappointed 
with their service, yet they dont uphold her complaint. Ive based my decision on information 
provided by both parties and what I think is more likely to have happened than not. And, Im 
sorry to disappoint Miss S but I believe its more likely than not LBS followed their policy 
which includes explaining the position on pending mailings.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman