DRN-4094918
The complaint
Miss A complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In October 2022, Miss A applied for a job online which required her to pay a fee to obtain 
orders, on the premise that after submitting the order she would be refunded the fee and 
receive a commission. Miss A thought she was working for a large online retailer, but she 
was actually the victim of a scam.
 
Miss A made an initial payment of £40, completed an order, and received a payment back to 
her Wise account of £76.62. The next day she made two payments totalling just under £290 
and received back £381.50 for the orders she had submitted. The scammer returned these 
funds to Miss A to convince her that the job was genuine and to encourage her to buy more 
orders.
Miss A made three more payments for just under £900 in total, then four days later made 
another two payments of £1,938 and £3,102.
When Miss A was unable to withdraw her commission, she realised shed been the victim of 
a scam and reported it to Wise.
Wise investigated Miss As fraud claim but declined to refund her. Wise said the payments 
Miss A made werent unusual as they had no prior account use to compare them to. Wise 
said that the first time Miss A tried to make the payment of £1,938, they held the payment 
while they completed regulatory checks, however Miss A had cancelled the payment and 
later set up a new payment with the same details. Wise werent able to recover any of     
Miss As funds, saying theyd left the accounts by time she reported the scam.
Miss A wasnt happy with Wises response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think that 
Wise shouldve identified that Miss A was at risk of financial harm based on the payments 
she made. 
Miss A disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising the following points:
She says Wise told her they would block the beneficiary accounts (which were also 
held with Wise) and would recover her funds. 
When she called to report the fraud, Wise said that funds remained in the beneficiary 
accounts, so Wise couldve recovered her money.
Miss A is also unhappy that it took Wise three weeks to give her an answer in relation 
to her fraud claim. 
Miss A asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but having carefully considered everything, Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator and wont be asking Wise to refund her. Ill explain why.
Im not satisfied based on the size of the payments Miss A made, the lack of previous 
account use and the frequency of the payments, that Wise shouldve identified that Miss A 
was potentially the victim of a scam. 
While the first six payments were all made on the same day, they were for very low amounts 
with the largest being only £584 and all of the payments together totalled less than £1,200. 
There was then a gap of four days before Miss A made the next two payments, being £1,938 
and £3,102. Also, the last payment for £3,102 was made to a new payee with a different 
name than the previous payments.
 
Wise has told us that they presented Miss A with a warning when she made the payment of 
£584. The warning was tailored to investment scams, as Miss A selected the payment 
purpose as investment. In these circumstances, Im not persuaded that Wise were required 
to provide a warning, so Im satisfied that theyve acted appropriately with regards to this 
payment. 
Im aware that Wise paused the payment that Miss A made of £1,938 to complete regulatory 
checks, however Miss A cancelled the payment and set up a new payment. Even if I agreed 
that Wise shouldve intervened at this point, I would only expect them to provide Miss A with 
a generic warning which I think is unlikely to have uncovered the scam or convinced Miss A 
that she shouldnt proceed with making the payment. In this case, the scammer had allowed 
Miss A to withdraw some of her commission, which had reassured Miss A that the 
arrangement was legitimate. So, I think its more likely that not she wouldve continued with 
making this payment, as well as the final payment of £3,102. And, with the final payment, Im 
still not persuaded that Wise shouldve intervened. While it was Miss As second payment for 
that day, it was to a new payee and still isnt so large or out of character that I think Wise 
shouldve identified that Miss A mayve been at risk of financial harm. Based on this, I think 
Wise acted reasonably and I cant fairly ask them to refund Miss A.
I appreciate that Miss A has lost over £6,000 in total, which is a significant amount of money 
for her. However, a balance has to be struck between Wise identifying payments which 
could be fraudulent and then responding appropriately to their concerns and ensuring 
minimal disruption to legitimate payments.
 
Could Wise have recovered Miss As funds?
Miss A says that when she called Wise to report the scam, she was told funds remained in 
the beneficiary account and that Wise would recover her funds. However, having listened to 
the call Miss A had when she reported the fraud, I cant agree that she was told this. 
Miss A asked whether Wise would be able to recover her funds several different times during 
that call and was told that theyd try to recover the funds, that it was possible, but that they 
dont guarantee it. Wise also told Miss A they couldnt tell her how much money was in the 
beneficiary accounts or any details relating to those accounts. Miss A was told her fraud 
claim would be forwarded to a specialist team who would investigate the situation and, if it 
turned out to be a scam, take the necessary action. Miss A was asked to provide information relating to the scam, including any screen shots or messages she had with the scammer, 
which she later sent to Wise. 
From what Ive seen the funds were removed from the Wise beneficiary accounts almost 
immediately after they were received, so by the time Miss A reported the scam  no funds 
were recoverable. Im not satisfied that Wise told Miss A that they would recover her funds, 
rather they told her they would attempt to recover them. Also, I cant agree that Miss A was 
told the funds were still in the beneficiary accounts during her call. So, I cant fairly say that 
Wise couldve recovered Miss As funds.
The level of customer service Miss A received
Miss A is also unhappy with how long it took Wise to investigate her fraud claim and provide 
her with an answer. From what Ive seen, Wise contacted Miss A on 4 November advising 
they had finished looking into her claim. This email wasnt as clear as it couldve been, as it 
didnt directly say that Miss A wouldnt be getting her funds back. However, it does suggest 
that Miss A contact the local authorities as a next step in trying to recover her funds. This 
means that Wise responded within eight days of Miss A raising her fraud claim.
 
Following this, there were several emails between Miss A and Wise. Miss A told Wise that 
she wasnt happy with their response to her claim, so they raised a complaint to look into her 
concerns, which they confirmed to Miss A on 9 November  saying they would respond 
within 15 working days. On 24 November, Wise issued their final response which was within 
the 15 working days theyd quoted. Based on this, I cant fairly say Wise have done anything 
wrong or make an award for poor customer service.
Im really sorry to disappoint Miss A, but I cant fairly ask Wise to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Wise Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman