DRN-3769593
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) have treated her unfairly in 
relation to a claim made under her Protect Plus Appliance policy which covered her cooker.
Any reference to Mrs K, D&G or Company A includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In November 2020 Mrs K bought a cooker from Company A. Alongside this she 
purchased accidental damage cover from D&G.
Mrs K reported a fault with the cooker to D&G around October 2021, it sent an 
engineer to attend. They returned to replace parts around six weeks later, and D&G 
was told further parts would still be needed so a replacement would be required.
Around three months after in March 2022, within a final response letter, D&G told Mrs 
K the matter would fall to Company A to resolve under its warranty as the damage 
wasnt accidental and the cooker had been delivered to her in faulty condition. But it 
apologised for any stress and inconvenience the process had caused.
Mrs K complained. She says she went through a back and forth with both Company 
A, and D&G who referred her to the opposing company, disagreeing about the cause 
of damage.
Company A has since replaced the cooker, and awarded Mrs K £200 compensation 
for mistakes it made. D&G has said given the cooker was replaced and Mrs K has 
been compensated, theres no more it should be required to do. And that Mrs K 
wouldve been aware the damage wouldve always fallen to Company A, not D&G.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint, directing D&G 
to award Mrs K £100 in compensation. She said D&G was obligated to consider the 
claim and provide an outcome promptly, which here it hadnt done as it couldve 
provided its position on the claim around three months earlier than it did. 
Mrs K accepted the view, but D&G didnt. D&G said while there were shortfalls in 
service it felt the compensation Mrs K had received from Company A was sufficient.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The facts of this complaint are largely not in dispute. Mrs Ks cooker was faulty, and 
all parties now appear in agreement the liability sits with Company A and seemingly 
always should have. So, I dont need to consider whether or not Mrs Ks claim was 
declined fairly as this matter is already resolved.
What I need to consider is whether D&G met its obligations to handle Mrs Ks claim 
fairly and promptly.
D&G has apologised for any distress and inconvenience it may have caused and 
acknowledges shortfalls in its service. And as our Investigator has outlined, it does 
appear D&G couldve explained its position on her claim at least several months 
earlier than it did.
D&G seemingly has agreed Mrs K should be compensated for mistakes but says a 
payment of this nature from Company A should be considered sufficient. But the 
complaint Ive been asked to consider is against D&G not Company A. 
So, for the same reasons I wouldnt consider it fair to hold D&G accountable for 
Company As mistakes or failings, I dont consider Company As efforts to put things 
right is relevant when considering whether D&G has met its own obligations.
Simply, regardless of what Company A did or should have done, D&G should have 
provided a better service when handling the claim.
For these reasons, Im directing D&G to pay £100 to Mrs K for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her during this claim as Im not persuaded it has kept 
her updated on the matter or explained things as promptly as it shouldve.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
must pay Mrs K £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman