DRN-4301023
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on a 
commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should not be upheld. I do so for the following reasons.
Mr H confirmed he was involved in an incident, and a claim for costs was received 
from a third party, so it is correct that while the claim was being investigated this was 
recorded against his policy as a fault claim. And as would usually happen, this then 
had an impact on his no claims discount (NCD) entitlement and it factored into the 
cost of his premium. So, I dont think Advantage did anything wrong in recording the 
claim like this while it was still being investigated. 
Advantage has admitted an error in settling the claim in February 2023 and making a 
payment to the third party. It confirms it had sufficient information to challenge the 
costs that were being claimed but did not do so. In recognition of this error, in April 
2023 it changed the claim to non fault, notification only and reinstated Mr Hs NCD 
entitlement. This reduced the premium Mr H needed to pay and he received a refund. 
I understand Mr H found the claims process stressful, unfortunately claims can go on 
for quite a long period of time especially where there is a dispute. When considering 
the level of compensation to award I have to consider what Advantage did wrong 
here, which was to close the claim in February 2023. Mr H did challenge this, which I 
recognise would have been stressful, however I have to consider whether what 
Advantage did to put right its error is sufficient.
Had Advantage not settled the claim in February, the claim would still have been 
registered as a fault claim, which as I have explained above is correct. So this would 
have continued to have an impact on Mr Hs NCD and premiums until the matter was 
resolved. So the fact it took two months for Advantage to recognise its error and 
change this to non fault, notification only has little impact.  Mr Hs premiums were 
recalculated, as is normal practice when a claim is closed, and in this case, he 
received a refund of premium.
As Mr H admitted an incident took place, there would always have been a record of 
this placed on the claims file. So even if the third party hadnt claimed and this 
situation had not occurred, the least Mr H would have had recorded was a 
notification only claim. So, I think Advantage has acted reasonably here in recording 
this claim as such.
Advantage awarded Mr H £100 compensation which overall I think is fair. As I have 
explained above, the timeframe between Advantage making an error and putting 
things right was relatively short. And I think it more likely than not the vast amount of 
Mr Hs frustration came from the circumstances of the underlying claim itself. 
The fact Advantage paid out to a third party here has no impact on Mr H. It is not 
registered against his claims record and as such, it is simply a commercial loss to 
Advantage due to its own error. I certainly wouldnt expect Advantage to increase the 
compensation amount to Mr H just because it incorrectly paid out more than that 
amount to a third party.
For the reasons above I do not uphold this complaint. I think Advantage has recognised the 
error it made and has made fair and reasonable steps to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman