DRN-3486105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI)s decision not to allow them to 
appoint their own solicitor to pursue a claim against their neighbour for restricting access to 
their driveway. They say UKI hasnt sent them the policy term its relying upon.
Mr and Mrs H add they were given incorrect advice from the legal helpline when they initially 
contacted UKI about the claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy which provides cover for the cost 
of taking or defending legal action for insurable events under the policy terms. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI. For ease, any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents.
Mr and Mrs H appointed their own solicitor assess the prospect of success in taking 
their neighbour to court. The solicitor found the claim did have prospects.
In February 2021, Mr H contacted the legal helpline through his LEI. The advisor 
agreed there may be prospect of success but explained he was concerned the case 
may fall down on proportionality. The advisor informed Mr H that UKI would not cover 
any cost incurred prior to the acceptance of their claim and suggested Mr and Mrs H 
write to their neighbour to notify them of their claim.
Mr H spoke to the helpline again in March 2021 - he was unhappy the previous call 
had implied there was no cover for this claim. The advisor agreed to put a claim 
through to the insurer who would then appoint their own solicitors to complete a 
prospect of success. 
The advisor explained UKI would usually appoint their own solicitors but if Mr and 
Mrs H had their own they wanted to use, she would include the solicitors details and 
UKI could make a decision about whether theyd agree to C using them or not. Mr H 
believes that it was during this call it was agreed it would be prudent for him to use 
the solicitor he had already instructed.
Mr and Mrs H then received a request to share the claim information with UKIs own 
panel solicitors. Unhappy with this course of action Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint 
about UKI restricting their freedom of choice to appoint their own solicitor.
UKI issued a final response not upholding the complaint.
Our Investigator looked into the matter. She found UKI had acted within the policy 
terms and conditions by appointing their own panel solicitor. She also reviewed the 
phone calls between Mr H and the legal helpline and didnt feel hed been given 
incorrect information.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our Investigators findings, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether UKI have acted fairly in asking Mr and Mrs H to use its panel 
solicitors to continue this claim. The starting point is the policy terms and conditions, which 
state:
if we accept your claim, we will choose a preferred law firm to try and settle the 
matter without having to go to court. If it is necessary to take your claim to court, or if 
there is a conflict of interests, you can choose a law firm to act as the appointed 
representative.
If you choose to use an appointed representative who isnt a preferred law firm they 
must agree to act for you in line with our terms of appointment [] We will only cover 
their costs from the date they agree to our terms of appointment. 
Its common for LEI policies to contain such a term and its consistent with the relevant laws 
applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses 
Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or 
other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or 
serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be 
free to choose that lawyer (or other person) 
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim has never been litigated  meaning proceedings have never been issued. And 
in the absence of anything to suggest that there was a conflict of interest in appointing the 
panel firm, I cant see that Mr and Mrs H had freedom to choose their own solicitor during 
this claim with UKI so far. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for UKI to have informed Mr 
and Mrs H theyd need to use its panel solicitors to continue with this claim under the policy.
Mr and Mrs H have said they have not been sent a copy of the policy terms UKI are referring 
to and so its unfair for UKI to rely on these. UKI have provided evidence to show they sent 
Mr and Mrs H renewal documents every year. These documents included a copy of the 
policy schedule and a leaflet detailing any key changes to the policy  as well as a website 
address to the latest policy document. I note however, the link was included in text about 
how to cancel the policy. Im not persuaded that including the link here was the clearest way 
in which UKI could draw Mr and Mrs H attention to the policy document.
However, even if this had been clearer, I must consider whether it would have made a 
difference. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy to have found out that they cant use their own 
solicitors, but ultimately, they werent entitled to do so under the terms of the policy. As 
explained above, the term in question is not unusual for such policies, so even if they had a 
policy with another insurer, they wouldnt have been able to use their own solicitor at the 
stage their claim was at. So, whilst I acknowledge their strength of feeling, Im not persuaded 
theyve been prejudiced by not having been sent the full policy document. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs H say they were given incorrect advice when they spoke to the legal 
helpline. They say it was implied they could use their own solicitor and that it would be 
prudent to do so. It is important to explain that solicitors are regulated by a separate body, 
the Solicitors Regulation Authority, and not the Financial Conduct Authority. This means our 
service isnt able to comment directly on the conduct of solicitors. Our services jurisdiction 
covers the actions of the insurer - but if a solicitors advice is clearly based on mistakes and 
factual inaccuracies we may ask the insurer to disregard that advice. Ive listened to the 
phone calls between Mr H and the legal helpline and Ive not heard anything to suggest they gave advice based on mistakes or factual inaccuracies. Nor, do I agree the advisor informed 
Mr H he could and should use his own solicitor.
I know my decision will dissapoint Mr and Mrs H but I hope for they understand, for the 
reasons set out above, why I havent upheld it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman