DRN-3505146
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under the UKs statutory investors compensation scheme following the 
failure of a company he had invested in. During the claim he communicated with his case 
handler at the scheme. And, following the success of his claim, this communication 
continued to the point where Mr S felt he was in a romantic relationship with the case 
handler.
Around a week after his claim was successful, the case handler told Mr S she was struggling 
with her overdraft. She asked him to pay her around £1,800 and said shed pay him back the 
following month. Mr S sent the case handler the money, which she paid back in a number of 
instalments over the following three months.
Around five months later, the case handler then told Mr S she needed a loan of £1,400 but 
would pay him back in a couple of weeks. Mr S again sent the money and the case handler 
paid back around £1,000 of this over the next couple of months.
The case handler then told Mr S she needed a further £7,000 to help with a house purchase, 
but that she would pay him back in a few days. Mr S sent the money to the case handler but 
then became suspicious when she didnt pay him back within those few days. The case 
handler repeatedly told him shed pay him back soon, and did pay back £850 around two 
months later, but the remaining amount Mr S sent has never been paid back.
Mr S complained to HSBC that hed been the victim of a scam and asked that he be 
refunded. But HSBC said it didnt consider this to be a scam as Mr S had a relationship with 
the case handler and had previously lent her money and been repaid. It said it considered 
the matter to be a civil dispute between Mr S and the case handler. Mr S wasnt satisfied 
with HSBCs response, so referred his complaint to our service.
I sent Mr S and HSBC a provisional decision on 26 April 2022 setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mr S has sent us a significant amount of evidence on this case, including copies of some of 
his communication with the case handler. And I can assure him I have looked at and 
considered all this evidence.
From looking at the evidence on this case, I also accept what he says about the case 
handler misleading him into thinking they were in a romantic relationship. The content of the 
messages the case handler sent him, the circumstances around how their relationship 
began, the significant age difference between the two of them and the fact that they never 
met in person over the more than 12 months they were communicating all mean I think its 
likely the case handler was misleading him and that this wasnt a true romantic relationship.
But this doesnt mean that the payments themselves were a scam.
Mr S was asked to lend money to someone on the understanding that they would pay him 
back. This is what he agreed to and it appears that this is what was actually happening. It 
doesnt appear that Mr S was deceived or mislead about the reason he was sending money, 
about where his money was going to or about any product or service he was paying for.
The case handler also did pay him back, in full for the first payment he sent and in part for 
the second and third payments. There were significant periods of time between each of the 
requests for him to lend her money. And the case handler kept communicating with him after 
each of the payments was made and made repayments to him after the third payment was 
sent  which I wouldnt expect to see if her intention had always been to just take his money.
So I dont think the evidence suggests that the case handler set out from the beginning to 
scam Mr S out of his money. I think its more likely that she wanted him to loan her money 
but that she did intend to pay it back to him. And as this is what Mr S agreed to do, I think 
HSBC has acted reasonably in not treating these payments as part of a scam.
While the case handler has not paid Mr S back in full, as she said she would, I think this is a 
civil dispute between the two of them  which Mr S should pursue directly with the case 
handler, if he chooses to do so. And so I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to 
refund the payments Mr S made.
I sympathise with the position Mr S has found himself in and I appreciate that my decision 
will likely come as a disappointment to him. But I hope he understands the reasons why Ive 
come to this decision and why I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC liable for the losses 
he suffered.
I said Id consider anything further Mr S and HSBC sent in following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr S nor HSBC have sent in any further information or evidence following my 
provisional decision. And so I still think the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision 
are correct, and for the same reasons.
I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the payments Mr S made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman