DRN-1247656
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened 
Mr G had problems with his central heating system and made a claim under his home 
emergency policy. Admiral sent a few engineers over a few days in order to get to the 
bottom of the issue. Although Mr G was left with a working boiler and central heating system 
at one point, he was ultimately left with a problem that appeared to stem from his underfloor 
heating.
Mr G said that one of the attending engineers got an electric shock from a power surge. And 
that a second engineer was critical of this engineers work. 
Mr G was left with his central heating not working and although Admirals approved 
engineers did re-attend, it said that the problems related to the wiring linked to the underfloor 
heating. As such, Admiral didnt feel that it was responsible. 
So Mr G complained to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld 
his complaint. She was of the view that there was insufficient evidence to show that 
Admirals engineer, that got an electric shock, didnt cause the problem with the wiring to the 
underfloor heating. So, she asked it to re-attend and fix the problem and to reduce the 
claims allowed against Mr Gs policy.
Admiral has failed to respond so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What I've decided 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive also asked Admiral to comment on the investigators view and outlined that I think Mr G 
should be paid compensation for the considerable inconvenience he has faced. But again 
Admiral has failed to respond which is disappointing and makes the case more difficult to 
decide, as I have to go solely on the information available and without Admirals thoughts.
But Admiral appears to have agreed that Mr Gs underfloor heating wiring was most likely 
impacted upon by its appointed engineer, when he caused the power surge and got an 
electric shock. However, it changed its position when the appointed company disputed this. 
Admiral agreed at some point the wiring had blown but said, after speaking to the Gas 
Compliance Manager, that the damage was caused by a domino effect stemming from faulty 
wiring. It said that this can cause the fuse to blow. But Admiral hasnt provided any further 
evidence to support its position or, surprisingly, re-attended and undertaken an independent 
review. So, I have to focus on the evidence that I have been provided with. And although I cant be 
sure what caused the problem with the wiring there does seem to have been a problem with 
the level of work of one of the engineers. I say this as the second engineer clearly identified 
issues with the previous engineers work and told Mr G that he would escalate this to his 
manager. Furthermore, the manager acknowledged some difficulties with the workmanship 
and said that he would remove the engineer from front line duties and ensure some 
retraining took place. 
I think that this is the strongest suggestion that things werent right, and on balance, it seems 
to me that there was a power surge which caused a problem with the underfloor heating. I 
havent been provided with anything to suggest that Mr G had a problem with the underfloor 
heating and wiring before Admirals attendance or that faulty wiring caused the problem. As 
such, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Admiral to re-attend and fix the faulty wiring. And I agree that the second claim that Mr G 
had to use to get Admiral to re-attend should be wiped from his claim history.
Finally, I think this has all caused Mr G a fair amount of stress and inconvenience. He has 
been left without the use of his underfloor heating throughout the winter months, so I think he 
should be awarded £500 compensation. I have asked Admiral for its response to this 
alongside the investigators view and again it hasnt responded. But I think that this level of 
compensation is appropriate given that Mr G has been without heating for a significant 
period of time, including during some very cold spells. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint and I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to organise the repair of the underfloor wiring and to only 
record one claim from the time it attended as opposed to two. And to pay £500 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before  17 February 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman