DRN-3378526
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) cancelled his motor insurance policy because he 
didnt provide proof of his employment.
My references to QIC include their agents.
What happened
On 11 August 2021 Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with QIC via a price comparison 
website. The welcome email sent on the same day, explained that he might be asked to 
provide verification documents. It also contained a warning that a lack of response could 
result in the policy being cancelled.
On 26th August 2021 QIC sent Mr S an email requesting proof of his employment, no claims 
discount, and a copy of his driving licence. This email asked him to respond by 12 
September 2021 and said they'd need to start the cancellation process if they didnt hear 
from him by then.
As QIC didnt receive a response from Mr S, they tried to call him on 14 September 2021 
and sent him a further email. This said they intended on cancelling the policy on 21 
September 2021 as they hadnt received the requested information.
On 20 September 2021, Mr S provided proof of his no claims discount and a copy of his 
driving licence. He also talked to an adviser and they explained he would need to pay an 
additional premium as he hadnt declared a motor conviction. Mr S was initially upset by this 
as he said the conviction wasnt recent, but later accepted he should have declared it. The 
adviser then explained that the last thing they needed was his proof of employment. Mr S 
said he couldnt provide a payslip as he was currently taking annual leave and he would 
need to access his work computer. The adviser then suggested that he ask his manager for 
an email to confirm his employment instead. Mr S said he couldnt do that today and he 
knew this meant QIC would cancel his policy, despite it not being what he wanted. The call 
ended by Mr S saying he would refer the matter to this service.
On 24 September 2021, QIC sent Mr S confirmation that his policy had been cancelled with 
effect from 21 September 2021. They also explained that a £60 cancellation fee had been 
applied and hed need to pay a small outstanding balance.
Mr S then complained to QIC and said it wasnt fair his policy had been cancelled and a fee  
applied. He also said they should have sent him letters as he was more likely to have seen 
these instead of emails. In response, QIC said theyd acted fairly by sending emails, 
cancelling the policy, and applying the fee. They said the cancellation happened as Mr S 
hadnt provided proof of his employment. They also said hed neglected to declare a motor 
conviction. As a gesture of goodwill, they agreed to waive the outstanding balance, but they 
refused to do anything more.
As part of their submissions, QIC explained to our service that in addition to being concerned 
Mr S hadnt declared a motor conviction, their searches indicated he may not have shared 
correct information about his employment. So, it was important they received the evidence 
they requested, and they werent prepared to continue the policy without it. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr S had been given a 
fair opportunity to provide the requested information but didnt do so. She also said it was 
reasonable for QIC to raise their concern about the undeclared motor conviction as he hadnt 
provided correct information.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. When asked why, he said he hadnt been 
treated fairly and he couldnt have requested an email from his manager as they were also 
taking annual leave at the time.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
Im satisfied QIC acted reasonably by asking Mr S to provide verification documents 
as like all insurers, they offer policies based on a risk assessment. If a policy holder 
gave incorrect information when they applied for a policy, this could mean it wouldnt 
have been offered on the same terms or at all. So, its reasonable for an insurer to 
cancel a policy, as they did here, if requested verification documents arent supplied.
Based on the dates of QICs requests, Im satisfied they gave Mr S a fair amount of 
time to provide the requested information. They also warned him that a lack of 
response would result in the cancellation of his policy. So, Mr S should reasonably 
have been aware of the importance of providing the requested information and the 
consequences of not doing so. 
Im also satisfied QIC acted fairly by corresponding with Mr S by email. As the terms 
and conditions say cancellation notices would be provided in this way. Mr S also 
gave his preferred email address when he applied for the policy and received his 
welcome letter via this method. So, I think he should reasonably have expected to 
receive emails from QIC instead of letters. QIC have also said they attempted to 
contact Mr S by telephone, but they were unable to leave a message.
Mr S has said he wouldnt have been able to provide an email from his manager as 
they were also taking annual leave. This is a reasonable explanation, but 
unfortunately, he didnt share it with the adviser during the call. If hed done so, its 
possible QIC may have agreed a different way forward instead of cancelling the 
policy. Mr S may also have been able to obtain the requested information, if hed 
been more proactive in response to QICs emails. 
Im also satisfied QIC acted fairly by informing Mr S they would need to take his 
undisclosed motor conviction into consideration, even if hed provided his proof of 
employment. As the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. And if a 
consumer fails to do this, the insurer can apply certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. Im 
satisfied this was a relevant consideration here. As Mr S was asked a clear and specific question about any motor convictions and he didnt answer it correctly. 
I should stress, however, that the reason Mr Ss policy was cancelled was because 
he didnt provide his proof of employment, and he indicated that he wasnt prepared 
to take steps to do so. Under the circumstances, Im satisfied this was fair. As it 
meant QIC couldnt check if hed provided correct information about his employment 
or fairly assess the risk associated with the policy.
I dont think its unreasonable QIC applied a £60 cancellation fee as the policy was 
cancelled after the cooling off period had ended. This fee is stated in the policy terms 
and applies regardless of who cancelled it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman