DRN-2887597
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc failed to action a request to reinvest his funds 
following the maturity of an ISA. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr G opened a two-year fixed rate ISA. He says that when the account expired in 
2019, he visited a Santander branch and asked for the funds to be reinvested into a like for 
like ISA account. He says he was told his had been completed and the new ISA had an 
interest rate of 1.3%. 
Mr G has recently found out his funds werent reinvested, but instead moved over to an ISA 
saver with a much lower interest rate. He complains that Santander failed to action his 
request. And he wants it to pay the interest hes missed out on during this time.
Santander says it wrote to Mr G in 2019 to let him know the ISA was due to expire and that it 
would convert to an ISA saver. It explained Mr G could upgrade the account and gave 
details on how to do so. But Santander says it has no records of Mr G making such a 
request, so the funds were moved into an ISA saver. It says the correspondence sent to Mr 
G since that time reflected what account he held.
Mr G brought a complaint to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold it. He wasnt 
satisfied that Mr G had upgraded his account due to the insufficient evidence. And he felt the 
correspondence from Santander was enough for Mr G to realise the type of account he had.
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the letter Santander sent Mr G in 2019 which explained 
that the ISA would mature into an ISA saver. It said Mr G could change it to a different ISA 
product and to find out more about how to do this, he could look online, call the number on 
the letter or visit a branch. 
Santanders records show Mr G had a telephone appointment with a relationship manager 
the day after the date on this letter. Theres no call recording of the conversation available, 
only the relationship managers recollection of what was said. They recall that Mr G was told 
the upgrade couldnt be completed on the call and he was told to visit a branch. 
Mr G says he visited a branch approximately six weeks later and made the request. He 
recalls being told the upgrade had been completed. But Santander have no record of Mr G 
visiting the branch in question  or any other branch  on or around the date hes given. Ive 
looked through all Santanders contact notes and I cant locate any record of this either. 
Santander say that had Mr Gs ISA account been accessed by a branch, there would be an 
audit trial of this on its systems. Furthermore, Santander say that had the account been 
upgraded, Mr G wouldve been provided with a new key facts document and the relevant 
account terms and conditions. But theres no record of these being sent. 
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly that he attended a branch and requested his account 
be upgraded. While Ive no reason to dispute Mr Gs recollection of the events, I simply dont 
have any evidence to support the branch visit or the upgrade of the ISA. I can also see that 
Mr G has been sent account statements and correspondence which clearly state what type 
of account he held  an ISA saver  and the interest rate being applied. This was the 
opportunity for Mr G to notice that his instructions hadnt been completed correctly. 
I must consider the evidence to determine what I think happened  or what is most likely to 
have happened. I think its most likely that had Mr G made such a request and hed been led 
to believe it had been actioned  even if it wasnt  there would be an audit trail showing 
someone had accessed his account. I also think he wouldve been sent some documentation 
following the upgrade to reflect the changes made. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest his account was accessed by a branch or upgraded to a 
higher interest rate product. Mr G has been unable to provide any proof of his visit or any 
paperwork from Santander to indicate that a change was made on his account. And without 
any evidence to support his version of events, Im not persuaded that Santander should do 
anything to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman