DRN-2100076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Scottish Equitable Plc turned down Mrs Bs critical illness 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint, decreasing term life and critical illness (CIC) policy in October 
2011 with Scottish Equitable. The policy was for a ten-year period and the initial sum 
assured was just under £65,000. The policy was taken out through an Independent Financial 
Advisor (IFA).
When applying for the policy Mrs B disclosed that she suffered from Rheumatoid Arthritis 
(RA). Scottish Equitable then applied an RA exclusion to the CIC part of the policy, because 
RA was one of the listed critical illnesses.  
Mrs B was, unfortunately, diagnosed with RA in July 2018 and was initially unable to work for 
seven months. She submitted a claim to Scottish Equitable in July 2019, which was turned 
down because of the RA exclusion. 
Mrs B complained to Scottish Equitable and said she was not aware of the RA exclusion and 
that she made a mistake when applying for the policy back in 2011. She said at that time she 
suffered from Osteoarthritis (OA) and thought she had disclosed this, but mistakenly said 
she suffered from RA. 
Scottish Equitable responded to Mrs Bs complaint in February 2019. It said the medication 
Mrs B disclosed in 2011, hydroxychloroquine, was a disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
and so even if she had OA in 2011, it wasnt unreasonable for its underwriters to add the RA 
exclusion to her policy. It said although this medication could be used to treat OA, being 
prescribed it suggested there was a greater risk of Mrs B getting RA in the future. It said 
Mrs Bs diagnosis in 2018 had proved this theory. 
Scottish Equitable also said the RA exclusion was on Mrs Bs acceptance terms and policy 
schedule and clearly explained Scottish Equitable would not consider a claim for RA. It said 
Mrs Bs IFA confirmed she was happy to go ahead on this basis in 2011. Scottish Equitable 
also said that even without the exclusion, it wasnt in a position to consider a claim for Mrs B 
as her treatment was ongoing and there were no nodules present, so it was too early to 
claim. It said this was irrelevant because of the exclusion, but it wanted to make Mrs B 
aware. 
Mrs B remained unhappy and so complained to this service. She said she disclosed an 
underactive thyroid and had arthritis in her knee in 2009. She said she feels shes being 
penalised for making a mistake and doesnt think Scottish Equitable looked at her medical 
notes, which confirm that her diagnosis of RA was made in 2018. Mrs B said RA is an 
autoimmune condition, while OA is wear and tear on joints and so they are two different 
diseases. 
When our investigator contacted Scottish Equitable it said if Mrs B had told it she had OA in 
2011 it would not have changed its underwriting decision to apply the exclusion. It said it 
would have made its decision taking into account the medication Mrs B was being 
prescribed. For this medication, it said its underwriters would have followed the RA 
guidance, which said if RA was an insured condition under the policy, it should either 
exclude the condition or decline to offer a policy. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. She said Mrs B provided medical information to 
show she was diagnosed with OA prior to taking out the policy and only diagnosed with RA 
in 2018. Having checked the underwriting criteria, our investigator didnt agree that the 
underwriting criteria supported Scottish Equitables decision to apply an exclusion for RA, 
based on a disclosure of OA and that Mrs B was being prescribed hydroxychloroquine.
 
Scottish Equitable did not agree with the outcome and so this has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
My understanding of Mrs Bs complaint is that when she took out the joint policy in 2011 she 
mistakenly ticked a box indicating she had been diagnosed with and was being treated for 
RA, when in fact this was not the case. She said the illness she had been diagnosed with 
was OA. It wasnt until she later made a claim under the policy in 2019 that she realised 
shed made an error in 2011.
 
Mrs B said she also only realised in 2019 that her error had led to Scottish Equitable 
excluding RA from her CIC policy. Mrs B has brought the complaint to this service as she 
said she has only recently been diagnosed with RA and wants Scottish Equitable to consider 
her claim for RA, as she doesnt think it would have excluded RA if she had correctly 
disclosed she was suffering from OA. 
For its part, Scottish Equitable has said that even if Mrs B had correctly disclosed she was 
suffering from OA in 2011, it would still have applied an RA exclusion to her policy. And it 
said this is because Mrs B was taking medication that is used to treat RA  albeit that it can 
also be used to treat OA  and so it wasnt unreasonable for its underwriters to apply the RA 
exclusion to her policy. It said the fact Mrs B was taking the medication suggests she was 
more at risk of getting RA in the future. 
I first of all looked at whether I think it would be fair to ask Scottish Equitable to consider 
amending the policy now, given that Mrs B had the opportunity to check the policy details in 
2011, and that, arguably, she should have noticed sooner that there was an RA exclusion on 
her policy. But I think it is fair to ask Scottish Equitable to do this. Ill explain why.
If Mrs B had carelessly, recklessly or deliberately disclosed incorrect information that led to 
Scottish Equitable offering her a policy on more favourable terms than it would otherwise 
have offered, then we would quite rightly be looking at what steps Scottish Equitable are 
allowed to take to remedy that. But the situation here is that Mrs B appears to have 
mistakenly disclosed incorrect information that led to her being excluded from claiming for 
RA, so shes been provided with a policy on less favourable terms than she might otherwise 
have been offered. Given the circumstances of this particular complaint, I think a fair and 
reasonable approach here is to deal with Mrs Bs error at the application stage in much the 
same way we would if the incorrect disclosure had potentially placed Scottish Equitable at a disadvantage. So Ive looked at what would most likely have happened if Mrs B had correctly 
told Scottish Equitable in 2011 that she was suffering from OA.
 
Ive seen the underwriting guidance in relation to RA that was provided by Scottish Equitable 
and, based on this and the fact that Mrs B said she was suffering from RA back in 2011, I 
think Scottish Equitable acted fairly when it applied the RA exclusion to the policy in 2011. 
So the question now is whether it should remove the exclusion. Ive looked at whether the 
medical information shows when Mrs B was diagnosed with both RA and OA. 
Ive seen a letter from Mrs Bs Consultant Rheumatologist, dated February 2019, that lists 
Mrs Bs diagnosis as Sero positive rheumatoid arthritis July 2018. The letter also mentions 
Osteoarthritis with previous inflammatory component and one of the knee surgeries 
undergone by Mrs B in 2009. Another letter was provided by Mrs Bs Consultant 
Rheumatologist in June 2020, in response to a number of questions posed by our 
investigator. The Consultant Rheumatologist said it was felt your condition was 
osteoarthritis with previous inflammatory component just involving the knee up to 2018. 
Given what Mrs Bs Consultant Rheumatologist has said, Im satisfied Mrs B wasnt 
diagnosed with RA until 2018 and had been diagnosed as suffering from OA when she 
applied for the policy in 2011. 
Scottish Equitable said the reason it hasnt removed the RA exclusion from Mrs Bs policy is 
that the medication Mrs B was taking back in 2011 to treat her OA was one that was usually 
prescribed to treat RA. It said this suggested she was at greater risk of getting RA in the 
future and so applying the RA exclusion was not unreasonable. My role here is to look at 
what steps Scottish Equitable would most likely have taken when deciding what terms to 
offer Mrs B back in 2011, if she had disclosed the correct information to it about having OA.
  
I can see that when Mrs B was initially sent the application paperwork to check that the 
information provided was correct, she told Scottish Equitable that two amendments needed 
to be made to her policy, as two medical conditions were missing. These were an 
underactive thyroid and arthritis. As a result of the arthritis disclosure, Scottish Equitable 
sent an arthritis / gout underwriting questionnaire to Mrs B in order to get more information 
about her arthritis. Mrs B answered all of the questions asked on the form and so disclosed 
she was taking hydroxychloroquine for her condition, had two knee operations in 2009 and 
that her condition had required her to take time off work. Mrs B also ticked a box that 
confirmed the exact diagnosis was RA. If Mrs B had ticked the box immediately below the 
RA box, she would have made the correct disclosure of OA. 
Ive seen the underwriting guidance provided by Scottish Equitable in relation to OA and this 
indicates that Mrs B would have been offered a policy on standard rates if she had disclosed 
OA at the application stage. The only time a rating would have been applied is if Mrs B had a 
joint replacement. But, from the medical information Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs B hadnt had 
a joint replaced as a result of OA up to 2011. Scottish Equitable told this service that it 
wouldnt have relied on the OA underwriting guidance if Mrs B had made the correct 
disclosure. It said it would have followed the underwriting guidance relevant to the 
medication Mrs B was taking. But Im not satisfied that this is the case. 
The reason I say this is that while I understand the medication Mrs B disclosed she was 
taking in 2011 was primarily used to treat RA, it was also a recognised treatment for OA at 
that time. This has been confirmed by Mrs Bs Consultant Rheumatologist in a letter dated 
from June 2020. They go on to say that it wasnt until 2018 that a study concluded the 
medication was not as effective in treating OA as was previously thought. So while it might 
now not be considered as effective as once thought, it appears to have been considered an 
effective OA medication at the time Mrs B applied for the policy. What this means is that I dont think Scottish Equitable would have simply followed the 
underwriting guidance for RA because of the medication and ignored the OA disclosure, 
given that OA is the disclosed condition, and the choice of which underwriting guidance to 
follow is usually decided by the condition disclosed. As the medication was thought, at that 
time, to be an effective treatment for OA, I think Scottish Equitable would either have 
followed the OA underwriting guidance and issued the policy on standard terms or it would 
have sought clarification from one of the medical professionals involved with Mrs B as to why 
she was taking this particular medication to treat OA. If Scottish Equitable had sought 
clarification, then it would have been told that Mrs B had originally been prescribed a 
different medication from which she had side effects, and so it was decided to change her 
medication. Im satisfied that if Scottish Equitable had known this, it would have followed the 
OA and not the RA underwriting guidance. 
I know that when Scottish Equitable responded to Mrs Bs complaint, it said that the 
medication she was taking in 2011 suggests there was more of a risk of her developing RA 
in the future and that her diagnosis in 2018 had proved this theory. But its worth noting that 
Mrs Bs current Consultant Rheumatologist told this service that RA and OA are completely 
different pathologies and OA does not develop into RA. So I havent seen anything to 
suggest that because Mrs B was taking this medication, she was considered, back in 2011, 
as being at a greater risk of developing RA.
What this means is Im satisfied if Mrs B had correctly disclosed OA in 2011, then its more 
likely than not Scottish Equitable would have offered her a policy on standard terms. So 
Mrs B would not have had the RA exclusion applied to her policy. I think Scottish Equitable 
should now remove the RA exclusion from Mrs Bs policy. 
When Scottish Equitable responded to Mrs Bs complaint, it said it was too early in her 
treatment for Mrs B to make a valid claim. But I think Scottish Equitable should now consider 
an RA claim from Mrs B in the usual way. If the claim is payable, it should consider when the 
medical evidence demonstrates the definition for RA was met and add 8% simple interest 
from that date to the date of settlement. I also think Scottish Equitable should pay £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs B has experienced in trying to have 
Scottish Equitable properly assess her claim.
  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require Scottish Equitable Plc to 
remove the Rheumatoid Arthritis exclusion from Mrs Bs policy, consider her claim in the 
usual way and pay compensation of £200 to Mrs B. If the claim is payable, Scottish 
Equitable Plc should consider when the medical evidence demonstrates the definition for RA 
was met and add 8% simple interest from that date to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman