DRN-4260868
The complaint
Miss R and Mr S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly chased them to repay their 
mortgage arrears when they were making payments in accordance with a court order.
They ask that Lloyds stops collection activity, puts aside a possession order from 2012, re-
imburses court fees and compensates them for their time, inconvenience and upset and for 
not being able to take out a new interest rate product in 2022, before rates increased.
What happened
Miss R and Mr Ss mortgage was in arrears. In early 2022 Lloyds started legal action, 
including asking the court for leave to enforce a possession order issued in 2012. Miss R 
and Mr S applied to court for a suspended possession order (SPO). They say they made 
payments in accordance with the SPO, despite which Lloyds continued to harass them to 
pay the arrears. 
Our investigator said we cant consider Miss R and Mr Ss complaint about not being able to 
take out a new interest rate product as this hadnt been raised with Lloyds.
Our investigator said it wasnt unfair for Lloyds to start legal action in 2022 or to ask Miss R 
and Mr S for information so it could agree an arrangement to repay the arrears. But it was 
unfair to continue collection activity after the court issued the SPO, so long as payments 
were maintained. Our investigator said Lloyds should pay £500 compensation for the upset 
this caused.
Miss R and Mr S said £500 isnt enough for what theyve been through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R and Mr Ss mortgage had previously been in arrears and a possession order was 
issued in 2012. The arrears were cleared in 2014 but the possession order remained in 
place.
Miss R and Mr Ss mortgage fell into arrears again in 2020. Lloyds says it received no 
payments from Miss R and Mr S between April 2020 to May 2022 and by May 2022 the 
arrears were about £12,500. 
Lloyds says it was unable to agree an arrangement with Miss R and Mr S regarding the 
arrears, as they didnt provide income and expenditure information. Lloyds started legal 
action in early 2022. It asked the court for leave to enforce the possession order, which was 
granted in March 2022.
Miss R and Mr S set up a direct debit to make contractual monthly payments and a monthly 
overpayment of £215. Miss R and Mr S say this was agreed with Lloyds. Lloyds says it didnt 
agree a payment arrangement with Miss R and Mr S, they simply set up a direct debit which 
included an overpayment. Lloyds letter confirming it had set up the direct debit supports this. 
The direct debit was in place until November 2022.
Miss R and Mr S applied to court to vary the possession order. On 4 October 2022 the court 
issued an order saying the possession order from 2012 should be varied so that its 
suspended on terms that Miss R and Mr S pay £215 each month in addition to their 
contractual monthly payment. 
Miss R and Mr S say Lloyds continued to chase them for the arrears. They say it sent letters 
threatening possession action, cancelled the direct debit for the £215 meaning they have to 
pay it manually, and sent a debt recovery manager to the property in mid-2023. 
Did Lloyds treat Miss R and Mr S fairly?
I think it was fair for Lloyds to ask Miss R and Mr S to contact it to discuss their income and 
expenditure with the aim of agreeing an affordable arrangement to repay their arrears. 
Before agreeing an arrangement, Lloyds needs to assess affordability, and re-assess this on 
a regular basis. Miss R and Mr Ss circumstances could change or their monthly contractual 
payment could change (as has been the case).
I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to re-start recovery action in early 2022, given the level of 
arrears on Miss R and Mr Ss account and that there wasnt an agreed arrangement in place. 
I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to instruct solicitors to attend the court hearing in early 
October 2022 for Miss R and Mr Ss application to vary the possession order. Lloyds is 
entitled under the mortgage terms and conditions to add legal costs to the mortgage 
account, and I dont think it was unfair to do so here.
However, I think matters were different after the court issued the new SPO in October 2022. 
Although the possession order remains in place, its unlikely Lloyds would be able to enforce 
it so long as Miss R and Mr S maintain payments in accordance with the court order. I dont 
think it was fair for Lloyds to send letters to Miss R and Mr S suggesting otherwise.
Lloyds says it shouldnt have set up the direct debit in June 2022. It says the correct process 
when an account is in arrears, is to transfer the borrower to its customer financial assistance 
team. In recognition of its error it left the direct debit in place until November 2022. In 
December 2022 it told Miss R and Mr S they can contact it with income and expenditure 
information, so it can set up a new direct debit, or they can pay their contractual monthly 
payment by direct debit and set up a monthly standing order for £215. 
Given the terms of the SPO, I think it would have been fair for Lloyds to leave the direct debit 
(which included the £215 payment towards the arrears) in place. Cancelling it caused 
inconvenience to Miss R and Mr S who, under the terms of the court order, needed to make 
the payment. Lloyds did offer an alternative to Miss R and Mr S which would have avoided 
them having to make manual payments each month.
Putting things right
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to give up the possession order. Miss R 
and Mr S have significant arrears. The possession order was issued by a court and a court 
gave Lloyds leave to enforce the possession order in 2022. Provided Miss R and Mr S 
maintain payments under the SPO Lloyds wont enforce the possession order.
Miss R and Mr S were upset when Lloyds started legal action in 2022. But, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think it was unfair to do so. It follows that I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Lloyds to pay compensation for any upset or inconvenience this caused or require it to refund legal costs and court costs.
I dont think it was fair for Lloyds to continue collection activity after the SPO was issued in 
early October 2022. Lloyds letters suggested it could take action for possession despite 
Miss R and Mr S maintaining payments in accordance with the SPO. Its understandable that 
Miss R and Mr S found this upsetting. 
When considering the amount of compensation I need to take into account the wider 
circumstances. Miss R and Mr Ss mortgage has been in arrears for some time and its likely 
this would have caused them worry and upset. Theyve recently missed payments which 
suggests they could have been struggling to maintain payments, and this would also have 
caused worry. While Miss R and Mr Ss circumstances are difficult, I cant require Lloyds to 
pay compensation for this. I can require it to pay compensation for the additional upset and 
worry caused by Lloyds collections activity between mid-October 2022 and May 2023. For 
this additional worry and upset, I think £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Lloyds says Miss R and Mr S have recently missed payments. It provided account records 
showing the direct debits for the contractual monthly payments due in May 2023 and June 
2023 were returned unpaid. I cant fairly require Lloyds to hold collection activity if payments 
arent maintained. Miss R and Mr S have taken advice previously and they might want to do 
so again. Id urge them to engage with Lloyds to see what options and support it can offer. 
For Lloyds to consider what support might be available, it will need Mr S and Miss R to 
engage with it to provide income and expenditure information. 
A large part of Miss R and Mr Ss mortgage is on interest only payment terms. I dont know if 
Miss R and Mr S have a plan in place to repay the balance when the term expires in 2027. If 
not, they might consider taking independent financial advice about what options might be 
available to them.
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank UK Plc should pay £500 to Miss R and Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman