DRN-2562414
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a motorbike he acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance 
(Santander).
 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr L entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander to acquire a 
new motorbike. The total cash price of the motorbike was approximately £4,000. The total 
charge for credit was around £280, so the total amount payable was approximately £4,280. 
Mr L provided an advance payment of £250, so the monthly repayments on the agreement 
were around £91 over a 24-month period, followed by one payment of £1,845 payable 25 
months after the start date of the finance agreement.
Mr L says that within 30 days of the purchase he contacted the supplying dealer as he had 
experienced a number of faults and issues with the motorbike. He said there was water 
ingress within the clocks, so he was unable to see what gear he was in or his speed. He 
initially also said there was noise when pulling the clutch. He says that when he spoke with 
the supplying dealer, they agreed to order the needed parts and repair the motorbike. 
Shortly after, in July 2020, Mr L also contacted Santander as the dealership stopped 
responding with him, but he says nothing happened for some time even though he was told 
by Santander on numerous occasions that the motorbike would be fixed.  
In August 2020, Santander wrote to Mr L and said that they have spoken to the supplying 
dealership and that it has been confirmed that the parts required will be with them towards 
the end of August 2020. In this correspondence they said that considering that Mr L has 
been without a motorbike for two months by the time he gets it back, they will refund two 
instalments totalling around £182 into his account. 
Mr L was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
While Mr Ls complaint was with our service, the right to reject the motorbike was accepted, 
and the motorbike was picked up in September 2020. And Santander say they returned 
payments made by Mr L back to him.   
Our investigator looked at the complaint and upheld it as he thought that Santander should 
also pay Mr L 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement on the money Mr L has paid. 
Santander disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Mr L acquired the motorbike under a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Santander is 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers conditional sale agreements such as the one 
Mr L entered into. This implies a term into the conditional sale agreement that the goods 
supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not 
limited to, the age and mileage of the motorbike and the cash price. The CRA says the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability.
In Mr Ls case the motorbike was new, with a cash price of approximately £4,000. Given that 
the motorbike was new and considering the price paid, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the motorbike to be of a higher standard than one which 
was used, and more road worn. And given that it was brand new, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period of time.
Santander is not disputing that the motorbike had various problems and after Mr L brought 
his complaint to our service the right to reject the motorbike was accepted. Santander has 
also said that they have returned all payments Mr L has made back to him. Bearing this in 
mind I dont think I have to make a finding on whether the motorbike was of a satisfactory 
quality, but there still remains a question of whether Santander is liable to pay anything else 
to Mr L. 
Our investigator thought that Santander, in addition to refunding all the payments to Mr L, 
should also pay him 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date 
of settlement. But Santander disagreed and said that they have already come to the same 
resolution and that they should not be penalised just because Mr L has taken the complaint 
to our service.
Considering the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable that Santander should refund 
all payments made by Mr L, including the advance payment of £250, if it has not done so 
already, and they should add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement. This is not because Santander is being penalised for Mr L bringing a 
complaint to our service, its because its fair and reasonable that Mr L should be 
compensated for being deprived of money  that is, not having it available to use.
I know that Mr L also questioned whether he can be compensated for the expenses he 
incurred for his helmet and clothing he bought. But I agree with the investigator that Mr L can 
use these items with another motorbike, so I dont think it would be reasonable to make 
Santander liable for the cost of those items. 
In addition, considering the circumstances, I think that it would not be fair or accurate to 
record any adverse information on Mr Ls credit file. Also, the agreement should not be 
recorded as satisfied, as it may give potentially misleading impression to future lenders. So, I think Santander should arrange to remove the credit agreement from his credit file entirely, 
and any adverse markers.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance to:
1. End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay - if this has already not been 
done.
2. Refund any payments Mr L has made - if this has already not been done. 
3. Refund the £250 deposit - if this has already not been done.
4. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 2 and 3 above from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement. 
5. Remove the conditional sale agreement from Mr Ls credit file and any adverse 
markers. 
If Santander considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it
should provide Mr L with a certificate showing how much they have taken off so he can 
reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman