DRN-1108115
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. St Andrew's Insurance Plc says it sold the policy.
What happened
In 2005, Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage through a mortgage broker. At some point, 
Mr and Mrs M were sold PPI to protect this mortgage. St Andrew's says that it sold the policy 
to Mr and Mrs M over the phone in early 2006. Mr and Mrs M say they have no recollection 
of this - they suggest the policy was sold by the broker. But in either case, Mr and Mrs M 
thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M 
don't agree. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs M's case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first thought about when the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs M and whether they'd have 
known they had a choice.
Mr and Mrs M don't think they knew about the PPI. They've told us that they took out the 
mortgage in September or October 2005, and so see no reason why they'd have agreed to 
the PPI three months later by telephone. They think they didn't deal with Halifax directly at 
all, but with a broker. So I've thought about what Mr and Mrs M has said alongside the other 
information I've seen about the sale.
Because of the time that's passed, St Andrew's says it no longer has a recording of the 
phone call when it sold the policy. But I don't think that's unreasonable bearing in mind that 
the policy started in 2006 - I wouldn't expect St Andrew's to keep a recording indefinitely.
St Andrew's has sent us a copy of the mortgage application form, which was submittted to 
the lender by the broker. This doesn't show that Mr and Mrs M were sold PPI at that time.
St Andrew's has also sent us extracts from its computerised records. These list a "cover 
start" date of 20 January 2006. It also has a record showing the source of the sale was an 
inbound call together with a note saying that on the morning of 20 January 2006 Mr M called 
to set up the PPI policy. Finally, the records suggest that the policy was cancelled at the 
request of Mr and Mrs M on 14 February 2008.I need to decide what's most likely based on what I've seen. Given the screenshots and the 
application form, I'm not persuaded the PPI was added by the broker. It looks as though it 
was added at Mr M's request in January 2006. It was cancelled in 2008. So taken together I 
think it's more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew they had this policy at the time, even if now, 
after all these years, they don't remember this. As the policy started some time after the 
mortgage, I don't think it's likely that Mr and Mrs M thought it was a condition of the 
borrowing. And so I think Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice about buying the policy - 
and chose to buy it.
St Andrew's advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy - so it had to make sure it was right for 
them. Based on what I've seen, it looks as though the policy would have been useful to 
Mr and Mrs M. In particular, they don't appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didn't cover.
While I recognise that Mr and Mrs M would have received some sick pay if they were off 
work sick, this policy would have met their mortgage payments for up to a year - which is 
longer than Mrs M was paid her full salary in these circumstances. The policy protected a 
mortgage, and their home was at risk if they couldn't meet the repayments.
Mr and Mrs M also say that Mrs M's mother could have helped them make the mortgage 
repayments if needed. But while I don't doubt that she'd have wanted to help if she could, I 
don't think this was guaranteed to be available if Mr and Mrs M needed it.
Mr and Mrs M have also mentioned death in service benefit and life and critical illness 
benefit. But these other policies would only pay out of Mr and Mrs M died or suffered from 
one of a number of serious illnesses. This policy paid out if Mr and Mrs M had been off work 
sick for a month, or if they were made redundant. So I don't think they make the policy 
unsuitable.
It's possible that the information St Andrew's gave Mr and Mrs M wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But I'm satisfied, for the reasons above, that Mr and Mrs M knew they had the 
policy - so it looks as if they wanted this type of cover. The policy appears to have been 
affordable and it looks as though the policy could have been useful to them if something 
went wrong. So I don't think better information would have stopped them from buying it.
I've considered the other points Mr and Mrs M have raised. In particular, Mrs M says that the 
lender admitted mis-selling PPI on a credit card, when her financial circumstances were 
pretty much the same. But every sale will be different, and different things can go wrong 
depending on when and how a policy was sold. So this doesn't change my conclusion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman