DRN-3607308
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs Ws complaint is about a mortgage they hold with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). 
They are unhappy about what they feel was a lack of support when they were in financial 
difficulties. They have also told us that, when their fixed interest rate product finished in 
2009, they were told they couldnt have a new one and would have to apply for a new 
mortgage. As they were aware that their credit ratings had been affected by their financial 
difficulties, they didnt feel able to apply for a re-mortgage. They have since been given a 
new fixed interest rate product via a mortgage broker and believe BoS could have given 
them one earlier.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs W took out a mortgage for just over £300,000, all but around £2,000 of which 
was on an interest-only basis. The mortgage started in the autumn 2007, had a term of 17 
years. There was an interest rate product added to the mortgage, which ended in September 
2009. 
In the autumn of 2009 Mr P and Mrs W would have been written to by BoS, reminding them 
that their interest rate product was about to expire. The letter would have set out what the 
interest rate they would revert to would be and how much that would cost them on a monthly 
basis. They were told that if they werent happy with the payment/interest rate they should 
speak to BoS to see what options were available to them.
Although BoS doesnt have a record of Mr P or Mrs W contacting it at the time, Mrs W has 
said that this did happen. Mrs Ws said that she was told there was nothing BoS could do for 
them (there were no beneficial rates available) and if they wanted such a rate, they would 
need to re-mortgage away from a self-cert basis. Shes told us they werent happy about this 
and confirmed that they couldnt re-mortgage due to their financial situation. The mortgage 
reverted to BoS standard variable rate (SVR) of interest.
In the September of 2018, 2019 and 2020 BoS sent Mr P and Mrs W annual statements for 
their mortgage. The 2018 letter stated:
Helping you make the most of your mortgage
When initial product rates come to an end, you will usually go onto one of our lender variable 
rates. You may not be aware that once you are on a lender variable rate there may be other 
product options available.
Lender variable rates, which are set and managed by us, can give more flexibility 
because there are no restrictions on the amount you can overpay and you can move 
your mortgage at any time. 
As these rates may change some people find it more difficult to budget.
Fixed rates on the other hand have the following features:
Provide stability of payments during the fixed rate period, however, you will not benefit if 
interest rates fall. Early repayment charges usually apply and there are restrictions on 
how much you can overpay. 
Sometimes, the fixed rates on offer could be at lower rates than a lender variable rate.
We understand circumstances can change so its reassuring to know you can get in touch 
with us at any time to discuss your mortgage arrangements.
Please take time to read through your statement. If you have any questions or youd like to 
discuss the details of your mortgage with us, you can contact us on the number at the top of 
this letter.
The 2019 and 2020 annual statements stated:
As all or part of your mortgage is on a variable rate, your payments can go up or down as 
interest rates change. staying on a variable rate might suit your needs and circumstances 
but we recommend that you regularly review your mortgage options. 
Things to consider when looking at fixed and variable rates are summarised over the page. 
You can visit our website at anytime where you have the option to review and manage your 
mortgage online.
The statement then went on to give a telephone number to call if Mr P or Mrs W wanted to 
discuss their mortgage.
It doesnt appear that Mr P and Mrs W looked into whether they could attach a new interest 
rate product to their mortgage again until the spring of 2021. They did so via an independent 
mortgage broker. Their application succeeded and they raised a complaint about what they 
were told in 2009 and the fact that BoS didnt offer them a new product at any point after 
that.
BoS responded to the complaint. It said that it had no record of Mr P or Mrs W contacting it 
when their interest rate product ended. As such, it was unable to uphold their complaint. It 
also pointed out that if Mr P and Mrs W had been in arrears on their mortgage at that time, it 
wouldnt have offered them an alternative product. In relation to the administration of the 
recent product transfer, BoS said it had caused delays, would backdate the change and paid 
£75 compensation for the inconvenience.  
Mr P and Mrs W werent happy with the response about access to an interest rate product, 
and they asked this service to consider the complaint. They didnt ask us to consider the 
issues relating to the application of the new interest rate product to the mortgage.
When BoS was informed that Mr P and Mrs W had asked us to consider their complaint, 
BoS informed us that it believed that the complaint had been raised too late and so it didnt 
consent to us considering it. 
One of our investigators looked into whether we could consider Mr P and Mrs Ws complaint. 
She concluded that we could only consider part of it. The aspect of the complaint relating to 
what Mr P and Mrs W had been told in 2009 was time-barred under our rules as it had been 
raised too late. In addition, in relation to their concerns about them not having been given a 
new product at any point thereafter, she concluded that we were only able to look at this 
issue for the six years before the complaint had been made.The investigator went on to consider the merits of the part of the complaint that fell within our 
remit. She explained that prior to 2018 there had been no requirement for lenders to 
proactively contact consumers about changing interest rate products. After that, BoS 
informed Mr P and Mrs W on a yearly basis that they could speak to it about the interest rate 
payable. The investigator thought that BoS had taken reasonable steps to contact Mr P and 
Mrs W about the matter of the interest rate on their mortgage from the point it had committed 
to doing so, and she didnt think that BoS had acted unfairly toward them. 
Mr P and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions in relation to either what parts of 
their complaint we could consider or the merits of the part we had. As such, it was decided 
that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman. 
The complaint was referred to me and I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction on 
20 July 2022. I concluded that we were only able to consider Mr P and Mrs Ws ongoing 
concern about being left on SVR and not being offered alternatives by BoS over the six 
years from June 2015. The remainder of the complaint fell outside our remit. The complaint 
has now been passed back to me to consider 
What Ive decided  and why
We review our jurisdiction at every stage of our process and so I have reviewed it again. I 
remain satisfied that my conclusions set out in my decision of 20 July 2022 are correct. This 
decision will only, therefore, consider Mr P and Mrs Ws concerns about having remained on 
SVR since June 2015.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator sets out what a lender is required to do when it is administering a mortgage. 
Proactively contacting borrowers about interest rate products isnt one of those things and 
so, historically, it wasnt common practice for that to be done. I cant find BoS acted 
inappropriately in not doing so.
That said, from 2018 BoS did include information about interest rate products with Mr P 
and Mrs Ws annual statements. I consider this information made it clear that there might 
have been options available to them, and what they needed to do to explore those options. 
As a lender isnt in a position to provide unsolicited advice, this is all that I would expect BoS 
to do  invite Mr P and Mrs W to ask for information or advice. It was then for Mr P and Mrs 
W to act and contact BoS to ask about taking out a new interest rate product if they wanted 
one.
I note that Mr P and Mrs W say they didnt apply for a new interest rate product before 2021 
because they had previously been told they couldnt have one. However, as I have said 
above, BoS made it clear from 2018 that there was the possibility of them being able to have 
a new product and there was nothing to have stopped them making enquiries before that. 
Overall, I cant find that BoS acted inappropriately or treated Mr P and Mrs W unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 September 2022.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman