DRN-1986914
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers). He also 
complains that they were not supportive when he told them he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. I know that will disappoint Close 
Brothers so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Close Brothers provided their final response to Mr Hs original complaint in September 2018. 
That complaint concerned quality issues with the car which are the same ones he 
complained about to this service. Our investigator has explained our rules dont allow us to 
consider complaints made later than six months after the business have provided their final 
response. 
So, Im not considering Mr Hs original complaint to Close Brothers. But our remit does allow 
us to consider the full substance of a complaint and gives us latitude to consider things we 
believe the business has not considered.
Here, I dont think the business considered Mr Hs financial difficulties when they took his call 
in September 2019. He explained that he was experiencing financial difficulties because of 
the repair costs he was facing on his car. At that point I would have expected the business to 
be sympathetic and supportive of Mr Hs situation. They knew hed been experiencing 
problems with the vehicle previously and that hed had costs to pay. So, I think it was 
reasonable to suggest they should have understood his position and tried to help. 
I understand that they were prepared to delay a repayment by a month, but I dont think that 
really helped Mr H and I think they should have discussed a payment plan with him.
Close Brothers say that Mr H didnt complain about the turbo issues he was having to pay 
for. They say thats why they didnt consider that part of his complaint, but I think it was 
reasonable for them to have done so. I think they could at least have explained to Mr H why 
they considered it was his responsibility to pay for a fault that had happened such a long 
time after hed taken out the finance agreement with them.
I dont think sufficient evidence has been provided that the turbo problem was present or 
developing when Mr H took receipt of the car in June 2018. This wasnt a new car, it was 
twelve years old, and I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear. I think, 
on balance, and given the lack of information to the contrary, that the turbo fault was likely to 
have been the result of fair wear and tear and Im therefore not asking Close Brothers to 
take any further action to refund the repair costs.
Putting things right
Close Brothers lack of action on Mr Hs financial problems and when not responding to the 
turbo issues he was experiencing has caused Mr H some inconvenience and, in the 
circumstances, I think compensation of £150 is reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers 
Limited to pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman