DRN-2662495
The complaint
Mr K complains about Business Loan Network Limited (trading as ThinCats.com) failing to
present accurate information on a loan he invested in on its peer to peer lending platform.
What happened
ThinCats is a peer to peer internet-based lending platform where a group of individual 
lenders contribute towards a larger aggregate loan to a single borrower. The loans are
auctioned so that individual lenders can participate and make a bid. Once a bid is made, the
specified amount of money from the member account will be allocated to that bid. Once the
borrower accepts enough bids to meet its aggregate lending requirement, ThinCats enter
into a loan agreement with the borrower on behalf of all the lenders.
Mr K invested £35,000 in company P in mid-February 2016. The purpose of the loan was for
development finance of a farm with repayment from sale or refinance with a challenger bank.
Three loans were released, each with a 12-month term. Mr K invested in the second tranche,
which was for £170,000 at 11.25% fixed interest, loan to value of 0-30% said to be backed
by security of £600,000.
The security was held out as:
1. A first fixed and floating charge over company P;
2. First legal charge over freehold land and buildings;
3. Inter company guarantees from all associated businesses;
4. Personal guarantees from the director limited to £520,000 in total.
The information pack was silent as to the ranking of the loans. The director answered
questions from lenders on the platform about the ranking.
The director was said to have assets of circa £10 million, of which £5 million related to the
principal residence plus other investment land/properties. The family trust had further assets
of circa £3 million which included land and shares of SCHSE. In his own right, without any
joint assets or trusts, after liabilities, the director had circa £3.5 million. Against this, there
were bank liabilities totalling £1.7 million which reduced since previous lending submissions,
virtually all with Handlelsbanken and related to the loans outstanding on the principal
residence and investment land/properties. Some of these assets were in the process of
being sold, which would reduce the liabilities further and increase his personal cash
position.
The information pack also set out the fallback and recovery process as follows:
The subject of what would happen in the event of a distressed situation is something both
the Sponsor and the Borrower have discussed in detail.
Regular monitoring enhanced by communication from the borrower and his professionals are
the first element of monitoring regarding performance and stress.
 That in respect of this development, the first position is exit by sale. Should that not
be achieved then this would revert to refinance with the agreed facility from the
issuing bank:
 For whatever reason should this fail then arrangements would be made with for
either a Group internal purchase:
 Should that fail an external lending product would be sought:
 Should that fail the assets due to the combined LTV could be sold at auction:
 Should that fail then inter group funds would have to cover that position:
 Should that fail then the shareholding trust and the guarantor would be required to
perform.
 There are significant layers of fallback positions so as to protects lenders interests.
Reputationally the Company due to its close associations with the Group and its professional
relationships it would be highly undesirable for the Company to fail and so there are
considerable safeguards put in place to cover this position.
Mr K says he chose loan 2B despite a lower interest rate, as it had a low loan to value (0%-
30%) and a first charge over the freehold land and buildings, whereas loan 2C had a higher 
interest rate but held a secondary charge over the same assets with a higher loan to value of 
30%-60%. Mr K believed that he was investing in the senior secured loan, that would be 
satisfied first if recovery action was pursued. 
The loans defaulted in May 2017, the company went into administration in April 2018 and the 
assets were sold in October 2018. Mr K anticipated that the full sum of the assets would be 
applied to the loan he had invested in, given that it had the first charge. ThinCats initially 
distributed the amount recovered equally between the two loans. After complaints by lenders 
within loan 2B, ThinCats reversed the distribution to loan 2C and placed the funds in an 
interest-bearing client account. Mr K was disappointed to discover there was ambiguity as to 
how the loans ranked in priority. The funds have remained in a client account pending 
resolution of the ranking issue. 
Mr K believes that ThinCats misled investors, as it now appears the information presented 
on the platform was contradictory". Mr K is concerned that the issue has not been resolved 
and the funds have still not been distributed. He asks ThinCats to recognise that loan 2B 
ranked above 2C and to pay the balance of the recovered funds to him. 
ThinCats accepts that information provided by the sponsor/borrower was ambiguous and
statements as to the ranking between the loans was contradictory. It has explained that
recovery action has been taken but the balance of funds from sale of the assets cannot be 
distributed until a conclusion has been reached as to ranking of the loans.
ThinCats also says it wasnt responsible for checking all the information provided by the
sponsor and that it was for Mr K to undertake due diligence checks. During the course of
investigations, it was discovered that the borrower and sponsor provided incorrect valuations
and misrepresented other details in their information packs and in direct responses to
lenders.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks concerns. She confirmed that it wasnt her role to 
determine whether one loan ranked above another. The core issue was whether Mr K was 
provided with clear, fair and not misleading information about the security for the loan. She 
thought it was likely that if Mr K had been provided with clear and accurate information with 
clearer caveats around the security, he wouldnt have invested in the loan. Her reasons were 
as follows:
 ThinCats had a responsibility to ensure the information presented was clear, fair andnot mis-leading. She thought ThinCats ought to have verified the communications to
potential lenders;
 the fact that ThinCats accredited the sponsor, did not absolve ThinCats of its
obligations around information provision;
 whilst the terms and conditions said ThinCats were not responsible for checking all
the information provided to lenders, ThinCats needed to comply with the rules set out
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as to information provision and conducting
business with due care, skill and diligence;
 given ThinCats identified that incorrect information had been shared, the action
against the third parties was acknowledgment of ThinCats negligence in failing to
carry out adequate checks;
 ThinCats hadnt provided evidence of the due diligence checks it carried out;
 ThinCats had failed to provide clear and accurate information about the security for
the loan;
 if this had been clear, it was unlikely that Mr K would have invested.
Our investigator thought Mr K wanted to invest in peer to peer loans, so it was likely that he
would have still invested in similar loans in any event. To put things right, she thought
ThinCats should:
 calculate how much Mr K had received back from his initial investment - including
any funds that have been recovered and returned to him (A) - the actual value.
 calculate how much Mr K would have received, had he received an average rate of
return for loans of similar risk across the platform from the date of investment until
the date the loan was due to be repaid (B) - the fair value.
 If B is greater than A, should pay Mr K the difference. If A is greater than B
then Mr K hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will be no financial compensation
to pay.
ThinCats should also pay Mr K 8% simple interest from the date the loan should have been
repaid (the end date) to the date of settlement. This is to reflect the fact Mr K should have
received his funds back at that point but had been deprived of the use of this money since
that date.
If recovery actions are still ongoing at the date of settlement, and provided Mr K agrees to
the redress proposed, ThinCats should take ownership of the loans. If it is not possible for
ThinCats to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr K that he repays
any amount he may receive from the recovery distributions in the future. This is because it
wouldnt be fair for Mr K to benefit from any future payments received from the loans when
hes already been compensated.
ThinCats disagreed with the view. In summary, it said:
 each loan should be considered on a case by case basis taking into account the
platforms terms and conditions at the time of investment, the specific information
made available to the lenders, the due diligence undertaken by the lender;
 whilst security is offered, it can depreciate and dissipate in value;
 terms and conditions made it clear ThinCats did not have a responsibility to verify all
of the information contained within the loan proposals provided by the sponsor and
borrower. All valuations and supporting documents were provided by the sponsor
and borrower from third party experts such as solicitors and valuers, so ThinCats was
entitled to rely upon them and had not failed in any duty to the lenders; 
 there was a time lapse between a loan proposal placed on the platform and an
auction starting as lenders were required to carry out their own due diligence and the
platform offered a Q&A facility so all potential investors could ask questions orrequest for more information from the borrower and sponsor;
 Claims had been brought against the third parties as each lender could not bring
proceedings individually, this did not amount to a concession of negligence;
 ThinCats terms conditions set out the risk warnings;
 ThinCats has always acted in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions and
acted with due skill, care and attention. The ongoing recovery process at its own cost
demonstrates it is fulfilling its duty to its lenders as lender agent and security trustee;
 ThinCats doesnt agree with the redress proposal as it doesnt take into account the
lenders requirement of completing their own due diligence, understanding of the risk
of lending, secured or otherwise. ThinCats should not take ownership of the loans
during the recovery process as lenders are made aware in the terms and conditions
that the lender makes an individual loan to the borrower.
As the parties dont agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In reaching my conclusions on this complaint, Ive considered the wider obligations on
ThinCats. This includes good industry practice, and any applicable guidance or rules from
the FCA.
At the time of promoting Company Ps investment opportunity, ThinCats was authorised and
regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required
to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
whole or in part to every firm". The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
 PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence."
 P RIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and
treat them fairly."
 PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not
misleading."
ThinCats was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
 COBS 2.1.1 R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance
with the best interests of its client."
 COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion
is fair, dear and not misleading.
So before holding out the promotional material provided by Company P, ThinCats needed to
satisfy itself that the material itself was clear, fair and not misleading. And it also needed to
be satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company
P would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. Its not disputed that ThinCats did
not provide investment advice.Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied at the time Mr J invested, these are
dated 30 September 2015. Under Section 21 Liability it states:
2. We will use all reasonable endeavours to provide BLNs services with reasonable care
and skill and to seek ways in which the risks can be minimised.
3. We will take care to ensure that our communications are dear, fair and not misleading.
This express recognition within the terms and conditions, shows that ThinCats was aware of
the requirements around information provision.
These terms and conditions did not expressly state that it was for the lender to undertake
their own due diligence. But Ive seen the statement at page 1 of the terms and conditions
document, which says, Since investors are making their own decisions they have only
themselves to blame for those decisions. In other words, ThinCats thought it was for Mr K to
satisfy himself that the investments were right for him. ThinCats set out risk warnings in its 
terms and conditions.
It was open to ThinCats to present the information provided from the sponsor to investors for
their consideration and its fair to say that as no advice was being given, it was for each
investor to decide whether or to the investment was suitable for them. But it was for
ThinCats to undertake due diligence checks on the promotional information to be satisfied
that the information being presented on its platform was clear, fair and not misleading, to
enable investors to make an informed decision. ThinCats repeatedly says the due diligence
checks were down to the lender, but this evidences a fundamental misunderstanding of its
responsibilities.
ThinCats also say it was entirely reasonable to assume everything was in order from the
face of the documents provided. At its highest, its said it undertook a plausibility check,
relying upon the valuations allegedly prepared by a RICS registered valuer and it assumed 
that the loans ranked equally. I dont think simply looking at the face of a document that was 
central to the reliability of the security for the loans was enough. In the applicable terms and 
conditions from 2015 ThinCats held itself out as being unusual as it only makes secured 
loans; it was not unreasonable to expect that it would check whether the loans were indeed 
secured and the basis of that security, otherwise the whole premise on which investments 
were made would have been misleading.
Theres nothing prescribed by the FCA as to what reasonable checks might involve and I
agree that reasonable checks vary according to the particular circumstances. But, despite
reasonable requests, theres nothing to show that ThinCats undertook any other checks or
steps to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material. It was an obvious risk that if the information was
inaccurate, investors would be unable to make an informed decision about the level of risk
they would be exposed to when choosing whether to lend. It also called into question the 
reliability of answers to questions that were raised. Further, the sponsor was paid by the 
borrower, so due diligence checks were a common-sense step to minimise the risk of 
misleading information being shared and to maintain transparency.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essentialinformation on which any communication or promotion is based.
The paper simply clarifies the interpretation and application of the rules and guidance which
were already applicable to ThinCats. And Im mindful that the 2013 consultation on
crowdfunding also highlighted that investors should be provided with clear, fair and not
misleading information so as to be able to make informed decisions. The importance of
disclosure was highlighted, namely, that it should be clear to investors how much due
diligence had been conducted.
In this case, the information pack about the loan listed several securities as well as the loan
to value for each loan. ThinCats now admit that the third parties had provided incorrect
valuations and had misrepresented other details in their information packs. Also, as the
information pack was silent as to rankings of the loans. ThinCats assumed that they ranked
equally and/or pari passu. It wasnt until after the assets had been realised that ThinCats
discovered the director had posted contradictory answers about the security ranking on the
platform, but this information was available to them at the time. 
ThinCats refer to a dichotomy between the valuations stated in the valuations provided by 
the sponsor and the borrower. The misrepresentations have formed the basis of claims now 
being pursued against the third parties.
In the absence of any supporting evidence from ThinCats at all, Im not satisfied on the
balance of probabilities that reasonable checks were carried out about the accuracy and
reliability of information provided about the security for this loan. I think it is more likely than
not that appropriately detailed checks wouldve identified issues before the promotions were
approved. Theres also nothing to show that ThinCats took any steps in response to the
contradictory information later shown on their platform.
I cant say whether ThinCats would have granted approval for Company Ps loans to be
published on its platform, if such checks had been performed. But even if it had decided to
approve the loans, despite what it found, ThinCats would have been obliged to share
accurate information with prospective investors under the requirement to provide clear, fair
and not misleading information.
Mr K has been clear that he relied upon the security and valuation information, in particular,
he relied upon the loan being lower risk and being a priority in the security ranking. He would
not have taken the risk of investing if the ranking had not been determined. I consider its
likely that Mr K would not have invested in this loan had the issues around the security been 
explained, as hed have been exposed to more risk than he wanted to take.
It may be that ThinCats has subsequently taken advice and legal action to try and maximise
returns for the lenders after the loans defaulted. But these steps occurred after the
information had been relied upon and the investments had been made, so they cant cure
the original shortcomings by ThinCats.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I consider that it is fair and reasonable for
ThinCats to put things right.
Putting things right
 When looking to put things right for Mr K, my aim is to put him as close as possible to the
position he wouldve been in but for ThinCats error.As Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr K wouldnt have gone ahead with this investment. But I 
do think that Mr K wanted to invest in peer to peer lending. So, if not in this particular loan,
Im satisfied Mr K wouldve still invested in similar loans if hed had the chance.
So, to put him back in the position he wouldve been in had things not gone wrong, I think
that ThinCats should calculate how much Mr K has received back from his initial investment
- including any funds that have been recovered and returned to him (A) - the actual value.
It should then calculate how much Mr K wouldve received, had he received an average net
rate of return for loans across the platform from the date of investment until date the loan
was due to be repaid (B) - the fair value.
If B is greater than A, ThinCats should pay Mr K the difference. If A is greater than B, then 
Mr K hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will be no financial compensation to pay.
Thincats should also pay Mr K 8% simple interest from the date the loan shouldve been
repaid (the end date) to the date of settlement. This is to reflect the fact Mr K shouldve
received his funds back at that point but has been deprived of the use of this money since
that date.
If recovery actions are still ongoing at the date of settlement, and provided Mr K agrees
to the redress Ive proposed, ThinCats should take ownership of the loans.
If it is not possible for ThinCats to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from
Mr K that he repays any amount he may receive from the recovery distributions in the future.
It wouldnt be fair for Mr K to benefit from any future payments received from the loans when
hes already been compensated.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I direct Business Loan Network Limited
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman