DRN-3939069
The complaint
Mr G and Ms L are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd (RSA) has 
handled a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Ms L has led the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to her for simplicity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms L got in touch with RSA in October 2022 after a paint spillage caused damage in 
her home.
RSA initially appointed a flooring company, R, to look into things. R said it would visit 
and then said it wouldnt as it needed to refer the claim back to RSA.
RSA then appointed a different company, C, to consider things  but Ms L didnt 
know this had happened or what Cs role was. C arranged a video call with Mr G.
C asked for information Ms L had already provided to R and for Mr G to repeat in 
writing what hed said during the call. C revealed it had concerns about the nature of 
the damage, which is why it was investigating things so thoroughly.
After assessing the information provided by Ms L and Mr G, C accepted the claim on 
behalf of RSA. It said the claim process had been dragged out and apologised for 
any stress that had been caused as a result. Ms L complained and asked for a year 
of insurance premiums to be refunded.
RSA didnt think there had been any avoidable delays. It said it had followed its usual 
process, although it apologised for not informing Ms L that C had been appointed.
Our investigator said RSA had acted fairly when it investigated the claim. She 
thought RSAs communication could have been better, particularly about C, but was 
satisfied RSAs apology was reasonable. She didnt think it should refund premiums.
Ms L first got in touch with RSA on 27 October and the claim was accepted on 23 
November. A month is longer than Id usually expect for a claim of this nature, but not 
significantly so. I consider Cs apology is a fair response to this.
Im satisfied RSA was entitled to consider the claim thoroughly, including the video 
call, asking for further information, and validating the circumstances of the loss. The 
process would have been smoother if RSA, R and C had been clearer about what 
was happening, and shared information amongst themselves.
I think this likely caused Ms L some avoidable distress, but I consider RSAs apology 
is a fair response to this.
Ms L has had a claim accepted under the policy. I wont ask RSA to refund premiums 
because Ms L has had the benefit of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman