DRN-3767001
The complaint
Mr S complains that the Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia incorrectly made his 
account dormant.
What happened
When Mr S contacted Britannia to close his account in June 2022, he discovered it had been 
made dormant, with the funds transferred to unclaimed assets.
Britannia explained this was because Mr S hadnt made any transactions in 15 years.
Mr S is dissatisfied with this explanation and says he wasnt notified and given the 
opportunity to prevent Britannias action. Also, he pointed out he updated his passbook in 
2015. 
Mr S wants Britannia to give him his money back together with the interest that he wouldve 
accrued. Also, as he feels theyve made mistakes, he thinks Britannia shouldnt be asking 
him to go through an account reinstatement process. In addition, he feels a goodwill gesture 
is warranted for the time he has wasted. 
Britannia cant see theyd made an error. They said they did send Mr S a letter setting out 
their intention to make his account dormant and that they wouldnt have taken dormancy 
action if theyd had a response within the timeframe given. They added that a transaction 
wouldve been needed to maintain contact and they didnt deem a passbook entry as contact 
because anyone could bring this in for an update. 
Britannia added they would return the funds and pay interest owed but Mr S needs to 
complete a form so the funds could be returned to them. Also, due to the passage of time, 
Mr S needs to show proof of identity. Britannia offered £25 compensation which Mr S 
declined.
Mr S complained to our service however our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
As Mr S remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain this service cant instruct a business to alter its procedures, 
processes or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services 
industry and our role is to consider each individual case. And, where we think a business 
hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be 
done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
Although Im pleased to see that Mr Ss account will be reinstated with accrued interest 
applied, I can understand his frustration at having to complete forms and show proof of 
identity for this to happen. 
However, Im satisfied Britannias request is a reasonable one. This is because Mr Ss 
account was transferred to unclaimed assets and, regardless of whether there was an error, 
as a transfer was enacted to a third party a procedure and process is necessary for Britannia 
to reinstate Mr Ss account. And, whilst I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, for the reason 
explained above I cant tell a business to make an exception here.
As Britannia have confirmed that they will reinstate Mr Ss account, whats left for me to 
decide is whether Britannia made errors here and, if they did, a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation to put matters right. 
I looked closely at the opportunities for dormancy action to have been prevented, to see if 
there was any evidence that Britannia had made errors.
I first considered whether Britannia shouldve updated their records when Mr S updated his 
passbook in 2015. As there is no requirement for the account holder to be present, I think it 
both logical and reasonable for Britannia to view a passbook update differently to a 
transaction. Also, to not record it as a confirmed customer contact. 
As Mr S says a Britannia representative advised him that a passbook entry shouldve been 
captured as a contact, I made further enquiries. However, from analysis of the available 
information, I think it more likely than not that the junior staff member who spoke to Mr S 
miscommunicated or misunderstood Britannias process and procedure. So, I dont think 
Britannia made an error here which wouldve prevented them sending a letter warning him of 
their intention to make his account dormant. 
Regarding the dormancy notification letter Britannia say they sent out in August 2020, as Mr 
S says he didnt receive this, I looked closely at the file to see whether it was likely this was 
sent out. As banks deal with many different types of letters I didnt think it was either unusual 
or suspicious that it took Britannia time to trace the file and submit the letter they distributed 
to Mr S. Also, as banks deal with significant volumes of letters and have to make commercial 
decisions, I didnt think it was unreasonable of Britannia to use standard post. So, from 
reviewing the file, I think it more likely than not that Britannia sent Mr S the letter and, as Mr 
S says he didnt receive it, that it was mislaid in the postal system.     
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr S didnt receive this and get 60 days notice to stop Britannias 
dormancy action, I cant see that Britannia made any errors or failed to follow their own 
procedures or process. So, Im not asking Britannia to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman