DRN-3833506
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way his motor insurer, Highway Insurance Company Limited 
(Highway) dealt with a claim he made on his policy including the delays he experienced in 
his car being repaired and in him being provided with a courtesy car. 
All references to Highway include its agents. 
What happened
In December 2021 Mr Ss car was stolen but was recovered a few days later by the police. 
Mr S reported this to Highway who collected the car so it could be repaired. 
Mr S was unhappy with how his claim was being handled and with the lack of progress. He 
complained to Highway at various points about delays in his car being repaired and also 
about the courtesy car he was given; including the length of time he had it for and the fact 
that it was significantly smaller than his own car. He was also unhappy about the lack of 
updates he was getting from Highway.
Highway agreed there were some delays it was responsible for and accepted that it could 
have kept Mr S more up to date. It paid him £350 in compensation overall. Nevertheless, it 
said that a lot of the delays were down to a global lack of availability of replacement car parts 
which was outside its control. 
Mr S then brought his complaint to us. Among other things he said:
Initially the biggest problem was the lack of communication which meant he had to keep 
chasing Highway for updates. 
Highways phones were always busy, he had to wait a long time to speak to someone 
and was often disconnected while waiting. 
Highway had provided him and other parties with misleading information. 
While the repairs were still ongoing Highway stopped providing him with a courtesy car. 
Highway tried to return his car before it was fully repaired and without warning him.
Mr S said he wanted Highway to continue to provide him with a courtesy car or to pay him 
compensation for the trouble and stress it caused him and to cover some of his travel costs. 
He said he considered £1,500 to be a fair amount. Mr S also said he had to buy another car 
so he could carry on with his life and work as normal and that this cost him £1,654.76. He 
said he wanted to be reimbursed for this and that this would cost less than what Highway 
was paying towards the courtesy car.
Our Investigator initially didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the delay in 
the availability of parts which led to the repair delays was not within Highways control. She 
also thought that Highway ensured Mr S was in a courtesy car while his car was in for 
repairs and that this was fair and reasonable. She didnt think that Highway should have 
extended the hire period beyond May 2022 as at this point Mr Ss car was safe to drive and 
roadworthy and added that the £350 compensation Highway had paid Mr S for its service 
and delays was fair and reasonable. Our Investigator also didnt think Mr S was entitled to a 
courtesy car at all under the terms of his policy. 
Mr S didnt agree. His comments included the fact he believed was entitled to a courtesy car 
under his policy and that Highway didnt question this. He added that, most importantly, he 
didnt agree that his car had been fully repaired in May 2022 as the SOS button was missing 
and said that Highway breached its contract with him. 
Our Investigator then issued a further view in which she said she thought that Mr S was 
entitled to compensation of £40 for the loss of use of his car over four days he was without a 
courtesy car while his was still being repaired. Highway agreed with this but Mr S didnt. He 
said our Investigator failed to collect all the relevant evidence and accepted Highways 
arguments without evidence. He also questioned why our Investigator felt that Highway 
should pay £10 per day for the loss of use of his car when it had previously said to him it was 
prepared to pay £20. Our Investigator explained that this is our usual approach which is 
based on what a court would award. Mr S then asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
Before I issued my decision I asked our Investigator to notify Highway that I was minded to 
award compensation for loss of use over the same period she did but I would ask it to pay 
£20 per day as this is what it had offered Mr S. Highway agreed. Our Investigator also 
informed Mr S of this but he didnt come back with any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it.
What I will consider in this decision
I appreciate that Mr S has made a number of points regarding this complaint. I have 
considered them all but, in this decision, I will focus on the ones I consider to be the most 
important. I will also not go into too much detail about the events that took place and will not 
refer to all the relevant dates as our decisions are anonymised and consumers should not be 
able to be identified from them. 
I further understand that since the complaint came to us Mr S has had his car back, but he is 
unhappy with the quality of the repairs. As this wasnt part of his original complaint, as our 
Investigator said, he will have to raise this with Highway first. If he is unhappy with its 
response, he can bring his complaint to us.
As Mr S pointed out Highway did provide him with a courtesy car so I will not go on to 
consider whether he was entitled to one under the policy or not.
 
Timeline 
Mr Ss car was stolen in December 2019 and recovered five days later. He reported his 
claim to Highway the day the car was stolen. The claim was validated two days later. The 
car was recovered from the police by Highway though I acknowledge Mr S had called in the 
meantime to chase. Hire started on the day Mr Ss car was recovered and taken to a garage. 
The garage quickly acknowledged that it didnt have the capability to carry out the repairs for 
this particular car as it was a fairly new car. There were then some delays in Highway finding 
another garage as most garages were closed due to the holidays. Up to this point I dont 
think there were any significant delays or any delays that Highway was responsible for.Highways engineer said he wanted an inspection to be carried out and this was done at the 
old garage but a report didnt become available until later. And it seems there was roughly a 
15 day delay from the day the inspection took place to the day the car was moved to the new 
garage with nothing being done in the meantime. I think this delay was down to Highway and 
its agents.
Mr S was then notified that hire would end and complained to Highway about this and the 
delays. Highway agreed to extend the hire and upheld Mr Ss complaint on 31 January 2022 
about the delays and lack of updates and paid him £250 compensation. I think this was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
There then were some further delays in the repairs being authorised and Mr S called 
Highway to say he had spoken to the new garage who said they were still waiting for 
authorisation to proceed. It appears repairs were authorised by 11 February 2022 but no 
report was available. Mr S complained again and Highway upheld his complaint and paid a 
further £100 in compensation. I think this was, again, fair and reasonable.
Mr S complained again in March 2022 about further delays and asked for Highway to 
declare his car a total loss and pay him its market value. Highway said that the garage was 
still waiting for parts but had no estimate as to when those would be received. Mr S 
complained again in April and said he wanted a courtesy car that was comparable to the size 
of his car (as the courtesy car was small). Highway responded to Mr Ss complaint and said 
the cost of repairs was much lower than the value of the car so it wouldnt be declaring the 
car a total loss. It added that the lack of availability of car parts was outside its control and 
also that Mr S wasnt entitled to a larger courtesy car. 
Mr Ss policy, like most motor insurance policies I am aware of which cover the provision of a 
courtesy car, says that the courtesy car will be a small hatch back, typically with a one litre 
engine capacity. For this reason, I dont think Highway was obliged to provide Mr S with a 
larger courtesy car. In relation to declaring the car a total loss, as Highway didnt consider 
the car to be uneconomical to repair, I think it acted fairly and reasonably in not declaring the 
car a total loss. 
Hire stopped for four days in May 2022 as the garage had told Highway that repairs were 
nearing completion. Mr S was due to go on holiday and Highway agreed to extend hire until 
the end of May, which was after the car was considered to have been repaired. I agree with 
our Investigator who said that Highway should compensate Mr S for the four days he was 
without the courtesy car over this period. As I have already said Highway has agreed to this 
and agreed to pay £20 per day, which would total £80.  
Highway says that it didnt extend hire beyond this point as Mr Ss car had been repaired 
and was safe and driveable. It said the only part missing was the SOS button which was 
being sourced from China which was in lockdown at the time. Highway tried to return the car 
to Mr S but he didnt accept it as he said it hadnt been repaired and that Highway had 
breached its contract with him. Mr S also said he bought another car in May 2022 so he 
could go to work. Highway issued a further complaint response in June 2022 saying it 
wouldnt agree to any further hire costs and offered to carry out a temporary repair of the 
SOS button.
I appreciate that Mr S feels his car wasnt fully repaired in May and that this meant hire had 
to be extended but I respectfully disagree. I think Highway was entitled to rely on the expert 
opinion of its garage which said the car was safe and driveable at that point. The policy 
doesnt define repair but the dictionary definition is to put something that is damaged, 
broken or not working correctly, back into good condition or make it work again. Mr Ss car 
was put back in a good condition as, according to the garage it was safe and driveable, and this also meant that it worked again. As our Investigator pointed out a lot of other cars dont 
have SOS buttons and this is not an MOT requirement either. In the circumstances I think 
Highway had repaired the car in May.
Even if I did agree with Mr Ss argument, which I dont, I think that he had a duty to 
mitigate/minimise his losses which is something he failed to do. I dont think he mitigated his 
losses by buying another car and refusing to take his car back. I think in these 
circumstances mitigation would have amounted to him accepting the return of his car which 
was safe to drive and potentially agreeing to a temporary repair of the SOS button as offered 
by Highway. For this reason, I dont think Highway should reimburse him for the cost of the 
second car that he bought.
Overall, I can see that there were times where Highways communication with Mr S could 
have been better and also where it could have chased the garage for updates and moved 
the car to another garage more promptly. Nevertheless, I note the majority of the delays 
were down to the lack of availability of parts for Mr Ss car. I dont think this was down to 
Highway or its garage and for that reason I dont think it needs to pay any further 
compensation beyond the £350 it has already paid Mr S other than the £80 loss of use 
payment I mentioned above. I appreciate that this particular repair took an unusually long 
time to be completed but these things can happen and have happened more in the past two 
years since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic when several countries went into lockdown. 
I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed with this decision. I appreciate that he, through no 
fault of his own, found himself in a very unfortunate and frustrating situation. I have also 
seen that Mr S has put in a lot of effort in bringing his complaint to us and provided well 
constructed and well argued points to us and to Highway. But for the reasons I have given I 
dont think Highway must pay Mr S the compensation he has asked for. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above I have decided to uphold this complaint. Highway Insurance 
Company Limited must pay Mr S £80 compensation for the loss of use of his car. This is in 
addition to the £350 compensation it has already paid to him. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman