DRN-3719066
The complaint
Ms S complains that a transfer made through MoneyGram International Limited 
(MoneyGram) went missing.
What happened
On 8 September 2020, Ms S instructed MoneyGram to pay £690 to a relative in the UK. 
MoneyGram sent the money, to be collected at one of its high street agents. The money was 
collected on 9 September 2020.
Ms S complained. She said the recipient didnt collect the money, so it must have been 
collected by someone else. She said she wants to see evidence of who collected it, including 
CCTV  as it wasnt her relative who collected it.
MoneyGram didnt agree with Ms S complaint. They said the receiver completed and signed 
the receive form; the agent confirmed the money was paid out; and the full amount was 
correctly paid to the receiver. 
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator said MoneyGram acted reasonably. 
He said the reference number which was assigned to the transaction was also stated by the 
receiver of the money. The recipient had provided the reference number, the name of the 
sender and give a valid form of identification. MoneyGram provided a copy of the form 
completed by the paying agent who paid out the money. So  the person who collected the 
money knew all the facts as stated and was identified. And so, it was more likely than not 
that the identification documents appeared genuine. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S believes that the money she sent to the recipient must have been picked up by 
someone other than her relative, for whom it was intended. She argues strongly that her 
relative hasnt had the money.
I looked at how MoneyGram does business. And when a transfer is made, a unique 
reference number is given to the sender (Ms S). That number is only known to Ms S, and 
she then advises the number to the person picking up the cash from MoneyGrams agent.
So  the reference number is the important factor here. I looked at the send money 
instruction completed by Ms S and it showed the reference number. I looked at the receipt 
completed by the paying agent. The reference numbers were the same. And the reference 
number at the paying agent would have to have been given by the receiver; having been told 
what it was by the sender (Ms S). So I cant, in all fairness - see how the reference number 
couldve been learnt by someone else. 
I looked at MoneyGrams terms and conditions and they confirm this - as they say to the 
recipient: The Service allow you to receive a money transfer (a Transfer) that has been 
sent by an individual ("Sender"), and is only available to you in your individual capacity 
known to the Sender.
The terms and conditions also say: To receive the Transfer in cash, you must provide the 
Agent with (i) the 8-digit reference number provided to the Sender and (ii) photographic 
evidence of identity, which the Agent reasonably believes to be valid, in the name of the 
recipient... . MoneyGram told us the receivers name is the only piece of information that the 
paying agent is told. For example, the paying agent doesnt know what their age is, what 
they look like or what ID they will have. So, if the receiver gives the correct reference number 
(as was the case), and presents what appears to be a valid identification, the money will be 
handed over.
We asked MoneyGram whether the personal details of the receiver could be disclosed to Ms 
S, but they said such personal information couldnt be disclosed to the sender. I think this is 
reasonable  as in my view, MoneyGram acted in line with the way they do business and 
their terms and conditions  and so I dont think that can be taken any further. 
So, looking at what happened here, and in the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
persuaded that MoneyGram acted reasonably here. I know that Ms S will be disappointed as 
she has argued strongly in support of her complaint. But Im not going to ask MoneyGram to 
do anything. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman