DRN-2889001
The complaint
Mr B complained because Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, changed his 
mortgage product to a cheaper deal, without his consent. 
What happened
In 2012, Mr B and his wife re-mortgaged. They took an interest-only mortgage for £217,633 
plus £995 fees, over 25 years. They had a product at 4.25%, fixed until 1 July 2017.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs B divorced. Ill continue to call the former Mrs B Mrs B for ease of 
reading. Mrs B was awarded the property as part of the divorce settlement. When Mr B 
applied to come off the mortgage, Virgin initially turned down the request, and the mortgage  
stayed in joint names. 
On 3 March 2017, Virgin wrote to Mr and Mrs B about the fact the existing fixed rate product 
would end on 1 July. If no other deal was agreed, the mortgage would go onto the  standard 
variable rate, which at the time was 4.54%.  But there were cheaper fixed-rate deals 
possible. Virgin spoke to Mr B and Mrs B separately. On 26 June, Mr B told Virgin he wasnt 
willing to agree to a review which might lead to a cheaper fixed rate. He wanted the 
mortgage to go onto the standard variable rate instead. He explained that if the mortgage 
went onto a new fixed rate, Mrs B was less likely to have to sell the property, or re-mortgage 
on her own, either of which would release him from the mortgage. He told Virgin that under 
no circumstances was he willing to go ahead with the move to the cheaper new fixed rate.
Virgin decided to go ahead with a straight swap onto the new, cheaper, fixed rate mortgage 
product on Mrs Bs sole signature. The new rate was a 1.48% rate, fixed from December 
2017 until 1 March 2020.
In late January 2018, Mr B rang Virgin to ask about the new deal having been agreed with 
only Mrs Bs signature. Virgin tried to ring Mr B back but couldnt get through.
In mid 2018, Virgin spoke to Mr B because no payment had been made the previous month. 
Mr B said he couldnt pay anything towards the mortgage, and said that as Mrs B had been 
awarded the property in the divorce settlement, payment was up to her. Mr B asked about 
the fixed rate, which he hadnt agreed. Virgin told Mr B that it had made a commercial 
decision to go ahead, because the lower interest rate meant it was more likely that the 
mortgage wouldnt default. The advisor also read out its legal teams comments that as Mr B 
hadnt agreed to the change, Virgin wouldnt be able to pursue Mr B individually for the 
product fee, or any early repayment charge. But it had a first legal charge on the property on 
which it could rely if necessary. It explained that it had decided to accept the relatively low 
commercial risk of default, in the interests of working with Mrs B to ensure she could remain 
in the property. Mr B didnt formally complain at this point.
Mrs Bs was subsequently able to take on the mortgage in her sole name. So in January 
2020 Mr B was released from the mortgage.
Mr B complained. He said that hed never agreed to the new deal, and it had meant he 
couldnt get another residential mortgage of his own. So he wanted Virgin to pay him for the 
rent hed had to pay out between March 2018 and January 2020.
Virgin refused. In its final response letter, it said it had acted appropriately. It said it had 
explained that it had taken the business decision of allowing Mrs B to obtain the lower 
interest rate.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Virgin had contacted him 
repeatedly about the lower-rate deal, and hed made it perfectly clear that under no 
circumstances would he agree, because this meant Mrs B would be less likely to sell up or 
re-mortgage which would release him. He said that if he was legally responsible for any 
default on the loan, his wishes should count for something. Mr B wanted compensation for 
the rent he paid between March 2018 and January 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He thought it was fair that Virgin had agreed 
the deal without Mr Bs consent in these particular circumstances. And Mr B had been 
released from the mortgage in 2020, which was before the 2022 date which the divorce court 
had set for the time limit for Mr B to be released from the mortgage.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the massive thing that had been overlooked was that Virgin had 
signed Mr B up to a new financial contract without his permission. So hed been mis-sold a 
financial contract. He said he had a legal right to choose to enter or not enter new deals, and 
hed refused to agree to Virgins repeated requests to agree to the new deal. Mr B asked for 
an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs aim was to be released from the joint mortgage as soon as possible. He said this was 
the reason why he repeatedly told Virgin that he wanted the mortgage to stay on the 
standard variable rate, which was 4.54% in early 2017, instead of the two-year fixed rate 
deal which was offered in December 2017 at 1.48%. The two year deal which was offered 
would mean a reduction in payments of around £600 each month. Mr B had told Virgin he 
couldnt pay anything towards the mortgage, so it would be Mrs B who would be paying this. 
So Mr B has argued that staying on the higher rate meant that his ex-wife would have to sell 
up, or re-mortgage, sooner.
Marital disputes are often acrimonious, and its not for me to focus on that. But in practical 
terms, Im not persuaded that the best solution, either for Mr or Mrs B, would have been to 
force Mrs B into a position where she had to try to make significantly higher mortgage 
payments than necessary.  
Mr B had also said he wasnt able to contribute anything, so if the mortgage was 
unaffordable for Mrs B, there would have been arrears and a default. This would have meant 
a negative impact on Mr Bs credit file, as well as Mrs Bs.  And if the property had gone on 
to be sold in possession, the impact on both would have been significant. 
Mr B has argued that Virgin didnt have the legal power to make this change because of his 
objections, and that therefore the product was mis-sold. I dont agree. Virgin told Mr B, in the 
July 2018 phone call, that by completing the new product without Mr Bs consent, it couldnt 
pursue him individually for the product fee, or any early repayment charge. So I find that 
there was no financial detriment to Mr B in the new deal, and it wasnt mis-sold. I cant see any reasonable grounds for Mr Bs claim against Virgin. I consider 
there was an advantage to both parties in the cheaper deal Virgin offered. It was more 
affordable and therefore likely that Mr B would be released earlier. I can see no reason for 
Mr Bs claim for rent. He was still liable for the joint mortgage throughout this period, and I 
can see no reason why Virgin should have to pay his rent  there is nothing to say he would 
have been a position to take a new mortgage on his own sooner, had Virgin kept this joint 
mortgage on its standard variable rate with significantly higher monthly payments.  
This services remit is to resolve cases as an alternative to the courts, resolving complaints 
by deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Having done so, 
I find that Virgin acted fairly  when it agreed to the cheaper deal despite Mr Bs opposition. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman