DRN-4120358
The complaint
Ms S is bringing a complaint on behalf of company G. Shes unhappy that ClearBank Limited 
trading as Tide decided not to refund G, in full, following payments as a result of a safe 
account Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam
What happened
Ms S was contacted by scammers pretending to be from Tide. They had spoofed Tides 
telephone number making it appear to Ms S that the call was genuine. They also sent a text 
message to confirm who she was speaking to, and this also appeared in the chain of other 
texts she had genuinely received from Tide (known as smishing). The scammers said Gs 
account was under threat and she needed to move the money to a safe account. She 
followed the scammers instructions, making several payments across a number of days to 
different accounts. 
Date Time Amount Outcome of payment attempt Interaction 
between Tide 
and Ms S
10/05/22 19:34 £6,100 Tide paused this payment for checks 
10/05/22 20:01 £9,500 Unsuccessful  payment returned
10/05/22 20:05 £9,500 Unsuccessful  payment returned
10/05/22 20:25 £9,500 Successful 
10/05/22 20:29 £9,400 Successful 
10/05/22 20:35 Paused 
Payment 
reviewed by 
Tide
11/05/22 08:26 Tide sent 
message to 
Ms S saying 
payment had 
been paused
12/05/22 11:45 £4,000 Successful 
12/05/22 14:30 Tide asks Ms 
S questions 
about 
payments
13/05/22 11:15 £9,500 Successful
13/05/22 11:22 £9,400 Successful
13/05/22 11:32 £8,000 Successful
13/05/22 11:42 £6,500 Successful
Tide paused the first payment for a check but didnt immediately contact Ms S. In the 
meantime, Ms S continued to make payments following the scammers instructions.
Below is a table setting out the events of the scam, payments from Gs account and Tides 
actions during this time.
When Tide did contact Ms S it asked her some questions about payments on Gs account, 
including several of the scam payments. When Ms S responded she explained that some of 
the payments had been made to a new account - that Tide had sent her the details of - 
following the account being targeted by fraudsters. Tide didnt pick up on this and she made 
further payments to the scammers. It was only a few days later when Ms S looked to see if a 
new account existed that she contacted Tide again and realised shed been scammed.
Tide considered the scam and its actions and concluded it ought to have prevented the 
scam from 12 May at 14:30pm when it made contact with Ms S to ask questions, but didnt 
explain the safe account contact shed received hadnt come from Tide. It said on reflection 
that if it had explained this, it could have exposed the scam and prevented any further losses 
from Gs account. It offered to refund Gs losses from that point onwards totalling £33,400 
plus 8% simple interest and £150 as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Ms S. Ive highlighted the refunded payments in bold in the table above.
After Ms S received the above offer from Tide, she asked that we look into the complaint and 
consider Gs remaining losses. The investigator upheld the complaint. There was some 
correspondence between the investigator and Tide. She ultimately concluded that Tide had 
picked up on the first payment Ms S attempted to make but didnt take the appropriate steps 
to intervene at that point. And Tide has since said it paused that payment for reasons that 
we would consider typical of a safe account scam a large transfer to a new payee with her 
name as the reference. 
The investigator concluded:
- If Tide had interacted with Ms S at the point of the first paused payment, it ought to 
have been able to expose the scam at this point as well.
- She didnt think a deduction ought to be made to the refund amount, because Ms S 
had been tricked by a sophisticated scam and didnt act negligently when she 
thought she was dealing with Tide and moving Gs money to keep it safe. 
- She didnt think Ms S had been negligent by continuing to make payments after the 
initial unsuccessful payments. 
- Payments bounce back for any number of reasons and the scammers provided 
reasonable explanations for this at the time. 
- Whilst a series of payments had been made here (rather than a one-off payment) 
scammers will often convince consumers they need to do this (to avoid the payments 
being detected). 
- Whilst Ms S would have been aware how to contact Tide if she had any concerns  
Tide hadnt made it clear (when it did pause the first payment) that Ms S needed to 
be in touch or ought to have concerns about the payment  and therefore the 
instructions she was receiving from the scammers to move her money still seemed 
reasonable.
Tide ultimately asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint saying the scam was highly 
unusual, taking place over a number of days and wasnt a single one-off payment. There 
were multiple red flags about what Ms S was being told to do that she ought to have 
identified. And it didnt fit with the typology of the usual scams Tide sees so there werent 
numerous alerts from its systems.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
Its not in dispute that Ms S has been defrauded. The payments made to the scam were 
authorised. Ms S says she followed the instructions of the scammers to move Gs money to 
keep it safe.  So, even though she didnt intend the payments to go to a fraudster, the 
payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. Tide had an obligation 
to follow the payment instructions it received, and G is presumed liable for the losses in the 
first instance. 
But thats not the end of the story. Taking into account the law; regulators rules and 
guidance; relevant codes of practice; and, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider that Tide should:
- Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
And it appears Tide did have measures in place as it paused Ms Ss first payment and 
eventually made contact with her, asking questions in an attempt to protect, detect and 
prevent scams. That contact turned out to be unsuccessful in preventing further losses to 
Gs account despite Ms S saying she had been provided new account details because the 
account had been targeted by fraud. But Tide has recognised that it could have done a 
better job when it contacted Ms S and it has agreed to refund all payments, after this point, 
and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But Tide has said this was the first point it could have intervened and so it wouldnt be 
refunding the payments made before. I have gone on to consider those payments in the 
context of what Tide knew at the time Ms S made them. And, having done so, I agree with 
the investigator that these need to be refunded by Tide as well. 
Tides records show that when Ms S attempted the first payment, as part of this scam it was 
paused by Tide. And Tide has said thats because it was a transfer in from one of the 
members accounts and then intended to be a transfer out to another of her accounts. And 
from looking at the payment it was to a new payee, for a value of £6,100 and the recipient 
given included Ms Ss name. These are all factors that are common in safe account scams. 
Whilst Tide paused the payment it didnt review it until an hour later. During which time Ms S 
made two further payments, for higher amounts which were then returned. These payments 
werent paused or stopped by Tide despite it stopping the previous payment for a lesser amount. We dont know why these payments were returned. But a further 30 minutes later 
(and almost an hour after Tide paused the first payment) Ms S was able to make two 
successful payments to the same payee for a combined total of £18,900  (more than triple 
the amount it initially paused) to a new payee. These payments exhibited typical safe 
account scam red flags and something I think Tide ought reasonably had concerns about. 
And So I think it ought to have paused these payments as well. If it had intervened at this 
point and asked Ms S questions then I think the scam would have been exposed. Ms S 
would have likely responded, as she did at a later point, to say they were transfers to a new 
account with details shed been given by Tide  and Tide ought to have recognised it was a 
scam at this point. 
Tide has said the timeline of this scam is unusual as Ms S carried on making payments 
across three days. But I think if Tide had looked at what was happening as soon as it paused 
the first payment it ought to have recognised that Ms S was making payments from Gs 
account with all the hallmarks of a safe account scam. 
Tide has argued that there were red flags that Ms S ought to have picked up on and so it 
shouldnt be liable to refund all of her losses. But I think it hasnt fully considered the impact 
of the spoofed telephone number and text message she received which caused Ms S to 
think she was speaking to Tide. I dont think a paused payment or two returned payments 
were events that would have caused Ms S to think the call from Tide wasnt genuine. And 
the message from Tide to say the payment had been paused didnt ask her to make contact 
or say that she needed to be concerned about the payment in anyway. So overall Im not 
persuaded that Ms S could be considered as negligent when she made these payments or 
that any deduction needs to be made from the refund from Tide. 
Putting things right
- ClearBank Limited needs to refund G its remaining losses, totalling £22,900
- Pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date of the payments to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
I direct ClearBank Limited to refund G as set out above. And I uphold Gs complaint against 
ClearBank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman