DRN-3972813
The complaint
Mrs H complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund her for a card payment.
What happened
Mrs H saw two transactions on her account, for €302.90 and £7.71 and raised this with 
Lloyds. Lloyds investigated and couldnt see how someone else had used Mrs Hs card, she 
still had it and hadnt shared her personal identification number (PIN).
Mrs H complained and Lloyds said the transaction had been carried out by chip and PIN, it 
couldnt see how Mrs Hs card had been compromised and it wouldnt refund the transaction. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs H brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator said it was more likely Mrs H had authorised the transaction. The transaction 
was at a cash machine, in the country Mrs H lives in.
The investigator thought Mrs H had likely used the wrong card as Mrs H normally takes cash 
from that cash machine using her local bank account card.
The investigator also couldnt see how someone else had access to Mrs Hs card and 
couldnt see why more money wasnt taken if someone else had the card.
Mrs H didnt agree, she said cards could be cloned, which could explain how she had the 
card, and it was used by someone else. Mrs H also said a more discerning fraudster would 
take a small amount of money so as not to be found out. Mrs H also said she doesnt visit 
town on the day the withdrawal was made as theres a market and its too busy.
Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its generally fair for Lloyds to hold Mrs H liable for a transaction if the technical evidence 
suggests she authorised it.
Ive looked at Lloyds technical evidence and it says Mrs Hs genuine card was used along 
with the correct PIN.
Mrs H told Lloyds she still had the card and never shared her PIN with anyone else. Mrs H 
doesnt use her Lloyds card very much, it seems the last time the PIN was entered was over 
a week before in a different country.
I think its unlikely anyone overlooked Mrs H entering her PIN, then took her card, used it 
and returned it to her without her realising.
Mrs H has said her card could have been cloned. Its generally accepted the chip in a card 
cant be cloned, and this service hasnt any cases where the evidence suggests this has 
happened. So, I think its unlikely Mrs Hs card was cloned.
Also, Mrs H had a significant credit balance in her account, but only a relatively small 
amount was withdrawn.
If someone had, somehow, cloned Mrs Hs card, Id expect them to take as much money as 
they could and as quickly as they could. And that person wouldnt know when Mrs H would 
notice the transaction and cancel the card, so Id expect them to try and access the account 
every day.
Whilst I understand Mrs Hs point that a small amount missing might go unnoticed, I dont 
think thats likely. Mrs H didnt notice the transaction for some time, but the only 
unrecognised use is this single cash withdrawal.
Overall, Im satisfied Mrs Hs genuine card and PIN was used.
And, like the investigator, I think its more likely Mrs H used the wrong card in the cash 
machine she normally uses.
Mrs H has queried how she could withdraw €302.90 from a cash machine, but it appears the 
€2.90 is a fee charged by the machine for not using that banks card. The £7.71 is an 
exchange rate fee, associated with the payment, and this appears correct.
I cant really comment on whether Mrs H was in town that day or not. What I can say is Im 
satisfied Mrs Hs genuine card was, it was used in the cash machine. 
And since I cant see how someone else could have got hold of Mrs Hs card and PIN, I think 
its more likely Mrs H authorised this payment, so its reasonable for Lloyds to hold her liable.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman