DRN-1606227
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that he believes Nationwide Building Society has lost copies of his 
passport and bank statement which were taken when he applied for a mortgage. Mr B is 
concerned that these copy documents, if found, could be used to steal his identity. Mr B is 
also unhappy about the way Nationwide dealt with a Subject Access Request (SAR).
Mr B wants Nationwide to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
numerous call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to the call recordings, and its 
apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than 
others. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than 
has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Ive read the two letters sent by the investigators on 7 January 2020 and 21 February 2020. 
Those letters set out in detail the events leading up to the complaint. Both parties have had 
copies of those letters so I dont need to repeat all the detail here.
Briefly, what happened is this: in July 2018 Mr B wanted to apply for a mortgage. He went 
into a branch of Nationwide, taking with him his passport, bank statements and pay slip. 
These were taken away by Nationwide and then returned to Mr B. He believes that 
Nationwide took copies of all of three documents.
In November 2018 Mr B made a SAR to Nationwide. Mr B says this wasnt completed within 
the specified time limits and although a copy of his payslip was included, there was no copy 
of his passport or bank statement.
Mr B complained. He is worried that Nationwide might have lost his copy passport and bank 
statement, leaving him open to the risk of identity theft.
Nationwide looked into what had happened. Although Nationwide initially thought it might 
have taken a copy of those documents, it explained later that it had only photocopied the 
payslip. Nationwide said the passport and bank statement were used to verify Mr Bs identity 
but copies of those werent taken.Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr B complained to us. The complaint was looked 
at by two investigators, neither of whom thought the complaint should be upheld. They were 
both satisfied that Nationwide had not photocopied Mr Bs passport or bank statement.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that his SAR has still not 
been completed by Nationwide. Mr B also said that he had a call recording where 
Nationwide had told him his passport had been photocopied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, including the call recordings.
First, I note Mr B says Nationwide hasnt responded adequately to his SAR. Thats 
something Mr B will need to take up with the Information Commissioners Office, which is the 
body responsible for enforcing compliance with data protection legislation.
Turning to Mr Bs concerns about identity theft, I know Mr B is adamant that Nationwide took 
away his passport, bank statement and payslip to photocopy them. But the available 
evidence satisfies me that it was only the payslip which was photocopied and retained in 
Nationwides file. The other documents were used to verify Mr Bs identity but I do not 
believe Nationwide photocopied or scanned them, or retained copies of them. 
I say this because Nationwides records state, in relation to Mr Bs membership:
Member Document Manager only holds ID uploaded since September 2018 for 
members who have presented paper documents. No documents for member ID.
Nationwides records confirm Mr Bs passport details were recorded in July 2018, but there is 
no evidence to suggest a photocopy was taken of it, or a scan uploaded onto Nationwides 
system. 
Im also persuaded by the available evidence that Mr Bs bank statement wasnt 
photocopied. Nationwide did photocopy Mr Bs payslip, but as he was applying for a 
mortgage, this was information Nationwide would need on file. The payslip was provided 
when Mr B made his SAR. I think if the bank statement had been copied, that too would 
have been included in the SAR.
Although Mr B says he has a call recording where Nationwide told him it had photocopied his 
passport, this has not been provided to me.
In all the circumstances, and after considering the evidence, Im not persuaded Nationwide 
has done anything wrong. This means that Im not upholding the complaint or ordering 
Nationwide to pay Mr B any compensation.
If Mr B is concerned about identity theft, he can if he wishes contact Cifas (the Credit 
Industry Fraud Avoidance System) which operates a Protective Registration system. For a 
small fee (currently £25 for two years cover) Cifas Protective Registration will place a 
warning flag against Mr Bs name that will let other organisations know to pay close attention 
if his details are used to purchase products or services. So that is an option open to Mr B (at 
his own expense) if he is still concerned that his identity is at risk of being stolen. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman