DRN-3079421
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to invest 
into a stocks and shares ISA. 
Mr C is represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to Mr C in this decision. 
What happened
In July 2000 Mr C invested £5,000 into an ISA upon the advice of Lloyds. The funds were 
invested into a UK Growth Fund. Mr C sold the investment in February 2011 and received 
proceeds of £5,674.42.
Mr C says the investment was too high a risk for him as an inexperienced investor and while 
he didnt suffer a financial loss, he wants redress based on the performance of a product that 
would have been more suitable for him. He complained to Lloyds about the advice he had 
been given.
In its response Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said;
It didnt believe that by investing in the fund it stopped Mr C from wanting to make his 
money work harder and gain better returns than a deposit account. It was reasonable 
for him to invest some of his money over the medium to long term.
The adviser had collected all Mr Cs personal and financial circumstances prior to the 
advice and would have discussed any financial plans he had. It said Mr C was happy 
to invest some of his savings and was left with a reasonable amount of deposit-
based savings for contingency. The level of risk was appropriate, providing a balance 
between risk and reward. It was in place for over ten years so was affordable for him 
over the medium to long term. 
By using the ISA wrapper some of Mr Cs savings were invested in a tax efficient way 
and he was given sufficient information about the risks, aims and benefits before 
making the investment. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to this service. He said the 
advice to invest into the UK Growth Fund was unsuitable for an inexperienced investor such 
as himself. He hadnt suffered a loss when he sold the investment but had only become 
aware he had cause for complaint about the advice to invest after contacting his 
representative. 
The investigator who considered Mr Cs complaint didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary;
Mr Cs recollection was that he was made redundant at some point in the summer of 
2000 and that the funds he had were his redundancy pay. But the investigator had to 
rely on what was recorded at the point of sale and at that time it was recorded that Mr 
C was employed.
Just because Mr C was an inexperienced investor didnt necessarily mean he should 
have only been recommended no or low risk products but instead what was suitable 
for him and what he wanted.
At the point of sale Mr C wanted growth and didnt want to increase his regular 
savings so the investigator thought the UK Growth Fund met his need for growth and 
met his objectives. It was recorded Mr C wanted to take a medium risk and the UK 
Growth Fund was defined as such by Lloyds. 
The investigator thought the investment of £5,000 was affordable and only accounted 
for less than 20% of Mr Cs savings. He had the means to replace the funds. The 
Fund matched Mr Cs attitude to risk, his aims for growth and to get a better return 
than savings. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded Mr C did not want to take a medium risk with his 
investment.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. While there were some differences in his recollection 
and the information collated by Lloyds, the UK Growth Fund was too high a risk for a first-
time investor, it was largely invested into equities. Mr C wanted to achieve greater growth 
but didnt have to take a medium risk to achieve this but for a first-time investor the 
investment was a step too far. There would have been lower risk options available for him.
Lloyds didnt have anything further to add. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs circumstances
Ive considered Mr Cs circumstances at the time the advice was given and as recorded in 
Lloyds Financial Interview document.
I should first say that I agree with the investigator that it is reasonable to rely on the 
information recorded in the fact find from the time of the sale. Mr C has said that his 
recollection is that he was made redundant in the summer of 2000 and that the cash he held 
came about as a result of his redundancy payment. But I am mindful that its over 20 years 
since the sale and memories can fade and in both the fact find and the ISA application it was 
recorded Mr C was employed and had been for many years. So, based on this 
contemporaneous record of what was said, I think its most likely the savings Mr C held at the 
time came about as a result of excess income over expenditure  or similar  rather than as 
a result of a redundancy payment. 
Its recorded that Mr C was 45 years of age, a homeowner with a mortgage and had been 
with his employer for 28 years. He had two savings accounts totalling just over £30,000. He 
didnt hold any investments. Under the attitude to risk section it was recorded Mr C was 
prepared to take a medium risk with his investment and wanted to invest £5,000 over the 
longer term. It was recorded he wanted to create investment from excess cash held on bank 
accounts. 
Under the suggested solutions section in the Summary and Recommendations document it 
said you could commit £5,000.00 into a Unit Trust Individual Savings Account which offers 
the opportunity of capital growth over the medium to long term. This would mean that 
potential capital growth could be achieved in a tax efficient environment free from personal 
Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax liabilities. I note that Mr C signed and dated the document to confirm what was recorded was an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, the risk and characteristics of the products 
had been explained to him and he understood them. Because of this, I think its reasonable 
to rely on the information that was recorded about Mr Cs circumstances. If what was 
recorded wasnt right, Mr C had the opportunity to correct it. And I think its reasonable for 
Lloyds to have relied on what it was told by Mr C at the time. It confirmed its understanding 
to Mr C and he didnt correct it, so it wouldnt be fair to now judge the advice it gave against 
information it wasnt aware of. 
Three weeks later Mr C completed and signed an application form for a unit trust Maxi ISA to 
invest £5,000 into the UK Growth Fund. 
Mr Cs attitude to risk
For this investment, Mr Cs attitude to risk was recorded as being medium. I have considered 
how this came about and how Lloyds made Mr C aware of the varying levels of risk implicit 
in different investments, particularly bearing in mind he was a novice investor. Mr C was 
seeking advice because he didnt have the knowledge or experience to make such an 
investment decision unaided. So, Lloyds needs to demonstrate that it gave suitable advice 
taking into account Mr Cs circumstances, understanding and knowledge after ascertaining 
his attitude to risk. 
As well as the Financial Review document Lloyds has told us at the time of the sale its 
adviser had to use a strict process in order to establish a customers attitude to risk. It said 
the adviser would have introduced its fund guide to the customer at the first interview and 
would have explained the risk and rewards of stock market investment, the varying levels of 
risk and what was meant by them. 
Lloyds said it would also have been explained to Mr C the importance of keeping enough 
capital back to cover short term requirements. Lloyds told us there was a second interview 
where Mr C could have asked any questions and then agreed to invest, or otherwise. Also, 
at the second meeting the adviser would have again discussed with Mr C the chosen fund 
and explained its risk rating and characteristics. 
Whilst Im not convinced that Lloyds has been able to show us how it came to the conclusion 
that Mr C was a medium risk investor, overall, I think this was most likely discussed and 
agreed. Even though I dont have evidence that the risk of investing was explained to Mr C, 
taking into account his ability to understand investment risk and clarification of his 
experience or knowledge to understand the risk involved, I think he reasonably understood 
the risk of the investment. 
I say this because Mr C did sign to say, I have had explained to me and understand the 
risks and characteristic of the products which are being proposed. This was after the second 
meeting which took place around three weeks after the first. And I see from Mr Cs complaint 
form that he said he was told that the value of his investment could fluctuate which would 
suggest there was some sort of discussion about the proposed investment and the potential 
pitfalls. And Lloyds has told us that as part of its advisory process Mr C would have been 
guided through the fund brochure  which tallies with what Mr C has said about his 
awareness that the value of his investment could fluctuate  so I havent seen anything to 
suggest that this was not the case. 
The brochure Lloyds has given us from around the time of the sale is a 20-page document 
and it has a section on stock market investment explaining various risk levels from no risk 
to high risk. Medium risk was defined as Investment primarily in UK stocks and shares, with some fixed interest securities and overseas investments.  Under the Medium risk section of 
that brochure the UK Growth Fund is listed. And under the investment aims of the fund it 
says, Aims to provide long-term capital growth through a wide range of UK ordinary shares. 
So taking all of this into account, I think the levels of risk implicit in investing were explained 
to and discussed with Mr C and he was content to expose his investment money to a 
medium level of risk in order to achieve the potential of capital growth over the medium to 
long term.  
The advice
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mr Cs attitude to risk was assessed by 
the adviser  even though it was only as far as was recorded in the fact find and theres no 
evidence of how Mr Cs attitude to risk was actually assessed  Ive considered whether 
what was recommended to him was right for his circumstances and financial objectives. 
As Ive said above, without any investment experience Mr C would have been totally reliant 
upon the advice given to him. And Ive borne in mind what hed done previously with his 
money  by putting it in a risk-free environment in a savings account. 
But as mentioned above its recorded that Mr Cs investment objective was for the potential 
for capital growth so it seems likely that Mr C did want to explore the opportunity to make his 
money grow more than it had done while in his savings accounts. Taking everything into 
consideration Im persuaded it was more likely that Mr C was willing to take some risk with 
his money.
Mr C has told us he wanted to achieve potentially better returns than cash deposits for some 
of his money. He said he was prepared to take a low level of risk and that the UK Growth 
Fund was too high in risk for a first-time investor. Ive considered this point. 
Mr Cs personal and financial circumstances seem to have been stable  he was 45 years of 
age at the time of the advice, he had just over £30,000 in savings, he had a mortgage and 
been with the same employer for 28 years. 
Mr C has argued that as a first-time investor a medium risk investment was too high a risk 
for him. Ive considered whether, bearing in mind Mr Cs age and circumstances whether 
investing in a medium risk investment for the medium to longer term was right for him. And 
Ive seen nothing to conclude that it wasnt. 
I say this because £5,000 represented just over 15% of Mr Cs investable assets and 
because of his age and circumstances I think he was in the position to absorb any losses he 
could potentially have suffered. So, I think it was affordable for him. And like the investigator, 
just because Mr C had only held his assets in savings prior to the investment 
recommendation doesnt necessarily mean that a medium risk investment was wrong for 
him. 
Overall, Lloyds was suggesting that Mr C take a small portion of the money he had 
previously held in a bank account and put it into a stock market investment. This, on the face 
of it, doesnt seem an unreasonable way to introduce an investor to stock market 
investments that would allow him to see the benefits of that type of asset while limiting the 
impact on his overall financial standing were risks to materialise. But in order for him to do so 
I would expect to see that all of the options and risks were clearly explained to him. 
As Ive said I think its more likely Mr C was given sufficient information for him to be aware 
of the varying levels of risk and potential rewards implicit in different types of stock market 
investments. So, Im satisfied he was made aware of the alternatives that were available to him. And Mr C had two meetings with Lloyds representatives so had an additional 
opportunity prior to investing to discuss any concerns he may have had. 
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower than medium risk options available 
to Mr C at the time that could have potentially offered him better returns than savings. But 
my role isnt to re-visit the advice that he was given and what other options were potentially 
available to him. Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given to Mr C was 
suitable for him at the time and as identified prior to the investment and whether it was 
sufficiently explained to him. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont find that the advice given to Mr C was unsuitable for him bearing in mind 
his personal and financial circumstances, his attitude to risk and his investment 
requirements. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
No doubt Mr C will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman