DRN-3175882
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, which was repayable over 15 years. Shawbrook is therefore liable for 
the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates 
to the installer misleading Mr and Mrs T into believing that the panels would be self-funding, 
which they werent.
Mr and Mrs T paid off a large part of the loan in 2016 using a part of a mortgage advance. 
Theyve provided evidence that the mortgage was used to pay off part of the loan, albeit 
there remained an outstanding balance on the loan which wasnt settled until sometime later. 
They did this to reduce the amount of interest they paid on the loan, but as a result paid 
and/or are still paying interest on that part of the mortgage, which they otherwise wouldnt 
have borrowed and was repayable over a ten-year term. 
Shawbrook upheld Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and made an offer of settlement. This 
effectively made the solar panels self-funding over the term of the loan  so that what Mr and 
Mrs T paid for their loan was no more than the benefits theyd receive from the solar panels 
over the 15-year loan term. Mr and Mrs T felt this was, in principle, a fair way to put things 
right. But they rejected the offer because it did not redress the additional losses theyd 
incurred and would incur by taking out the additional borrowing on their mortgage in order to 
pay off part of the Shawbrook loan.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
costs of the additional mortgage borrowing that was used to pay off part of the Shawbrook 
loan should be included in the offer of settlement. Although Shawbrook was given an 
opportunity to do this, Shawbrook wasnt convinced that the mortgage was used to pay off 
the loan. Despite being provided with evidence showing it was, Shawbrook has not, within a 
reasonable timeframe, made an updated offer in line with what the adjudicator 
recommended. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook upheld the complaint as if there was a misrepresentation. So Im happy to accept 
that there was. 
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because Shawbrook has accepted that 
a misrepresentation took place. This means that Shawbrook should put things right. That 
includes making provision for the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs T in taking additional 
mortgage borrowing in order to pay off £7,500 of the Shawbrook loan, which shows on the 
loan statement as being received by Shawbrook on 28 December 2016.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs T 
from the solar panels over the 15-year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs T are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. 
Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then 
the calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs T by way of explanation. 
Because Mr and Mrs T have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
Because Mr and Mrs T settled the loan by refinancing through their mortgage, and they have 
supplied evidence of the refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs T paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs T receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs T paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs T receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs T first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman