DRN-2183182
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as 
Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in 2006. Mrs H and Mr H 
applied for the policy in a meeting, when they were also applying for a mortgage. The policy 
covered Mr H against accidents, sickness and unemployment and was cancelled in 2008.
Mrs H and Mr H say Santander didnt make it clear PPI was optional. They say they were 
told that insurance was required in order to have the mortgage accepted. They think 
Santander mis-sold the policy to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs H and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H and Mr Hs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. Here are my reasons:
Mrs H and Mr H say they were told MPPI was required in order to have their mortgage 
accepted. So, I have looked into this and considered whether Mrs H and Mr H had a 
choice to have the insurance when they were arranging their mortgage.
I have been able to read through the sales documentation that was used at the time of 
sale to give me an idea as to what more likely than not happened. I have been able to 
see a welcome letter and a schedule of insurance that would have been sent to Mrs H 
and Mr H. The welcome letter presents the MPPI policy as optional and also gives 
details on how to cancel the policy if needed. 
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs H and Mr H and Santander during the 
meeting. Its completely understandable that Mrs H and Mr Hs recollections are not 
detailed as the sale took place a number of years ago. And because of this and 
considering what I have seen in the sales documentation, I dont think the evidence is 
strong enough for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that PPI was an optional 
feature.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs H and Mr 
H or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Mr H. On looking at the information provided I think advice 
was given. And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr 
H.
I say this after considering Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although 
Mr H says he had 6 weeks of sick pay he could have relied upon, the MPPI policy would 
have paid out if he was made unemployed or if he was sick in addition to his means. 
Having the policy in place would mean Mrs H and Mr H could use any provisions they 
may have had to cover other expenses. I dont think Mr Hs means at the time are 
sufficient for me reasonably to say that he wouldnt have had a need for the policy. 
Mr H was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. It is 
unlikely Mrs H and Mr H needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear information on these terms, I 
dont think it would have put them off.
 
I cant be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed in a clear way, but even if 
Santander did, I dont think Mrs H and Mr H would have done anything differently for the 
same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman