DRN-3321716
The complaint
 Mr G is a sole trader and complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) caused delay and 
provided poor service to him when he applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
What happened
 In October 2020, Mr G applied to BOI for a £5,000 BBL. At the time, Mr G held a personal 
account with the bank that he used to operate his taxi business. 
In the months that followed, Mr G chased BOI to determine what progress had been made 
with his application. But BOI required Mr G to open a business current account so that in 
turn he could apply for the BBL. So, in March 2021, via their DocuSign process, BOI sent 
Mr G the appropriate application pack. 
Although Mr G completed the application form and returned it BOI, he did so by e-mail. But 
the bank told him the process had to be completed via DocuSign. Unfortunately, Mr G found 
the process difficult to navigate, and in an attempt to help, BOI gave him the option of 
completing a PDF version of the application form in branch. Mr G did so, and the completed 
form was submitted to BOI in April 2021.
BOI said their review of Mr Gs application raised some concerns and that meant, in line with 
their standard procedure, they needed to carry out additional checks - including verifying 
Mr Gs trading address. Following Mr Gs confirmation this was his home address, BOI 
requested a photo of Mr Gs taxi parked at the address, with the license plate visible. BOI 
also wanted to see Mr Gs taxi licence. 
Mr G did send the bank a photo of his taxi parked on the road. But BOI said it wasnt clear 
from the photo whether the taxi was actually parked outside Mr Gs home address for it to be 
satisfied that a link existed. BOI also said Mr G didnt provide his taxi licence as requested. 
So, BOI asked for further photographs that were more in keeping with their requirements. 
Unfortunately, Mr G found the process increasingly frustrating and, in his view, unnecessarily 
lengthy. He believed that despite providing the documents BOI requested, they kept 
reverting to ask for more which was causing delay. In relation to the banks request that the 
photo of his taxi be taken outside his home, Mr G said that it was, albeit it was not parked on 
his driveway. By declining to accept his photograph he said BOI were being pedantic and 
unreasonable. In July 2021, Mr G told BOI he no longer wished to proceed with his 
application.  
BOI didnt think they were responsible for any delays in the processing of Mr Gs application. 
They acknowledged receiving the PDF version of his application form in the middle of April 
2021. But they said the delay that followed resulted from having to wait for documents theyd 
asked Mr G to provide to help them fully consider his application. 
Mr G didnt agree with the banks position and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said: 
In line with the way the BBL Scheme operated, BOI had discretion to determine how 
they accepted applications. And since Mr G wasnt an existing business customer of 
BOI, they were free to require him, as they did, to enter into a business relationship 
with the bank by opening a business account. In particular, as through that process 
BOI were then able to complete the checks required under the Scheme, including 
Know Your Customer checks, and those for anti-money laundering and fraud.
It wasnt unreasonable to ask Mr G to provide information so that BOI could be 
certain he met the eligibility criteria for the business account and the BBL. And BOI 
couldnt progress his application because he didnt provide the documents the bank 
requested. 
The Scheme was designed to provide quick access to funds during the pandemic. 
Bearing in mind Mr G submitted his application in October 2020, and it remained 
outstanding in July 2021, with no obvious progress between November 2020 and 
February 2021, the application took longer to progress than was reasonable. 
BOIs delay inconvenienced Mr G who, because of certain health issues, was 
advised not to work during the pandemic. He had therefore to rely on his savings, 
which caused stress and worry. In the circumstances, as compensation BOI should 
pay Mr G £400. 
Neither Mr G nor BOI accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr G believed BOI has 
been let off lightly by our service. 
In BOIs case, they acknowledged that there may have been delays with Mr Gs application 
initially but that this arose from factors such as the pandemic and the high level of demand 
for BBLs, which disrupted their service.
That aside, BOI maintained their previous position. In other words, they argued that 
fundamentally Mr Gs application was prolonged because they needed him to open a 
business current account as a first step towards his BBL application and additional checks to 
determine his eligibility became necessary. They felt any ensuing delays were primarily 
caused by Mr G because not only did the bank have to wait for information it requested from 
him, Mr G also failed to provide information the bank thought necessary for it to be able to 
proceed with his application. 
 
As the case remained unresolved it has been referred to me for review and final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
At the heart of this case is whether there were any shortcomings in the way that BOI dealt 
with Mr Gs BBL application. In particular, whether they were responsible for delays in the 
processing of it.  
I start by saying that the investigator rightly pointed out that under the Scheme, lenders like 
BOI had some discretion to decide how they would accept BBL applications, both from new 
and existing customers. With that in mind, since Mr G had been operating his business 
through his personal account, BOI was entitled to require him to open a business current account in order to progress his BBL application. In that regard, I dont think the banks 
position was unreasonable, not least because through that process BOI were able to carry 
out the checks the investigator identified.  
Having looked closely at the timeline of Mr Gs application, it is not obvious that between 
November 2020 and April 2021 BOI were undertaking any checks to determine Mr Gs 
eligibility for the BBL because Mr G was not sent the appropriate application pack until 
March 2021. Such checks were therefore conducted later after Mr G returned the form - 
between April to July 2021, to which Ill return later. 
The timeline shows that after receiving Mr Gs initial application in October 2020, BOI did 
begin to process it. But their records include a note dated 30 October 2020 which says: 
unable to open loan account as existing account is personal and no confirmation of 
KYC [Know Your Customer] complete.
The note appears to indicate that in the circumstances BOI had concluded it couldnt open a 
BBL account for Mr G. But Ive seen no evidence they contacted Mr G to let him know the 
position. And although Mr G e-mailed BOI on 9 February 2021 and called them a little over a 
week later to chase progress of his application, it doesnt appear he was made aware of 
BOIs position. Ive not been able to identify any meaningful action by BOI to progress 
matters until 11 March 2021, when BOI issued an application pack to Mr G for a Business 
Current Account and BBL via DocuSign. 
I recognise that inevitably the pandemic would have affected the service BOI were able to 
provide to its customers. But a delay of that magnitude  by which I mean between 
November 2020 and March 2021 does seem unreasonable. 
Mr G acknowledges he had problems using DocuSign to complete and return the application 
form after receiving the pack from BOI. That was not the banks fault and I was pleased to 
see that after the bank helpfully steered Mr G towards one of its branches, he managed to 
complete and return the form in April 2021. That brings me therefore to the events that took 
place afterwards.  
BOI had concerns about Mr Gs application because, as theyve explained they considered it 
was high risk and therefore further checks needed to be carried out. To that end, BOI 
required some additional information from Mr G, which included a photograph of his taxi 
parked outside his house as well as his taxi licence and asked for that information in May 
2021. 
BOI were entitled to set their own criteria as to what evidence they required to help 
determine whether Mr Gs eligibility for the business current account and BBL was met. In 
the circumstances I dont think the evidence BOI asked for was unreasonable or unclear.  
Mr G did send the bank a photograph of his taxi. But it didnt comply with BOIs request. 
Indeed, based on the photo Ive seen its difficult to determine, for example whether the taxi 
was parked in front of his house. And nor is the licence plate visible. I appreciate that Mr G 
might feel the bank was being pedantic and that the information he did provide should have 
been sufficient for BOI to approve his application. Nonetheless, BOI had a responsibility to 
make sure, to their own satisfaction, that Mr G met the eligibility requirements for the 
business account and the BBL. When, therefore, the information wasnt provided to BOI as 
they required, I dont think it was unreasonable that the bank should have reverted to Mr G 
as it did to ask him to present the information again. 
It is not Mr Gs case that he was unclear what the bank needed.  His case primarily is that 
what BOI were asking for was unnecessary. But having not received the information the bank requested, I find it very difficult to conclude that BOI acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr G when they didnt continue processing his application whilst the information 
remained outstanding. Against that background, and whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I do 
not find that the bank was responsible for any delays between May and July 2021. 
In summary, although Im satisfied that there was no delay by BOI in processing Mr Gs BBL 
application between April and July 2021, I do not take the same view in respect of the period 
between November 2020 and March 2021. Ive not been persuaded that during that period 
BOI took any meaningful action to progress Mr Gs application. Im further satisfied Mr G was 
inconvenienced by that delay, not least by having to chase the bank to find out about the 
progress it was making. 
. 
Putting things right
 After considering this case, for the same reasons given by the investigator I think the £400 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  
My final decision
 For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to 
pay Mr G £400 In full and final settlement of this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman