DRN-3390741
The complaint
Mr H complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to respond to his initial request for a 
payment deferral, later declined his subsequent request and then placed his loan in default.
What happened
Mr H took a loan through BoS in June 2019. He maintained his monthly repayments without 
any difficulty until February 2020. Towards the end of March 2020, he called BoS. He told 
them he wanted to apply for a payment deferral as his income had been impacted by the 
global pandemic. Mr H also told BoS he would cancel his loan repayment direct debit as he 
knew he couldnt afford the repayment due at the end of March 2020. 
Mr H said BoS told him this wasnt a problem, but his call would need to be transferred to a 
different department. Unfortunately, the call transfer was unsuccessful. Mr H asked if he 
could make an online application. BoS told him this wasnt currently an option but would be 
available soon. They suggested he check their website regularly.
When the direct debit claim for Mr Hs loan repayment was rejected at the end of March 
2020, BoS transferred his loan to their collections department. BoS wrote to Mr H on 10 April 
2020 about the arrears. Mr H saw that their website now allowed online payment deferral 
applications, so he applied. But BoS declined his request. They said Mr H wasnt eligible 
because his loan was already in arrears.
BoS wrote to Mr H again on 22 April, and 12 May 2020. They then sent a default notice to 
him on 23 May. So, Mr H contacted BoS on 2 June 2020 to request a payment deferral 
again. But BoS again said he wasnt eligible because of the existing arrears. So, Mr H 
complained to BoS. 
BoS responded to Mr Hs complaint in September 2020. They didnt agree theyd done 
anything wrong. They also told Mr H that his loan had defaulted in August 2020. I 
understand BoS have since sold the debt to a third party.
Mr H wasnt happy with BoSs response to his complaint. He thought hed tried to do the 
right thing by requesting the payment deferral. He also confirmed hed made successful 
applications to other lenders. So, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He told us hed 
like BoS to retrospectively apply the payment deferral and remove all adverse information 
reported on his credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint. The adjudicator issued their view in 
September 2021. They didnt think BoS had treated Mr H fairly. Our adjudicator thought BoS 
should:
buy back the debt from the debt collection agency; and
apply the payment deferral to Mr Hs loan, back dating it to the date it was originally 
requested; and
remove any adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies; and
pay compensation to Mr H of £50.
In response to our adjudicators recommendations, BoS asked that Mr H provide details of 
his current income and expenditure. They said this was required in order to assess whether 
Mr H would still be able to afford to repay the loan in the event they buy it back. But Mr H 
hasnt yet provided the information or responded formally to our adjudicators view. 
BoS also havent formally responded to our adjudicators view. Theyve confirmed theyd like 
to help Mr H but continue to ask for more time to consider what support they can provide.
Given the time elapsed since our adjudicators view and as no formal agreement has been 
reached, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. Advance notice of these 
special measures had been provided to lenders albeit the full details werent available at the 
time of Mr Hs original call. But BoS shouldve been aware an announcement was expected.
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral. Im persuaded that Mr Hs financial 
difficulties were a direct consequence of the impact of the pandemic. His payment history 
prior to that showed no sign of difficulties.
BoSs file notes show that Mr H called them before his March loan repayment was due to 
request a payment holiday. So, BoS were on notice of what Mr H wanted and his 
circumstances. Hed also told them he was cancelling his direct debit because he couldnt 
afford the repayments. This was due to the financial impact of the global pandemic. 
It appears BoS were unsuccessful transferring Mr Hs call to the appropriate department. But 
despite having been informed of his situation, BoS issued arrears notices when his March 
repayment was rejected. So, when Mr H attempted to apply online for a payment deferral in 
April, BoS declined this as his loan was in arrears. 
I dont think BoS treated Mr H fairly here. Hed already told them about his situation and BoS 
shouldve acted appropriately. But they continued to write to Mr H about the arrears on his 
loan. When Mr H eventually spoke to BoS again in June 2020, they again declined his 
request for a payment deferral due to the arrears. However, I believe that had BoS acted 
proactively upon Mr Hs original enquiry, the arrears wouldnt have occurred. Details of his 
original call were in their file notes.
Having considered all the circumstances, I believe BoS shouldve agreed to retrospectively 
apply the payment holiday to Mr Hs loan and ensure no adverse information was reported.
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. Had BoS agreed the original 
payment deferral, and Mr Hs financial difficulties continued, he wouldve had the opportunity 
to apply for a further three-month deferral.
Ultimately, despite Mr Hs requests and subsequent complaint, I cant see that BoS provided 
much in terms of forbearance and support in his case. And the debt was ultimately defaulted 
and sold to a debt collection agency. 
I agree that BoS couldve done things better in Mr Hs case. And I do believe they need to 
act to put things right. So, I will address that in my decision. But before accepting my 
decision, Mr H needs to be aware that in the event hes unable to maintain his loan repayments going forward, adverse information may be reported on his credit file again. This 
information remains in place for six years. So, at the moment, the default BoS registered in 
August 2020 is expected to be removed from his credit file in August 2026. Should BoS 
remove this information and he later falls into arrears or defaults, any adverse information 
reported then will remain in place for six years from that point. 
I would also recommend that in the event Mr H accepts my decision, both he and BoS work 
proactively to agree a realistic repayment plan to ensure his loan is ultimately repaid without 
further difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc to:
buy back Mr Hs outstanding debt from the debt collection agency; and
apply the payment deferral, and a further three-month extension (if required) to Mr 
Hs loan, back dating it to the date it was originally requested; and
remove any adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies from the 
point he originally contacted them in March 2020; and
pay compensation to Mr H of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman