DRN-3028142
The complaint
Mr T1, on behalf of the estate of his father, Mr T2, complains that when Mr T2 passed away 
in 1993 M & G Securities Limited (M&G) failed to inform him, as executor of the estate, of 
one of Mr T2s investments. It was not until much later, in 2020, that M&G eventually told 
him about it. 
What happened
Mr T2 passed away in March 1993. As executor of the estate, Mr T1 was informed about 
several investments Mr T2 had held. These were sold at that time as part of the 
administration of the estate.
In 2020 M&G undertook a project looking at accounts for which thered been no contact for 
an extended period. The project identified a holding of Mr T2s that hadnt been notified to 
the estate after his death in 1993. It was 10,666 accumulation units in M&Gs OEIC 
Recovery Fund. These had originally been purchased in 1990 for £4,000 and had been 
valued at around £5,800 at the time of Mr T2s death. 
M&G apologised for the oversight but explained that the holding had continued to be actively 
managed over the course of the last 27 years and was worth just under £26,000 at the time 
of its response to Mr T1. It offered to pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience created by 
the need for Mr T1 to now distribute the monies.
Mr T1 didnt accept the offer. He noted that the holding had been worth around £36,000 in 
2018 and felt that M&G should make up the difference between this and the value achieved 
from the sale of the holding in July 2020. M&G noted Mr T1s comments but felt that it 
wouldnt be fair to choose with hindsight a date on which the holding might otherwise have 
been sold. But it did offer to agree to increase the compensation payment to £2,000. 
Mr T1 remained of the view that the higher value should be paid or, failing that, a refund be 
made of all the management fees deducted from the investment over the 27 years. 
He referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think that M&G was 
required to do anything else. He said that as all the other investments held by Mr T2 at the 
time of his death had been sold, it was most likely that the overlooked investment would also 
have been sold if the estate had been informed of it. 
That being so, the appropriate method of compensating the estate would be to make an 
award based on it having been deprived of the value of the holding since 1993. This would 
involve the payment of interest on the value of just under £5,800 at 8% simple. However, a 
calculation of the value as of 2020 on that basis showed that it wouldve been worth around 
£18,400. So, as the holding was actually worth significantly more, around £26,000, thered 
been no loss incurred by the estate.  
Mr T1 didnt accept this. He still felt that the estate had been deprived of the opportunity to 
sell the holding in 2018 when it was worth more. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that M&G failed the estate of Mr T1 by overlooking the Recovery Fund 
investment in 1993. It has acknowledged that the holdings existence shouldve been 
communicated to Mr T1 at that time alongside details of all Mr T2s other holdings. So, it only 
remains for me to decide what represents a fair way of compensating the estate for the 
mistake. 
The approach we would normally take when an errors been identified is to consider what 
would most likely have happened but for the error. So, in this case, what do we think 
wouldve happened if M&G had correctly provided details of the Recovery Fund investment 
to Mr T1 in 1993 alongside the other investments?
Mr T1 has told us that all Mr T2s other investments were sold in 1993. So, it seems 
reasonable to conclude that the Recovery Fund holding would also have been sold then. As 
noted, that sale wouldve generated around £5,800. That means that M&Gs error has 
deprived the estate of that sum since 1993. The investigator explained that in such 
circumstances, where an error has caused deprivation of money, our usual approach is to 
direct the business to pay interest on the sum in question at a rate of 8% simple per year  
the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts  for the period of deprivation.  
As the investigator noted, in this case that would mean a sum of around £18,300 was due to 
the estate. But the investment was worth much more than that when it was sold in July 2020 
 just under £26,000  so that means there hasnt been a loss to the estate. Even if the 
charges applied by M&G for the management of the investment were deducted, it would still 
be a greater sum than an award made for being deprived of the money.
I recognise that Mr T1s argument is that, while the above may be technically correct, its 
nevertheless the case that if M&G had carried out its project two years earlier in 2018, he 
wouldve been alerted to the investment at that time and sold it for significantly more.
I do understand why he feels that way. I accept that if the mistake had been discovered 
earlier then a higher sale price may well have been achieved. But if M&G had not made the 
mistake at all, which is the scenario that I must consider, the investment wouldnt have been 
in place in 2018 to be sold, or in 2020, or at any other time. So, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to make an award using an arbitrary sale date selected solely by way of hindsight.
I note M&Gs offer of £2,000 to compensate for the distress an inconvenience caused by its 
error. Im not able to direct an award to a representative, as Mr T1 is here, or an estate. So, 
Mr T1 will need to liaise directly with M&G to arrange payment of the £2,000, if its not been 
paid already. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
James HarrisOmbudsman