DRN-2953794
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, trading as W, complain about the decision of 
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to decline their claim for business interruption 
insurance losses incurred as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a commercial insurance policy in part underwritten by China Taiping. In 
March 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs business, W, began to suffer losses as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. W was not a business that was specifically required to close as a 
result of the Governments measures. But Mr and Mrs B said that they suffered a downturn 
in business. 
Mr and Mrs B claimed under the policy, but China Taiping declined the claim. It said, the 
core business interruption cover responded to situations where property had been damaged 
and this was not the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. China Taiping did say that there 
was an extension to this area that provided cover in relation to diseases  but that this 
required the disease to have occurred at the insured premises. And as Mr and Mrs B hadnt 
suggested that Ws business had been interrupted by any such occurrence, this cover didnt 
apply to the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. They felt they had 
taken out business interruption insurance and that it should respond to the claim. However, 
our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the cover 
provided was limited to certain situations and that China Taipings decision was in line with 
what the policy provided. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, saying COVID-19 was present in 
lots of locations and as there was limited testing available in March 2020 they were unable to 
show it was at Ws premises. So their complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact that the pandemic has had on 
Mr and Mrs B and their business. But I dont consider this complaint should be upheld, 
largely for the same reasons as the Investigator set out in his opinion.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if China Taiping have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
The core business interruption cover of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, along with a number of the 
extensions to this, provides cover where business has been interrupted as a result of 
damage  either to the property owned by the business or elsewhere. Whilst I appreciate the 
pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to 
property which has led to an interruption of Mr and Mrs Bs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of this claim. And I think 
China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr and Mrs Bs claim under this 
area of cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that 
provides cover where a disease has led to the interruption. But this requires the disease to 
have occurred on the insured premises. The term says that it provides cover for losses 
sustained in consequence of:
the occurrence at the premises of any outbreak of a human infectious or contagious 
disease other than acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related 
condition
COVID-19 is a human infectious or contagious disease, and is not related to AIDS. However, 
Mr and Mrs B still need to show that it more likely than not occurred on Ws premises. I 
appreciate that there might be some difficulties with evidencing this, given the lack of testing. 
But it is for Mr and Mrs B to evidence they have a valid claim. And other than suggesting it 
must have been at Ws premises because it was in lots of other locations, Mr and Mrs B 
have provided very little evidence to support this. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that they suffered from symptoms themselves, but these comments 
have only been made to this service recently, rather than at an early stage of the claims 
process. All of their previous testimony was in relation to the downturn in business they 
suffered as a result of the wider circumstances around the pandemic. And they havent 
provided any additional evidence to support them having sustained COVID-19.
So, based on the evidence provided, I am unable to say it is more likely than not that Ws 
business was interrupted as a result of COVID-19 having occurred on Ws premises. And so 
I dont consider China Taiping acted unfairly or unreasonably when declining Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim under this extension either. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means China Taiping should have met Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I know this decision 
will be disappointing for them, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of 
why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman