DRN-3031304
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint.And they said that because HSBC told 
us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than 50% of what they paid, HSBC 
didnt need to pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided HSBC didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs B about the commission it received - so HSBC doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. While neither party has been able to supply documents from the 
time of sale given that over 20 years have passed since then, HSBC has said that PPI 
was not compulsory. Mr and Mrs B havent suggested that the policy was added without 
their knowledge or consent, only that it did not meet their needs. 
As the type of sale is not clear I have treated this case as if HSBC recommended the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs B. This holds HSBC to higher standards. So it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example 
Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the cover and they didnt have any means to fall back on 
so they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr B says he had a medical condition some 
time before the policy was taken out he did not respond to further queries made about 
this. There is no evidence that his condition caused him to take significant time off work 
or that it was still troubling him at the time of sale. Mrs B did not have any pre-existing 
medical conditions. Mrs B was self-employed, but this did not affect her ability to make 
an unemployment claim. So I dont think it was wrong for HSBC to have recommended it. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs B as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
have provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
HSBC doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs B should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: HSBC failed to tell Mr and Mrs B about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, HSBC has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how HSBC has worked this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Bs case 
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think HSBC needed to tell Mr and Mrs B about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think HSBC treated Mr 
and Mrs B unfairly. 
This means HSBC doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAnd because Ive decided that HSBC UK Bank PLC didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman