DRN-1466360
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement by Marshall Motor Group Ltd 
(MMG).
What happened
In May 2016 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with MMG. 
He thought he was entering into a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP). He says he was 
persuaded that this was the case because of the discussions hed had with the salesman. 
But he was subsequently disappointed to discover that he had in fact entered into a Fixed 
Sum Loan agreement with MMG. This loan didnt allow him to voluntary terminate the 
agreement, so he complained to MMG.
MMG said the agreement Mr O had entered had the features of a PCP. This included a 
lower monthly payment, a balloon payment at the end of the agreement, restricted mileage 
and a guaranteed minimum future value. MMG said the pre contract credit information 
provided to Mr O explained his options at the end of the agreement and that there was no 
reference to being able to voluntary terminate the agreement. It said it was difficult to know 
exactly what Mr O had discussed with the salesperson but that the credit agreement and 
supporting documentation set out the features and requirements of the agreement. It said 
that Mr O had signed the documents agreeing to be bound by the terms and it was therefore 
satisfied that the agreement hadnt been mis-sold to him.
Mr O disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at the 
documents which had been provided to Mr O before the agreement was signed, and thought 
it was fair for the agreement to be labelled a type of PCP. The investigator considered 
whether there had been a misrepresentation but didnt think voluntary termination rights had 
been discussed at the point of supply, so didnt think a misrepresentation had occurred.
Mr O disagreed and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. I know this will disappoint Mr O, so Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I have to 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to take it into 
account, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I understand that Mr O has a family member who had other PCP agreements where 
voluntary termination rights were given and then and the loan was secured on the vehicle. 
Thats not the case with this agreement, although I dont think MMG misrepresented it by 
referring to it as a PCP. This isnt how it is referred to in the credit agreement where its 
called a Fixed Sum Loan, but I think its fair to say that the key characteristics of a PCP are 
that the depreciation of the car, and not the full value, is being financed. A PCP usually has a 
smaller monthly payment and a larger balloon payment at the end. I think this is the case 
with the agreement that was provided to Mr O. I dont think voluntary termination rights are a 
necessary feature of a PCP. And whilst credit would usually be secured against the car, I 
can see that the fixed sum loan agreement explains that this isnt the case.
Ive looked at the pre contract documents. These explain the Right of Withdrawal but dont 
say anything about voluntary termination. The agreement clearly states that it is a Fixed Sum 
Loan.
I appreciate that contractual documents can be complex. However, I think the key features of 
the agreement are clear and I think its reasonable to expect Mr O to have read the 
documents and raised any queries before signing the agreement. 
Ive thought about whether the agreement was misrepresented. In order to find that there 
was a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that a false statement of fact was 
made which induced Mr O into entering the agreement.
There arent any notes of the discussions which took place between Mr O and the 
salesperson. And because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of exactly what was said. In 
circumstances like this I need to look at the contemporaneous documents to help decide 
whats most likely to have happened. I dont doubt that Mr O wouldve discussed things like 
the deposit, the monthly payments and excess mileage costs. But I dont think its likely that 
he specifically discussed voluntary termination rights. If he had, I would have expected him 
to query the absence of any mention of these in the agreement before he signed it. Based 
on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that there was a misrepresentation about voluntary 
termination.  
Ive also considered whether the future value of the car was misrepresented. I dont doubt 
that future values were discussed in general terms, but I dont think the dealership wouldve 
guaranteed that there would be equity in the car at any given point in the future. This is 
because there are so many factors outside the dealerships control which affect the future 
value of a car. So, although I think the future value of the car may have been discussed, Im 
not persuaded that the dealership wouldve said that it could sell the vehicle in 3- or 4-years 
time for a specific price, or that there was a guarantee of equity. Because of this, Im not 
persuaded that there was a misrepresentation about the future value of the car.
Taking all the available information into account, Im persuaded that the business provided 
an adequate explanation of the agreement. It has supported this with relevant 
documentation and a signed agreement. I understand that Mr O feels that hes been treated 
unfairly and that he didnt understand that there could be a difference between types of PCP 
agreement. But I think its clear that the documents provide an accurate reflection of the key 
features of the agreement. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect MMG to explain 
every type of finance agreement that might be available, but Im satisfied that it has 
adequately explained the agreement that Mr O entered into.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the agreement was mis-sold or that there has been a 
misrepresentation, so I wont be asking MMG to do anything. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman