DRN-4200000
The complaint
Mr L complains Lloyds Bank PLC closed his credit card without warning.
What happened
Mr L checked his account online and saw his credit card had been removed. Mr L checked 
his credit file and saw the credit card had been closed a few months prior.
Mr L complained to Lloyds as he didnt receive any notice of the closure and it had affected 
his credit score. Lloyds responded to say it wouldnt be reopening Mr Ls credit card as it had 
sent a letter to advise Mr L of the closure. Lloyds said Mr L hadnt used the card since 2020.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. The investigator was persuaded 
Lloyds had sent a letter notifying Mr L he needed to use the card or it would be closed.
The investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong, and Lloyds had said Mr L 
could apply again for a credit card if he wanted to.
Mr L said hes temporarily out of the country, so post wasnt a good way to communicate 
with him. Mr L said theres no proof the letter was delivered.
Mr L also said he was notified, online, his debit card might be withdrawn if he didnt use it. 
Mr L saw this message and used his card. Mr L didnt know why Lloyds hadnt posted a 
message online for his credit card like it did for his debit card.
And Mr L didnt want to reapply for a credit card as he may not get accepted now his credit 
scores been reduced due to the closure. Mr L asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls said he hadnt used his credit card for some time. Lloyds says Mr L last used the card 
in February 2020 and paid it off in March 2020. I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to 
contact Mr L and ask if he still needed the credit card.
Lloyds has sent this service a template of the letter it sent Mr L. It says Mr L should use the 
credit card by a certain date or itll be closed. Mr L didnt use the card.
Ive also seen the notes from Lloyds which show a letter was sent in June 2022. Lloyds has 
Mr Ls correct address, and Im satisfied the letter was sent.
I accept theres no proof the letter was delivered, but the accepted approach is if theres 
proof the letter was posted then the letters considered delivered. Im satisfied Lloyds sent 
the letter so Im satisfied it can be considered delivered.
So I think Lloyds did notify Mr L his credit card was due to close, and he needed to take 
action if he wanted to avoid this closure. Its unfortunate Mr Ls credit score reduced 
following this closure, but I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong.
Mr L says there are better ways to communicate with him, including emails, texts and adding 
a message online. Mr L says Lloyds added an online message for his debit card.
But theres no obligation on Lloyds to communicate this way. I dont think Lloyds has done 
anything wrong by only sending Mr L a letter to notify him of his credit card closure.
I realise, in hindsight, another method of communication may have alerted Mr L to the 
impending closure. But, at the time, it doesnt seem Lloyds was aware Mr L was out of the 
country and post wouldnt be the best method.
I dont think Lloyds made a mistake in only sending a letter to Mr L about the impending 
closure, or in closing the credit card itself. Because of this, I wont be asking Lloyds to 
reopen Mr Ls credit card.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman