DRN-1562235
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that he was mis-sold the packaged bank accounts he took out 
with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Where I refer to Mr C making his case below, Im referring to 
the arguments his estates representative is making.
What happened
Mr C took out a fee free current account with Lloyds in February 1990.
Mr C took out a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) which incurred a monthly fee some 
time before September 2001.
He upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) which incurred a monthly fee in 
January 2005.
Mr C downgraded to a fee free current account in May 2008.
Mr C says that neither the SAVA nor the PAVA were suitable for him and they were mis-
sold.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Cs complaint and did not uphold his complaint. Mr C says 
that he does not agree and wants a full refund of all his fees with interest. So, the complaint 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
The sale of the SAVA some time before September 2001.
Its not known when the SAVA was taken out, but Lloyds has provided evidence that it must 
have been after 1997 as the product wasnt available before then. The earliest statements 
available show he had the SAVA in September 2001.
Ill firstly look at whether Mr C was aware the SAVA was optional and whether he was given 
a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that Mr C was aware that the SAVA was optional. I say this 
because he had previously had a fee free account and both Lloyds and other banks and 
financial institutions offered a variety of fee free bank accounts which were widely advertised 
in a competitive market. And Lloyds evidence shows that Mr C was experienced in financial 
matters including using bank accounts and taking out loans. So, if Mr C hadnt wanted the 
SAVA, I think he would have questioned what he was being offered and sought an 
alternative elsewhere.
Mr C says that there was nothing of interest to him in the SAVA at the time of sale so its 
obvious that he wouldnt have chosen to buy it. But the car breakdown cover was introduced 
into the SAVA well before 2001, and this seems to have been of interest to him according to 
Lloyds records of its discussion with him later in 2005. So, Im not able to say its more likely 
than not he had no reason to buy the SAVA before 2001 as I would have to if I were to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint on this point.
The sale was over twenty years ago, and I have no other evidence to suggest otherwise, so I 
think its more likely than not that Mr C was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the 
SAVA.
Mr C says Lloyds advised him to take out the SAVA, and Lloyds says it didnt. Im going to 
assume Lloyds did advise him as its to Mr Cs advantage and doesnt change the outcome 
of my decision. So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr C with enough information about it to make 
an informed choice. And in recommending the SAVA, it also needed to take adequate steps 
to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Cs circumstances at the time.
A SAVA sold before September 2001 cost £4 per month and contained a range of benefits 
including car breakdown cover, payment card protection, 90-day purchase protection and 
extended warranty. And it offered an automatic £50 fee free and interest free overdraft limit.
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mr C about the SAVA, but I think it 
was of interest to him. I say this because Mr C has told us he had a car and there was 
nothing about his circumstances that would have stopped him using the other benefits. So, I 
dont think I can reasonably say that the SAVA wasnt suitable for him or that the SAVA was 
mis-sold.
The sale of the PAVA in January 2005.
Mr C had had a SAVA with an overdraft facility for several years before he took out the 
PAVA. So, I think its more likely than not that he was familiar by then with the nature of a 
packaged bank account and what he was paying a fee for. And I think his interest in the 
SAVA and its suitability for him hadnt changed or he wouldnt have been interested in 
discussing the PAVA.
The PAVA in January 2005 cost £15 per month and contained a range of benefits including 
worldwide travel insurance, full AA car breakdown cover, home start and relay, mobile phone 
insurance, sentinel card protection, discounts on holidays and car purchases and a home 
shopping service. And it offered an automatic £250 fee free and interest free overdraft limit 
with preferential rates for overdrafts over the limit.Lloyds has provided a record of its assessment of Mr Cs needs and circumstances, which it 
did with him, and which records his understanding and interest in the PAVA. The record 
shows him having a particular interest in the car breakdown, home start and relay benefit 
which was only available with the PAVA. And he had a mobile phone. Lloyds has also 
provided evidence that he was consolidating his loans at the time, and although there was 
no evidence of financial hardship, I think he may have found the flexibility of the overdraft 
facility of interest too. 
There was nothing about his circumstances that prevented him from using the PAVA and he 
couldve cancelled the account at any time but didnt for several years.
So, I think Mr C found elements of the PAVA attractive. I dont think I can say the PAVA was 
unsuitable for him and I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in selling it to him.
Summary 
In summary, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in selling the SAVA or PAVA to Mr C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman