DRN-3276202
The complaint
Mr P complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under his 
travel insurance policy.
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr P held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The insurance covered Mr 
Ps declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
On 13 November 2019, Mr P emailed URV to say he wanted to make a claim under his 
travel insurance policy. He said he had injured his leg, right arm and face. Mr P says he 
stayed abroad longer than planned because of his injuries. 
Mr P subsequently submitted a claim with URV for costs equivalent to over £15,000 as a 
result of an accident which he said happened on 17 November 2019. URV asked for medical 
reports and receipts for the costs Mr P was claiming for. As these werent forthcoming, URV 
closed Mr Ps claim.
URV subsequently said it would be prepared to investigate the claim further if Mr P agreed to 
be interviewed. Mr P said he is medically unable to speak.  
Unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to the attention of our service. Our investigator didnt 
think URV had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances but Mr P didnt agree, so 
the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for Mr P to provide evidence in support of his claim, and URV is entitled to carry out 
reasonable investigations into the matter before accepting a claim. Id expect a policyholder 
to co-operate with an insurers reasonable requests in order to facilitate the payment of a 
claim. 
Mr P has provided an undated doctors note in support of his claim, as well as an undated x-
ray and photographs. The doctors note lacks any detail about what treatment Mr P received 
and whether he was considered fit to fly. Mr P hasnt provided any receipts for the treatment 
he received, or any breakdown of what that treatment was. Mr P has provided evidence to 
show that he returned to the UK on a later date than originally planned, but Ive seen no 
information to show that his return was delayed for medical reasons. 
Mr P says all but one of the costs he is claiming for were paid in cash, but he hasnt provided 
any evidence to demonstrate this other than copies of receipts for some money transfers to 
his family members. Two of these receipts are undated and one is dated 16 November 2019, 
which is before the date Mr P said on his claim form that the accident happened. 
Overall, I dont think the information which Mr P has provided demonstrates that he has a 
valid claim under his policy, so I dont think URV acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining 
his claim. 
URV said it would carry out further investigations into the claim if Mr P agreed to be 
interviewed. Mr P says he cant speak and that no-one in his household speaks English.
Ive seen three GP letters. The first, accompanied by Mr Ps medical records, says Mr P has 
no recorded difficulty communicating. The second says Mr P struggles to speak and the third 
says the GP could clearly appreciate his struggle on the phone and can confirm about his 
speech difficulty.
Im not persuaded, based on this evidence, that Mr P would be unable to participate in a 
verbal interview. Id expect URV to make reasonable adjustments for any difficulties Mr P 
has with speaking in any such interview, including allowing a representative of Mr P to 
attend. Im satisfied that Mr P does have access to an English-speaking representative, as 
his complaint has been brought to our service by such a representative on his behalf. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr P has been unwell, but I wont be directing URV to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman