DRN-4139395
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd rejected three payments and returned them to source, one 
of which hes yet to receive. Hed like the payment returned and compensation for the 
impact. 
What happened
On 25, 26 and 27 February 2022 Mr Ks Mother sent him three transfers, each of 4,000 
euros, from her account with a Russian bank, Ill call Bank S. 
Mr K contacted Revolut to query what happened with the payments  he couldnt see the 
latter two payments in his account and the funds for the first payment, Ill call Payment A, 
werent available. 
Revolut informed Mr K theyd look into the payments, and on 2 March 2022 they informed 
Mr K  along with all other customers whod recently transacted with Russia  that they 
werent accepting any payments from Russia. 
Mr K queried what was happening with his payments, and argued that theyd been received 
by Revolut prior to the implementation of their policy so asked why they hadnt been 
processed.
Revolut didnt explain why the payments were caught in the new policy, but advised Mr K 
that the payments had been rejected by them and returned to source on 14 March 2022. 
Mr Ks Mother received two of the payments into her account on 4 April 2022. But Payment 
A hadnt been received. Mr K contacted Revolut to query the location of Payment A on 
8 April 2022. Revolut advised theyd looked into the payment, and after Mr K contacted them 
again on 11 April 2022 said theyd raise it with the relevant team to establish whether the 
payment was stuck with an intermediary bank. 
However Payment A wasnt raised with a specialist team until 11 May 2022, and no contact 
was made between Revolut and the first intermediary bank, Ill call Bank B, where 
Payment A had first been sent. 
On 30 June 2022 Bank B informed Revolut that Payment A had been sent by them to 
another intermediary bank, Ill call Bank D. However Bank D couldnt send the funds to 
Bank S due to it being removed from the SWIFT payments system. 
Revolut updated Mr K on 1 July 2022 that the payment was stuck with Bank D, and they 
couldnt recall it due to financial sanctions imposed on Russia. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response so complained. Revolut looked into his 
complaint, but thought theyd acted fairly in following global sanctions. However, they 
thought that their investigation into what happened to the payments had taken too long and 
credited Mr K 200 euros as an apology.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complainant. Having done so they thought 
Revolut acted fairly in returning the payments back to source, however felt they should have 
started contacting Bank B much sooner  and on 11 April 2022 at the latest. They thought 
that Revoluts communication with Mr K was poor, and he was inconvenienced by this, and 
recommended Revolut pay Mr K £100.
Revolut havent responded. And Mr K didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In 
summary he said:
From the 14 March 2022 onwards he contacted Revolut several times about the 
missing payments.
Revolut misrepresented their actions in chasing the payments
They should have started their investigation on 23 March 2022
It should take five working days for the payments to be reversed
Theyve failed to comply with the FCAs principles
Hed like to be compensated the value of Payment A, 4,000 euros, plus interest, 
distress and inconvenience.
As Revolut and Mr K havent reached an agreement its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr K and 
Revolut have said before reaching my decision.
Reversing of payments
Ive firstly considered Revoluts decision to return the three payments to source. Revolut are 
strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. As part of these actions they need to ensure compliance with global sanction 
policies. 
In Revoluts explanation to Mr K they advised that all three payments were returned due to 
the new policy Revolut implemented on 2 March 2022, specifically rejecting any payments 
from Russia. 
Mr Ks queried how this policy can be implemented when the payments were sent to Revolut 
on 25, 26 and 27 February  the first of these payments was sent three working days prior to 
the implantation of the policy.
Ive considered Mr Ks argument, and Revoluts actions in returning all three payments. I 
appreciate this will disappoint him but Im satisfied Revoluts actions here were fair  whenever an international payment is received additional checks need to be completed. 
Revolut have explained that additional checks were required on any payments from Russia 
due to the implantation of new sanctions covering individuals and different industries. Mr Ks 
quite right that theres no suggestion he or his Mother are sanctioned individuals. Nor at the 
time was Bank S sanctioned. However, by the time these checks were completed Revolut 
had introduced a new policy to reject all transfers from Russia. I dont find the time the 
checks took to complete or the implementation of the policy to reject the funds unfair. 
Ive moved on to consider what happened to the payments after Revolut rejected them. Ive 
seen evidence from Revolut that Payment A was returned on 14 March 2022. Revolut have 
explained, much as on the payment arriving with them, that intermediary banks were 
required before the payment could reach Bank S. Firstly the payment was sent to Bank B. 
After completing their relevant checks Bank B would move the payment to Bank Ss 
intermediary bank, before the payment is finally sent to Bank S. Two of the payments 
successfully reached Bank S, however Payment A didnt. Its not clear why Payment A 
wasnt returned successfully  but this isnt something I can hold Revolut responsible for 
unless theres evidence they made an error here. Which I havent seen. From the SWIFT 
message conversations been Revolut and Bank B, I can see that Bank B confirmed on 
30 June 2022 that theyd successfully moved on the payment to Bank D  but Bank D 
couldnt return it as Bank S had been removed from the SWIFT payments system. 
Mr Ks argued that Revoluts failure to chase the payment until 11 May 2022 led to him and 
his Mother losing out  and the payment not being returned. So, hed like to be compensated 
the full value of the payment. Im afraid I cant agree with that assessment. Even if I conclude 
that Revolut misinformed Mr K and failed to chase Payment A when they should have done, 
it doesnt follow that the returned payment would have successfully reached Bank S. I say 
this, as I cant see how Revolut chasing Bank B sooner would have enabled Bank D to 
successfully return it to Bank S. 
Chasing of Payment A
Ive thought about the service Revolut provided in chasing Payment A and informing Mr K of 
their progress. I agree with Mr K here. The service provided wasnt what Id expect from 
Revolut, and they did misinform Mr K about actions they were going to take. Including on 
11 April 2022 when they told Mr K theyd contact Bank B to ask about where the payment 
was. Instead they didnt raise any query until 11 May 2022. A month later. On raising the 
payment however Revolut did keep Mr K accurately informed, and Im satisfied provided as 
much information as they could once Bank B updated them with the current status of the 
funds on 30 June 2022. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr K. And I think Revoluts failure to contact Bank B 
meant he was inconvenienced. If theyd contacted Bank B on 11 April 2022, when Id have 
expected them to, Mr K would have been updated much sooner. And known the reason for 
the delay in Payment A being returned. As Ive already explained, Im satisfied their failure 
hasnt caused him  or his Mother  to be without the funds. But he was caused 
inconvenience. I think as our investigator proposed, an £100 additional compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is I partially uphold this complaint and I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Mr K £100 compensation for the inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman