DRN-4226739
The complaint
Mr W has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) workmanship 
under his home care policy.
What happened
Mr W sold his property in November 2020. The new owner commenced court proceedings 
against Mr W in relation to responses which Mr W had provided in a property questionnaire 
during the sales process. The responses had indicated that the boiler was in good working 
order. The new owner alleged that this wasnt the case and that there was a gas leak at the 
property due to the state of the boiler. Mr W was faced with significant costs as a result.
Following these court proceedings, Mr W submitted a complaint to British Gas regarding its 
workmanship and servicing for the boiler under the relevant home care policy. British Gas 
didnt uphold the complaint and didnt agree that its engineers had been responsible for poor 
workmanship. Mr W therefore referred his complaint to this service.
The services investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She concluded that it was unlikely 
that British Gas was responsible for what had happened in this case. Mr W remained 
unhappy about the outcome of his complaint. The matter was therefore referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether the workmanship provided by British Gas to 
the boiler in Mr Ws previous property had been unfair or unreasonable. On the available 
evidence, Im unable to conclude that this is so, and I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. In 
reaching this conclusion, Ive considered the parties submissions as summarised below.
I firstly turn to Mr Ws submissions. In summary, his complaint is that British Gas carried out 
an unsafe and unqualified repair on the boiler. He said that this left him exposed to danger 
and subsequent costs following a court process. He said that as British Gas provided the 
boiler service under a home care policy, this should have left him in no doubt that all repair 
work was qualified and conducted through the correct procedure. He said it clearly was not. 
After the repairs were carried out, Mr W said that there was nothing for him to notice in terms 
of damage. He said that the last operation British Gas carried out was a gas test. He was 
then given a signed sheet to say that the boiler was safe to operate. 
Mr W considered that British Gass suggestion that the gas leak was caused by a water leak 
was a complete nonsense and that the timelines didnt coincide. He said that the relevant 
appliance would never have been installed where it could become a hazard to the boiler. In 
any event, he said that if there had been a water leak, it would have been British Gas 
responsibility and that if it had done that job properly, none of this would have happened. Mr 
W also described the way court proceedings were brought against him by the purchaser of 
his property, and he felt that this had been unfair.
In conclusion, Mr W said that hed done absolutely nothing wrong but was now many 
thousands of pounds out of pocket and been exposed to potentially life ending repairs. He 
said that this was unacceptable.
I now turn to British Gas submissions. It didnt agree that there were any failings in respect 
of the workmanship of its engineers and it didnt accept liability for the costs Mr W incurred 
following the legal claim. It accepted however that the relevant property had been covered 
by the British Gas home care insurance policy from March 2017 until the sale of the property 
by Mr W in November 2020.
In its final response letter, British Gas repeated the events following the sale of Mr Ws 
property. Following the sale of the property, Mr Ws conveyancing solicitor advised that the 
new owner had found issues with the boiler, although Mr W said he had reason to believe 
that it was in good working order. It also related Mr Ws response to the court proceedings 
and to evidence including photographs provided by the new owner of an alleged sub-
standard repair. 
British Gas said it was only made aware of the concerns when Mr W contacted it in August 
2022. It considered that the photographs indicated damage from previous water leaks. 
British Gas said that the leaks were not caused by British Gas and posed no issue to the 
functionality of the boiler. It said it replaced the burner seal in May 2017 and considered that 
the failing of the previous seal would have caused some corrosion and rust inside the boiler 
and, as the corrosion in the photos did not look recent, it was possible that the marks were 
from that leak in 2017. It said that the silicone visible in the photographs wasnt an approved 
or recommended method of sealing the burner and under no circumstance would silicone be 
used by our engineers. It said that the safety readings and records showed that the boiler 
was operating safely. It said that there were also no reports made of any safety concerns 
while cover was in place. 
British Gas said that the new owners contractor wasnt specific about the source of the gas 
leak. Whilst they reported that fumes were spilling from the burner seal, and that this was 
possibly due to the use of silicone, it said that it would have expected to see more damage 
inside the boiler if that was the case. It said that the report also didn't explain why the boiler 
was replaced rather than repaired. It also noted that it wasnt asked to provide Mr W with any 
information or support in relation to the court process against him and didnt think it was 
something it could be held accountable for. It considered that the escalated costs were as a 
result of failure by Mr W to respond to the court process in a timely manner, for which it 
couldnt be held responsible.
Finally, British Gas said that it didnt carry out the annual service for the 2020/2021 as the 
policy was cancelled mid-agreement. Prior to this and during the Covid-19 pandemic, it said 
it was prevented from carrying out non-essential work, so it said it would refund the cost of 
the relevant annual service being £65.
Having considered all of the available evidence and the parties submissions, I will now 
provide the reasons why Im unable to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Unfortunately, the evidence 
is inconclusive as to the cause of the gas leak. As the damage took place some years ago 
and Mr W only made a complaint against British Gas quite some time after the proceedings 
were taken against him, any causal link would be weak. I cant therefore say that the leak 
was caused by anything which British Gas did or didnt do.
I consider that due to the timescales involved, there were ample opportunities for intervening 
events to have caused the leak, including during the property sales process. I cant say that 
on the balance of probabilities, such events were due to repairs or services carried out by 
British Gas. Ive seen comprehensive job notes which list the work carried out by British Gas engineers on a number of dates between April 2017 and November 2019. None of these 
indicate any outstanding concerns or leaks prior to the property sale in November 2020. 
Indeed, Mr W confirms that he wasnt aware of any.
I note that the purchasers contractor thought that it was use of a sealant on the heat 
exchanger seal which caused the gas leak. Unfortunately for Mr W however, the notes of 
visits give no indication that sealant was used. Im persuaded by British Gas evidence that it 
wouldnt consider this to be acceptable practice and its unlikely that this work was carried 
out by British Gas. I note that a new burner seal was installed in May 2017. I agree with our 
investigator here that the installation of a new and approved part by British Gas would 
indicate that the use of a sealant wouldnt have been required at the time and was unlikely 
have been applied by British Gas. Im therefore satisfied that use of silicone is not a method 
British Gas engineers use, and the job reports dont support this contention.
British Gas thought the rust could have been caused by a water leak, details of which were 
recorded in the British Gas job notes in April 2017. There is no conclusive evidence to 
support this theory either. However, again there have been other opportunities for 
intervening events to have resulted in damage, for example during the sales process. In 
summary, the last visit from British Gas was in November 2019, and so this was a year 
before the problems became apparent. It's therefore hard to draw a link between British Gas 
involvement and the problems which later arose. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr W as to the problems which hes faced, I cant say that the 
problems were caused by British Gas. I appreciate that Mr W may not have been aware of 
any boiler problems when he completed the relevant property questionnaire which was 
referenced in court proceedings. I therefore appreciate that this decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W. Unfortunately for Mr W however, I consider it unlikely that British 
Gas are responsible for what has happened, and I wont be requiring it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman