DRN-2888379
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)
has declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr B has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
  
What happened
Mr B bought a house in 2014 and took out home insurance with RSA. In 2018 he made a 
claim after he noticed damage to his garage. RSA appointed a loss adjuster who inspected 
the damage. They didnt think it was caused by subsidence.
Mr B took advice from a specialist groundwork contractor who Ill call A. In summary, A 
thought there was subsidence related damage.
The loss adjuster accepted the garage had been damaged by subsidence. But they said the 
claim wasnt covered because the damage resulted from faulty design and inadequate 
foundations  both of which are policy exclusions. They said the foundation wasnt deep 
enough to take into account the made ground beneath the garage or the nearby 
embankment. The loss adjuster said the problem was longstanding and began prior to Mr B 
owning the property.
Mr B complained to RSA. It was satisfied the loss adjusters response was a fair one. Mr B 
referred this complaint to our service, where an investigator considered it. She thought it was 
reasonable for RSA to decline the claim for inadequate foundations, given the site conditions 
and good building practice and regulation. Mr B disagreed for a number of reasons. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. An agreement wasnt reached, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made a number of points. Though Ive thought about them all before 
reaching my decision, I wont respond to each of them individually. Ill focus on the points 
which I think are key to understanding and resolving this complaint fairly.
The policy covers damage caused to the buildings by subsidence. But not:
damage caused by inadequate foundations
damage arising from or consisting of faulty workmanship, design or materials
After it received As report, RSA accepted the garage damage was caused by subsidence. It 
relied on the two policy exclusions above to decline the claim. In summary, thats because 
RSA considered the garage foundation to be too shallow for the site conditions.
Mr B disagreed  he thought the foundation was consistent with the relevant guidance of the 
time and the damage had only occurred after the structure had stood for a significant period 
of time, indicating the foundation depth wasnt the cause of the problem.
I understand theres a broader ground movement problem at Mr Bs property beyond the 
damage to the garage. Most of the property boundary, including the embankment, is much 
higher than the surrounding area. A has described a landslip problem which has led to 
instability and a loss of ground material from Mr Bs property. A has recommended solutions 
to stabilise the material.
The policy covers subsidence and landslip damage to the buildings, including the garage, 
subject to exclusions. It doesnt cover these movement problems if they affect the ground or 
things like driveways and fences unless the house is suffering from the same problem. 
Mr Bs house isnt suffering from these problems. Because of that I think its reasonable for 
the focus of the complaint to be on the garage.
Ill first consider what caused the subsidence problem to the garage to decide if the 
exclusions raised by RSA are relevant.
What caused the subsidence problem?
A carried out an inspection and ground investigation. In summary, they said:
The garage foundation is 200mm deep, with varying ground conditions below it.
The left side of the foundation sits on compacted clay, which provides a solid 
foundation.
The right side sits on clay mixed with fill material made up of soil, bricks, concrete 
and stone cobbles described as less stable although compacted material.
The foundation materials are normal and suitable for the garage.
The change of material below ground coincides with the damage in the garage.
The garage floor has been affected by subsidence in the area of the fill material
Movement and damage to the garage is due to the mix of materials under the left 
side of the floor  and is consistent with the loss support caused by the materials.
The loss adjuster carried out an inspection and didnt identify any subsidence. RSA has 
since accepted theres a subsidence problem, based on As report. So I havent been 
persuaded by the findings from the inspection. The loss adjuster accepted the findings of As 
ground investigation and didnt carry out any tests of its own or further inspections.
 
The loss adjuster said the fill material, also known as made ground, wasnt suitable to build 
the garage on. And building close to an embankment could cause instability of the 
foundations. It didnt think a foundation depth of 200mm was sufficient to cope with these 
site conditions and the foundation should have gone deeper than the made ground and 
embankment. It considered the movement of the garage was caused by consolidation of the 
made ground and instability of the embankment.
The loss adjuster and A both concluded the fill material caused subsidence. They broadly 
agreed the material had consolidated and, as a result, support for the left side of the garage 
had reduced, causing damage. Because of this agreement between experts, Im persuaded its likely the fill material is the dominant cause of the subsidence problem to the garage. 
Because of this, Im satisfied the exclusions raised by RSA are relevant.
A said drainage issues and a combination of rainwater and drying out recently had led to 
movement. But A was clear in their report that this was a separate issue to the garage and 
was related to the broader landslip problem.
RSA considered the nearby embankment had contributed to the garage damage. The 
photos clearly show how close to the embankment the garage is, so I accept that may be a 
contributing factor to the problem.
Ive next considered whether the evidence supports RSAs view that the foundation was too 
shallow  and the two policy exclusions apply.
Was the foundation inadequate or defective?
To decide this point, I think its fair to consider the relevant regulations and standards at the 
time the garage was built  and whether they were followed.
Its unclear exactly when it was built but it seems to be accepted by Mr B and RSA that its 
likely to be in the early to mid 1980s. Much of the dispute has been about what the relevant 
standards were then.
Mr B has said Building Regulations didnt apply to his garage because it was a permitted 
development and due to its particular form of construction. RSA seems to have accepted 
that. But it says any building must comply with good working practices and a minimum level 
of competency, even if Building Regulations didnt apply.
In RSAs view, that includes consideration of the site conditions below and around the 
structure and taking into account the kind of guidance found in regulations and similar 
reference materials. Its provided evidence of regulation and guidance from around the time 
the garage was built to support that view. Ill summarise the relevant points:
Building Regulations from 1965 and 1985 say a foundation should be:
oBuilt in a manner that doesnt cause any settlement or other movement that 
would impair stability or cause damage to the structure.
oThis will be achieved if there is no made ground, weaker subsoil or wide 
variation in the type of subsoil below the foundation
British Standards code of practice for foundations 1986 says steps should be taken in 
the design of the foundations to minimise damage resulting from:
oContinuing settlement of natural deposits or fill.
oDeterioration of made ground or fill.
Im satisfied it would be reasonable for a builder to take into account this kind of regulation 
and guidance. It may not have been required to comply with the regulation due to the nature 
of the garage. And with the uncertainty around when the garage was built, its unclear 
whether all of the points above would apply even if the garage was required to comply.
But the builder had a duty to build a structure, including the foundation, that was appropriate 
for the particular conditions of the site. Im persuaded the regulations and standards above 
provide a good guide to the kinds of things a builder ought to have taken into account and 
were representative of best practice around the time the garage was likely to have been 
built.RSA doesnt consider a 200mm deep foundation, sitting on up to 300mm of made ground, 
took the guidance above into account. A said the subsoil material was normal and suitable, 
whilst recognising it had led to a loss of support and damage to the garage.
I think the guidance is clear that laying a foundation on made or varying ground carries a 
significant risk. Building Regulations advise against it entirely. British Standards suggests 
extra care should be taken when doing so, but without specifying a foundation depth. Taking 
these guidance materials into account, I think its fair to say the advice at the relevant time 
amounted to not building on made ground at all  or building a deeper than normal 
foundation  to minimise the risk involved. As the foundation was 200mm deep, Im not 
persuaded it sufficiently took into account the available guidance.
RSA has also mentioned regulations and other guidance relating to the risk of the subsoil 
swelling, shrinking or freezing, as well as recommended foundation depths in a clay soil. Im 
not persuaded any of these points are relevant given the circumstances of Mr Bs case. Its 
also commented on the nearby embankment and suggested how the foundation ought to 
have been designed to take that into account. Im not persuaded the embankment was the 
main cause of the subsidence problem. But even if it was, or contributed to the problem, I 
dont think the regulations and guidance RSA has referenced support its suggestions.
Mr Bs provided guidance which he says applied to his garage at the relevant time. It sets 
out similar dimensions to those used in his garage foundation. Because of that, he considers 
the garage did meet suitable guidance of the time.
RSA says the guidance provided by Mr B amounts to extracts from various websites based 
on the opinion of the authors only. It considers the guidance provided by regulations and 
codes of practice more relevant.
Mr B says the guidance hes provided was applicable in the 1980s, but I couldnt see that 
timeframe specified in the information. Some of it was undated. Where dates were 
mentioned, 2008 was the earliest.
Its possible articles were created (and dated) recently to show older guidance  or the 
current guidance has remained the same since the 1980s. But it wasnt clear from the 
information provided that either of these possibilities were the case. And even if it was, I 
didnt see any reference to commonly used and reputable reference materials, like Building 
Regulations or British Standards. So its unclear what the guidance is based on. Im not 
satisfied the guidance Mr B provided is reflective of the regulations or standards likely to 
have been applicable around the time of construction. 
Because of this, Im satisfied RSA has shown the foundation was inadequate or defective 
and the two exclusions apply.
Mr B has said the garage has stood for many years without a problem and didnt show any 
signs of damage when he bought the property. He also said RSA had accepted a similar 
claim from a neighbour. So Ive considered whether it would be fair for RSA to rely on the 
exclusions to decline the claim.
Is it fair for RSA to rely on the exclusions?
I know Mr B feels strongly that his neighbours experience should form part of my 
consideration. But Im required to consider the evidence and circumstances particular to his 
complaint against RSA  not how RSA may have dealt with other customers. So I havent 
considered how RSA dealt with other claims.The claim was made in 2018 and the garage was thought to have been built in the early to 
mid 80s, so it was at least 30 years old at the time of the claim.
RSA considers the claim has arisen due to a longstanding problem with the garage and so it 
hasnt stood the test of time. Its pointed to a 2009 image of the front of the property, 
including the garage, from a map website. It says this shows movement of the garage.
Ive considered the photo RSA provided but I dont agree it shows movement or damage. 
The garage is set back from the street and the photo is of limited quality. I couldnt see 
cracking or signs of distortion as RSA says it does. So Im not persuaded its evidence of a 
long-term problem.
A said it was clear the garage was problematic previous to the sale, was longstanding, and 
ground movement appeared to have originated 5-10 years earlier. RSA agreed the problem 
was longstanding but thought it was likely to have been going on for much longer. Aside 
from the photo, which I havent been persuaded by, its unclear why RSA thinks the problem 
has been going on longer than A described  or how much longer. But overall the evidence 
indicates to me that the problem isnt recent and may have predated Mr B buying the 
property and taking out the RSA policy for it. As a result, Im not persuaded the garage has 
been shown to have stood the test of time.
Mr B has been clear throughout that there was no subsidence damage or an indication to 
him of a subsidence problem when he bought the property in 2014.
Mr B has provided evidence of a report carried out before he bought the property. RSA says 
its not a building survey and doesnt record the condition of the property. I agree. It appears 
to be a desktop assessment of the local ground conditions and the risk associated with 
various hazards, such as flooding or mining problems. It doesnt appear to have been written 
after an inspection or consideration of the condition of Mr Bs property specifically. It says the 
risk of natural ground subsidence is negligible  very low.
Whilst the report may have fulfilled the requirements to purchase the property, and doesnt 
highlight any subsidence problems to Mr B, I dont think its evidence Mr Bs property was 
free from a subsidence problem. And its not clear whether an assessment of natural ground 
subsidence would consider problems associated with fill material as thats a man made 
problem.
A said it had looked at the photos taken by the estate agent around the time Mr and Mrs B 
bought the property. It found no damage or signs of significant faults.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me Mr B was aware of an on-going or 
imminent subsidence problem or damage when he bought the property.
However, I havent seen a building survey or similar to show the condition and 
circumstances specific to Mr Bs property prior to purchase. Or any documents or 
consideration of the garage structure that might show it met, broadly complied with, or was 
exempt from relevant building standards. So whilst I accept Mr B wasnt aware of a problem, 
I dont think he received information to show the garage had been built to relevant and 
suitable standards and was problem free at the time of purchase.
Overall, Im satisfied the foundation was inadequate or defective and the movement problem 
appears to have been underway prior to Mr B owning the property  or the start of the policy. 
The policy doesnt cover this situation. And I havent seen evidence to persuade me it would 
be unfair to allow RSA to rely on the policy terms in these circumstances. For these reasons 
Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim.As report
As I noted above, RSAs inspection didnt find any evidence of subsidence. RSA didnt carry 
out any ground investigations or further inspections. It accepted As view that there was 
subsidence and its findings about the foundation depth and ground conditions  and relied 
on this information in order to decline the claim.
In any insurance claim, strictly the onus is on the policyholder to show their claim is covered 
by the policy  and that could involve them paying for an expert report. But in practice thats 
not usually necessary.
Its general good industry practice for the insurer to appoint a suitable expert to inspect 
potential subsidence damage  and carry out any investigations reasonably required to 
decide whether the claim is covered. In subsidence claims where the foundation depth and 
ground conditions are relevant to policy cover, that will commonly mean the insurer, via its 
loss adjuster, carrying out the kind of investigation A did.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster, but hasnt relied on the findings of their inspection to decline 
the claim. Its relied on As findings. Mr B was left to pay A to provide the kind of information 
Id expect the loss adjuster to have provided as part of a fair investigation into the claim. Im 
not persuaded thats in keeping with good practice  or that it treated Mr B fairly. To put that 
right, I consider RSA should pay Mr B the cost of As report - £550.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said he disagreed with my provisional decision and asked me to reconsider it. His 
response contained four main points, which Ill summarise:
He carried out reasonable checks prior to buying the property  and found no 
damage.
Building Regulations didnt apply to his garage  and the foundation depth was in 
keeping with the relevant standards.
The problem has occurred recently  after the garage had stood the test of time.
The policy covers subsidence, heave and landslip  without exclusions.
RSA asked me to reconsider my view that it should pay for As report.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the comments Mr B and RSA have made in response to my provisional 
decision. Both parties clearly feel strongly that my thinking on this complaint doesnt reach a 
fair outcome, though in relation to different points. And both have asked me to re-consider 
my findings. However, neither party has provided any new evidence which wasnt available 
to me when I reached my provisional decision.
Having taken into account everything said in the responses, I havent been persuaded to 
change my mind. Overall I remain satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim  and it 
would be fair for RSA to pay for the cost of As report  for the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision. Because of that I wont address each and every point individually, as 
many of them were addressed in my provisional decision. Instead Ill focus on anything that I 
think it would help to clarify or expand on to explain my decision.What does the policy cover?
The policy says the buildings are insured against loss or damage by a number of causes, 
including subsidence, heave or landslip.
The word buildings is defined in the policy to mean the main structures, like the house and 
garage, as well as minor structures, like driveways and fences. The definition doesnt include 
land, soil or the ground generally. So the policy doesnt cover damage to, or problems with, 
the ground or the embankment  only the structures built on it.
And under the subsidence/heave/landslip section theres an exclusion for these minor 
structures unless the house is damaged by the same problem at the same time. As the 
house hasnt been damaged in this way, it means the only cover potentially available to Mr B 
is for damage caused to the garage. Thats why I havent gone on to consider the broader 
ground movement problem at his property.
Further exclusions might apply to the garage, including the two noted above to do with 
inadequate foundations or faulty design, if RSA can show they apply. In a nutshell, thats 
what my consideration has focused on.
Policy exclusions
Its not disputed that the foundation is 200mm deep and built on made ground. Mr B 
maintains that Building Regulations didnt apply to his garage. I think RSA has accepted that. 
RSAs argument is that all structures ought to be built to a minimum level of competency and 
with good working practices followed. And around the time this garage was built, RSA 
considers guidance and regulation said that building on made or variable ground was a risk 
that should be mitigated against. It doesnt think a 200mm deep foundation achieved that.
Mr B has provided evidence to show various sources which recommend a foundation of 
similar dimensions to his. And As report described the foundation as normal and suitable. 
So he thinks the garage foundation has been built to appropriate standards.
The exclusions RSA have relied on to decline the claim are about whether the foundation 
was inadequate or of faulty design. To decide whether RSA has shown these exclusions 
apply, Ive considered what the relevant standards were  and whether they were met.
It seems to be accepted that the garage didnt need to comply with Building Regulations. So 
it would be unfair to hold the foundation strictly to those regulations. But I think they reflect 
prevailing views on the kinds of things a builder ought to consider at that time. And the 
British Standards code of practice for foundations is a reputable source of guidance and best 
practice. Both are clear that made or variable ground presents a risk that should be taken 
into account when designing the foundation. That would be the case even if the regulations 
were disregarded completely and only the British Standards were considered.
The recommendations Mr B has provided may not have applied at the relevant time. But 
even if they did, I couldnt see that they dealt with ground conditions. And Im satisfied thats 
an important consideration when designing a foundation. So its not clear to me how or if 
they factor in the kind of guidance found in the British Standards about the risk of made 
ground. And whilst A didnt find the foundation unusual or unsuitable, they did find the 
change of material coincided with the damage  and was the cause of the loss of support.Overall Im more persuaded by the guidance RSA considers relevant than the information 
Mr B provided. And I agree that a 200mm foundation is unlikely to mitigate against the risk of 
made or varying ground, given the findings of the experts.  So Im satisfied the foundation 
was inadequate or of faulty design.
Timing of the damage
Where an insurer has shown an exclusion applies, it means the claim isnt covered by the 
policy. Im satisfied thats the case here. But Im also required to consider whether allowing 
the insurer to rely on that exclusion would be fair. Usually it will be, because the exclusions 
are part of the contract the policyholder has agreed to. In cases like Mr Bs, I may depart 
from that if Im persuaded information obtained during the sale showed the foundation was 
adequate. For example, a completion certificate from Building Control might do that.
Whilst Mr B clearly took steps to check the condition of the property and the risks associated 
with the local area, I havent seen any information along these lines.
I accept Mr B wasnt aware of any damage or an on-going problem when he bought the 
property. But the expert evidence suggests the garage problem was longstanding and had 
begun prior to Mr B owning the property and insuring it with RSA.
For these reasons I dont think it would be fair to require RSA to accept the claim.
Mr B has described how some of the problems at his property are recent, but they appear to 
relate to issues to do with the embankment rather than the garage. For the reasons 
explained above, thats not something the policy covers at all and so its not something I 
consider relevant to the claim for garage.
I recognise Mr B feels I ought to take his neighbours claim into account. But I must consider 
the merits of his particular complaint based on its specific circumstances, as Ive done 
above. This principle works both ways. Had RSA declined a neighbours claim, I dont think it 
would be fair for RSA to rely on that in order to decline Mr Bs claim. Even where 
circumstances are similar, each case should be looked at on the strength of its own merits.
As report
RSA said the inspection was carried out by an experienced and qualified loss adjuster  and 
the decision to decline the claim based on that inspection was reviewed by a senior 
colleague. Both were satisfied from the visual inspection alone that the damage wasnt 
subsidence related. RSA questioned why it should pay for further investigations to support 
something that is already known.
It also pointed out that it declined the claim after the inspection. And after As report had 
been received, the claim remained declined  so the overall position hadnt changed.
I agree it wont always be necessary for an insurer to pay for investigations that go beyond a 
visual inspection. The extent of investigation necessary will depend on the particular 
circumstances of each individual claim, including which policy terms the insurer wishes to 
rely on. I accept the individuals involved in this claim are suitably experienced and qualified.
As RSA has pointed out, the inspection found no evidence of subsidence. Yet As report did 
 and RSA accepted that. Its position changed from declining the claim because there was 
no subsidence to declining it because subsidence had been caused by inadequate 
foundations and faulty design. I consider that an important difference, as it shifted the onus 
from Mr B to show there was an insured event, to RSA to show the exclusions applied.In order to fairly rely on these policy terms, its usual for an insurer to carry out an 
investigation to confirm the depth of the foundation and the material beneath it. Thats the 
investigation A carried out. Without that kind of evidence, its unlikely RSA would have been 
able to rely on the exclusions. Thats the main reason why I considered RSA had relied on 
As report. Because of that, Im satisfied it would be fair for RSA to pay for the report.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Pay £550 for As report
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman