DRN-3672800
The complaint
Mr O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt refunded a payment he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
Mr O says that on 13 and 14 March 2022 he received two calls from individuals who said 
they were from Monzo but he now knows were scammers. The callers discussed a recent 
registration for Apple Pay and a registration and subsequent order from a food delivery 
service  neither of which Mr O recognised. But Mr O says he saw a declined payment of 
around £94 on his app at the time. 
Mr O was told Monzo would send him a new card and his account needed be re-set. To re-
set the account Mr O was required to move all the funds in his Monzo pots to his current 
account. After hed done this, Mr O was told to delete the Monzo app. A few days later Mr O 
says he saw a payment to Apple for £1,450 he didnt recognise and reported the matter to 
Monzo. Mr O is unhappy that Monzo hasnt provided him with a refund and has referred to 
the difficulties the loss of these funds has caused him. He maintains he didnt approve the 
transaction.
Monzo say its unable to provide Mr O with a refund because he didnt take enough steps to 
check who he was speaking to or what he was being asked to do. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full 
together with interest. She was satisfied that Mr O didnt authorise the payment and that he 
wasnt alert to an obvious risk or significantly careless. The investigator concluded that Mr O 
thought he received a call from Monzo and unwittingly set up Apple Pay without realising it 
gave the fraudster access to his account before the unauthorised transaction was made. 
Mr O accepted the investigators findings and referred to further evidence that he said 
showed Monzo wasnt keeping his account secure. Monzo didnt agree and said:
- Mr O uses an Android device so there was no reason to set up Apple Pay. The app 
application was clear that Apple Pay was being set up and when Mr O approved the 
Apple Pay token he received a text message confirming Apple Pay was set up, giving 
Mr O an opportunity to recognise he was being scammed.
- There was no evidence of the fraudulent payments the scammer told Mr O about.
- Mr O reported fraud to Monzo in July 2021 and received a message which said that 
Monzo would never call to say his money wasnt safe or ask for his PIN. 
- Overall, Mr O acted with gross negligence by failing to keep his phone and card 
details secure and activating an Apple Pay token over the phone to someone 
claiming to be from Monzo. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely happened in the 
circumstances. The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Monzo can 
hold Mr O liable for the disputed payment if the evidence suggests that its more likely than 
not that he made it or authorised it. 
Its not enough for Monzo to say that the use of Apple Pay conclusively proves that the 
payment was authorised. Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given it cant hold 
Mr O liable and any such transaction must be regarded as unauthorised. So, whilst Monzo 
has provided technical evidence that shows the transaction was authenticated using Apple 
Pay, this doesnt mean Mr O consented to the payment. 
Monzo has explained to this service that Mr Os card details must have been compromised 
before the scam (perhaps because of a response to a phishing email or text) took place as 
they were used to set up Apple Pay. Theres no evidence to suggest Mr O willingly provided 
these details. To complete the Apple Pay set up process all Mr O was required to do was to 
approve the token. Monzo has provided evidence which shows that this approval happened 
during Mr Os first call with the scammer. 
Whilst I accept Mr O approved the Apple Pay token, Im not persuaded he did so 
intentionally. Mr O has explained that he saw a declined payment in his app at the time of 
the call when he was under the spell of a persuasive scammer and had concerns about the 
safety of his money. In the circumstances its understandable that he may not have been 
thinking clearly and entered his PIN without appreciating that in doing so he approved the 
token.   
Monzo has referred to the fact that Mr O received a text message to confirm that Apple Pay 
had been set up so should have been aware of this. But Im mindful of the fact that Mr O was 
on a call to a scammer at the time this happened and so was unlikely to see a text. 
On balance, whilst Mr O may have enabled the Apple Pay set-up, that doesnt mean he 
consented to the transaction being made via Apple Pay. This means Im persuaded the 
disputed transaction wasnt authorised.
I also dont think Mr O failed with intent or that he was grossly negligent. As Ive said above, 
Im satisfied that Mr O didnt approve the token intentionally and so he did so without 
realising that the safety of his account would be compromised. 
The standard for gross negligence is whether Mr O was significantly careless. So I need to 
consider whether Mr O acted well below the standard expected of a reasonable person or 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk. Given the circumstances Mr O has explained Im not 
satisfied this was the case. He received a call that he believed was from his bank from a 
closely spoofed number and transferred funds between pots before deleting his Monzo app. 
In doing so, Mr O thought he was protecting his funds. And given that Im satisfied Mr O 
approved the Apple Pay token inadvertently, it follows that I dont think he acted with gross 
negligence. 
Overall, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr O liable for the disputed 
transaction and to put things right it should refund the transaction and pay interest as set out 
below.
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund Mr O £1,450; 
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman