DRN-2985525
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) refusing to replace a hot 
water tank installed by a contractor under Mr and Mrs Ks home insurance policy. Mr and 
Mrs K believe the tank is faulty, so Soteria should replace the tank.
Soteria uses agents to administer its policies and assess claims. References to Soteria 
include these agents.
What happened
Following an escape of water in 2017, Mr and Mrs K had a new hot water tank installed. The 
cost wasnt covered by Soteria on the basis that Mr and Mrs Ks policy didnt cover the 
replacement of hot water tanks (the tank had been in place for many years). Mr and Mrs K 
had a further escape of water in 2018 and repairs, including a second new tank and re-
positioning of pipework and stop tap, were carried out by a contractor engaged by Soteria. 
The costs were met by Soteria. In 2019 there was a further escape of water, from the re-
positioned pipework. Mr and Mrs K were also unhappy that the re-positioned stop tap was in 
an inaccessible location they couldnt find without the assistance of the Fire Service.
Having three problems in successive years, Mr and Mrs K worried about further problems 
that might occur. They were also concerned at a split in the insulation around the tank, as 
well as a dent in the insulation, that they found in 2021. Worried this could mean that the 
inner tank was damaged, Mr and Mrs K contacted Soteria, asking that they replace the tank, 
as Mr and Mrs K believed that the damage was due to a manufacturing fault.
 
Soteria didnt agree that they should replace the tank, saying they told Mr and Mrs K in 2018 
that replacement of the tank wasnt covered by their policy and so it was their responsibility 
(not Soterias). Soteria added that if (as Mr and Mrs K believed) there was a manufacturing 
fault with the tank, it would be a matter for the manufacturer. If the damage had occurred in 
the two-year period after the tank was installed, that wouldnt relate to the claim settled in 
2018. Should the tank fail in the future then any damage caused would fall to be considered 
by Mr and Mrs Ks insurer at the time.
Unhappy at this response Mr and Mrs K complained to Soteria. In their final response letter 
Soteria didnt uphold the complaint. Soteria noted that their contractor agreed to install the 
replacement tank due to difficulties Mr and Mrs K were experiencing at the time. Soteria 
added that their contractor had inspected the tank and concluded that it was intact, the split 
in the insulation being cosmetic. Given the elapse of time since installation, Soteria said that 
any issues with the installation of the tank would have become apparent sooner. Soteria 
added that they had spoken to the tank manufacturer, who werent aware of any known 
defects and the split in the insulation wouldnt compromise its effectiveness.
Mr and Mrs K then complained to this service. They thought Soteria should replace the tank 
and also disputed that any damage had happened after installation. Mr and Mrs K were also 
worried about the stress that concern about the tank failing was causing them. Subsequent 
to making their complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs K told our investigator that a leak from 
the tank had been discovered, which they maintained was a result of a manufacturing or 
installation defect.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Soteria hadnt done anything wrong. 
He noted that there didnt appear to have been any issues with the tank until Mr and Mrs K 
noticed the crack in the insulation. The investigator also noted that Soterias contractor had 
inspected the tank and concluded that any damage was superficial (the leak reported by Mr 
and Mrs K happened subsequent to the inspection). On balance the investigator concluded 
that had the tank been damaged when installed any leak would have been occurred sooner.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They maintained that the damage to the tank and the leak shouldnt have 
occurred after two years and that it should be replaced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Soteria have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and 
Mrs K.
I would also want to re-assure Mr and Mrs K that Ive considered what they have told us 
about the impact that the succession of issues that they have had with their hot water tank 
have had on them. Particularly given their circumstances, I appreciate their concern about 
the possibility of a further incident of the kind theyve experienced.
The key part of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is that Soteria should replace the tank installed in 
2018. Mr and Mrs K believe that the tank is faulty and shouldnt have developed the issues 
(most recently the leak that occurred after they complained to this service).
 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs K first replaced their tank in 2017 and this wasnt the subject of a 
claim to Soteria. Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs K accept that replacement of the tank (in 
2018) similarly wouldnt have been covered and would have been their responsibility. But 
because of difficulties experienced at the time, Soteria agreed to cover the cost of the 
replacement tank. However, this was Soterias decision and because it wasnt something 
they were obliged to do under the policy, I dont think it means they should subsequently be 
responsible for issues that arose with the tank. Any more than they would have been 
responsible for the issues that arose with the first replacement tank installed in 2017
.  
Ive also considered that theres no indication of issues with the tank between its installation 
in 2018 and Mr and Mrs K noticing the damage in 2021, over two years later. If there was a 
latent defect at the time of installation, then I think it would have been highlighted sooner 
than it was.
 
Ive also considered that Soteria inspected the tank and concluded that while there was 
some damage to the insulation around the tank, this was cosmetic and didnt compromise 
the inner tank. So even had the damage been present when the tank was installed, it 
wouldnt have compromised its operation. I think it was fair and reasonable for Soteria to 
inspect the tank, even though it wasnt their responsibility under the policy.
Taking these points together, I dont think Soteria have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr and Mrs K. While the most recent leak occurred after Mr and Mrs K first 
complained to this service, I dont think it changes my view. If they have a current home 
insurance policy with Soteria (or another insurer, as the case may be) then Mr and Mrs K are free to make a claim under that policy for any damage that the leak may have caused, and 
for that claim to be considered under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman