DRN-3734871
The complaint
Ms C complains about how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled a claim 
made on her commercial motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
The named driver on Ms Cs policy had an accident whilst driving her company car. Ms C 
was unhappy that AIG tried to settle the claim as 50/50 split liability without fully investigating 
the claim. She was also unhappy that it didnt tell her the reasons for this and that this 
affected her personal injuries claim. 
AIG agreed that it had decided liability prematurely and hadnt communicated effectively with 
Ms C. It withdrew the split liability offer and was pursuing the settlement as non-fault. It 
apologised to Ms C. But Ms C was unhappy with this because of the stress and trouble AIG 
had caused her.   
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AIG should 
have told Ms C that it had accepted liability. He thought AIG had taken a year to put things 
right for Ms C. And so he thought an apology wasnt sufficient for the distress caused to her. 
He thought AIG should pay Ms C £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms C accepted this. AIG replied that it hadnt accepted liability, but it had offered a 50/50 
settlement to the other insurer on a without prejudice basis as it was one persons version of 
events against the others. It said it had told Ms C that this wouldnt affect her personal 
injuries claim. And so it thought it had communicated reasonably with Ms C. And it thought 
£750 compensation wasnt warranted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms C feels frustrated and disappointed by AIGs response to her 
complaint. Its now 18 months since the accident and, from what I can understand, liability 
has yet to be agreed. From what I can see, Ms C is taking the other driver to court and AIG 
is awaiting the outcome. 
Ms C said the other driver had hit her car in the rear. But the other driver said Ms C had 
reversed into her car. There was no CCTV footage available and no independent witnesses. 
And AIG said it was usual to settle such disputes as split liability. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Ms C the same as someone else in 
her position. 
AIG is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms C to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms C has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
From AIGs notes, I can see that it considered Ms Cs version of events and pressed the 
other insurer for an admission of liability. AIG sent the other insurer Ms Cs version of events 
and photographs taken at the scene and it asked for the other sides statement. The other 
insurer replied refusing liability but didnt provide the requested statement. AIG asked for a 
police report, but the police hadnt attended the accident, so no report was available. 
AIG requested CCTV footage from the local council. AIG warned Ms C that if the footage 
wasnt available then it would be one sides word against the others, and it would consider 
settling the claim as split liability. 
The council directed AIG to the police and CCTV footage wasnt available. AIGs engineer 
reviewed photographs of the damage to both cars for consistency. He thought Ms Cs car 
may have had other damage caused by her reversing into a bollard or something similar. 
This was put to Ms C and she said her car didnt have earlier damage. And she asked AIG 
not to offer split liability yet. 
A month later, AIG wrote to Ms C asking for her decision on its proposal to offer a split 
liability settlement. It then offered this to the other insurer on a without prejudice basis. Three 
months later, this offer was accepted. But I cant see that AIG then told Ms C this. 
When Ms C complained, AIG accepted that it had made its liability decision prematurely and 
didnt communicate its reasons for this effectively to Ms C. When a business makes a 
mistake, as AIG accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as 
far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
To put things right for Ms C, AIG withdrew its offer to settle the claim as split liability and its 
awaiting the outcome of Ms Cs court case to resolve the claim. I think this is fair and 
reasonable as Ms C can continue to pursue her personal injuries claim without this concern. 
But, like the Investigator, Im not satisfied that an apology is sufficient redress for the impact 
the premature settlement decision and poor communication had on Ms C. This is for the 
following reasons.
AIG hadnt received the requested statement from the other driver. The other insurer sent in 
a brief account and photographs of the damage to the cars. AIG pressed for the statement 
once. But then it didnt press any further. And so it relied on the insurers rebuttal to decide 
that it was one persons word against the others. 
AIG had relied on Ms Cs photographs showing that her car had been pushed over a white 
line to press the other insurer to accept liability. But I cant see that it obtained a response 
from the other insurer to this. The other drivers statement may not have changed AIGs 
decision, but I think this should have been obtained and considered. And so I think AIG 
didnt complete its investigation before it made its liability decision. I think this caused Ms C 
upset. 
Ms C had repeatedly told AIG that she wouldnt accept a split liability settlement. But it still 
made this offer to the other insurer to try and close the claim two months after the accident. 
The other insurer accepted this offer only after Ms C issued court proceedings. Ms C then 
asked AIG to withdraw its offer and to continue to investigate the claim. But it didnt do this 
until three months later. I think this caused Ms C considerable avoidable trouble and stress 
over a long period.  
AIG said it had warned Ms C that a split liability assessment may be the best possible 
outcome. And I agree that it did tell Ms C this in its emails. But I dont think AIG explained the reasons why it thought this was so and any risks it had identified if the matter were to go 
to court. So Im not satisfied that AIG explained its decision to Ms C as it should have. 
AIG apologised for its errors, but I dont think this goes far enough in the circumstances. Our 
Investigator recommended that AIG should pay Ms C £750 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. I think this is in keeping with our published guidance for the impact on the 
consumer when there has been considerable trouble and upset. So I think thats fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
I require American International Group UK Limited to pay Ms C £750 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
American International Group UK Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman