DRN-1696377
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Sunny provided to Mrs F between August and November 
2015. Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
loan 
start date  
date repaid 
instalments 
amount* highest 
monthly 
repayment
1 31/08/2015 30/12/2016 24 weeks 250 £87.60
2 13/09/2015 10/10/2015 24 weeks 100 £121.35
3 09/10/2015 12/10/2015 24 weeks 550 £308.35
4 18/11/2015 13/06/2017 24 weeks 600 £207.80
*highest monthly repayment shows the combined amount due where loans overlap
Mrs F said that Sunny didnt do proper checks before lending to her and she wasnt warned 
about the risks of late payment. Mrs F told us the loans led to her debt getting out of control 
and that she can no longer afford things she used to take for granted. 
Our adjudicator thought that it wasnt unfair for Sunny to have provided loans 1 and 2 but he 
said the repayment due when Mrs F took out loan 3 represented a significant proportion of 
Mrs Fs income. So there was a significant risk that Mrs F wouldnt have been able to meet 
her existing commitments without having to borrow again  making loan 3 (and any further 
loans) unsustainable for her. So our adjudicator said that Sunny shouldnt have provided 
loan 3 or loan 4 to Mrs F.
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mrs F could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs F. It asked her for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mrs Fs credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the information Mrs F told Sunny about her 
income and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about her financial situation, it wasnt 
wrong for Sunny to give her loans 1 and 2. It was early in the lending relationship and so 
I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As it appears that Mrs F hasnt 
raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 1 and 2, I dont 
think that I need to say more about these loans.  
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Fs case, Sunny should reasonably have seen that 
loan 3 was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided this loan. I say this because when she asked for loan 3 Sunny said it relied on information showing that Mrs Fs 
income was around £1,218. 
Mrs F was already paying for loans 1 and 2 when she took out loan 3. 
So Sunny ought to have realised that the combined repayment of around £308 that Mrs F 
would have to make over the course of each month when she took out loan 3 meant shed 
then be using around 25% of her monthly take home pay to meet the repayments due on all 
the Sunny loans she had running  and shed have to meet the contractual repayment 
schedule shed signed up to for around 6 months. This was such a significant proportion of 
her income each month that in reality, this loan, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for her. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs F repaid loan 2 in full the next day after taking out loan 3, 
and then she repaid loan 3 just three days after start. But Sunny couldnt have known shed 
do this or rely on it happening when it gave Mrs F loan 3. I think it shouldve realised that she 
was borrowing unsustainably  and this is borne out by the payment difficulties that Mrs F 
then had keeping up with the scheduled repayments on loan 1  which led to this loan being 
paid late.  
Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 3, or any further lending to Mrs F, given what it 
shouldve seen about her financial circumstances. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 and 4, not including anything it has already refunded. 
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs F which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date she originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mrs F the total of "A" plus "B".
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mrs Fs credit file for loans 3 and 4. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 I uphold Mrs Fs complaint about loans 3 and 4 and direct Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman