DRN-2027137
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his claim for water 
ingress due to storm damage.
What happened
Mr S had buildings insurance with RSA. He made a claim for damage to his roof and internal 
walls caused by water ingress following storm conditions. RSA appointed a surveyor to 
inspect the damage who reported that the water ingress was due to wear and tear. RSA 
declined the claims initially because it didnt think there had been a storm, and later because 
the damage was consistent with that caused over time due to wear and tear.
Mr S complained to RSA because he didnt think it had reached the correct conclusion about 
the cause of the damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He identified that there had been storm 
conditions around the time Mr S made his claim, but it was a dry storm and wouldnt have 
caused water ingress. Our investigator thought that the surveyors report was fair, and the 
photographs supported its conclusion that the damage was due to wear and tear.
Mr S didnt agree, although he didnt provide any further information or comments for 
consideration.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will disappoint Mr S, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr S will be aware that I must consider, first, whether there was a storm. RSA initially said 
there wasnt, but then agreed that wind speeds had exceeded the level that might 
reasonably be classed as a storm. Mr S didnt make the claim immediately after the storm 
conditions he reported, so Ive looked at the weather leading up to his claim. I can see that 
rainfall reached the wet storm definition and, a few days later, winds reached dry storm 
conditions. It seems that all parties agree there was a storm of some kind around the time of 
Mr Ss claim, so I see no reason to question this.
Ive gone on to look at the photos and reports, provided by both the surveyor and Mr Ss 
builder, to see whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm.
The photos show that Mr Ss roof had deteriorated such that rainwater was able to run down 
two channels, underneath the roof tiles, through the ceiling and to the downstairs rooms. 
There was no indication that any tiles had been completely dislodged, which one might 
reasonably expect to see with storm damage. I understand that Mr S reported to RSA that 
he hadnt done any work on his roof in 35 years, although an inspection five years earlier 
found it to be in good condition. I have no reason to doubt that. However, especially given 
the age of the roof, RSAs surveyor thought it was likely that the effect of wear and tear 
happening over the following five years wouldve become evident. So, based on the 
photographic evidence and the expert report, I dont think the damage is typical of that 
caused by a storm and I think its likely that the water ingress was due to gradual 
deterioration of the roof.
Inside his home, there was water damage to the walls, ceilings and flooring, but RSAs 
surveyor reported that the damage had been evident for some time. There were black marks 
around the water stains, cracks, and the walls and ceiling had been repaired in places. Mr S 
explained that the repairs were from an earlier leak coming from his bathroom. Again, I have 
no reason to doubt that. But whatever the cause, it seems more likely that the damage 
happened gradually over time. The experts report stated that the damage visible in the 
photos is consistent with the type of damage seen after ceilings, walls and flooring have 
been wet for some time. 
Mr Ss policy covers storm damage where the damage is wholly or mainly caused by the 
storm. And the policy excludes any damage which happened gradually over time, as the 
result of wear and tear or failure to maintain the building. As explained above, the damage 
isnt typical of that caused by a storm. While rain may have worked its way into Mr Ss home 
during a storm, the evidence suggests its more likely that the storm simply revealed the 
extent of the wear and tear already present. Therefore, I cant conclude that the storm was a 
one off event which caused the damage to the roof and subsequently the inside of Mr Ss 
home. 
In reaching my decision, I considered the statement provided by the builder who repaired Mr 
Ss roof. The builder concluded that unusual weather had damaged the roof, and rain 
coming in had damaged the walls, ceiling and floor. Ive thought carefully about this, but I 
dont think the statement goes far enough. Theres no additional evidence, such as 
photographs, and the builder doesnt give any reasons for the conclusion. So the statement 
hasnt persuaded me that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
In summary, Im satisfied that RSA investigated Mr Ss claim and reached a fair and 
reasonable decision to decline it because the evidence didnt indicate damage was caused 
by a one off storm.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman