DRN-4207331
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Wescot Credit Services Limited sent him the wrong settlement 
figures.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Wescot were acting as debt collectors for two debts that Mr B owed.
Mr B offered a total of £2,830 to partially settle the two accounts. Wescot referred this to the 
owner of the debts, who turned down the offer but said theyd accept a total of £4,940.48. 
Wescot confirmed this amount to Mr B a number of times by phone, letter, and email.
However, a Wescot staff member made an error when writing to Mr B on 29 July 2022. They 
accidentally put Mr Bs original offer (£2,830) as the settlement figure, when theyd meant to 
put down the debt owners counter-offer of £4,940.48.
Mr B accepted the debt owners counter-over and paid £4,940.48 to partially settle the 
accounts. But he later found the erroneous correspondence and complained. He feels that 
Wescot deliberately tricked him into paying more.
Wescot apologised and explained their mistake. They confirmed that Mr B had paid the 
correct offer of £4,940.48, and their staff member had simply made a mistake and used the 
wrong figures on 29 July. Theyve offered Mr B £200 compensation to put right the upset that 
their error caused.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought Wescots offer was fair. Mr B 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the records of the accounts, I can see that the debt owner did not accept 
Mr Bs original offer of £2,830. They said theyd accept £4,940.48. The correspondence of 
29 July 2022 was mistaken. Even if Mr B had paid £2,830 instead of £4,940.48, that would 
not have settled these accounts, because the debt owner never accepted that lower offer. 
He paid the correct amount by paying £4,940.48.
I have found no evidence which shows or substantiates that Wescot deliberately misled 
Mr B. The records are clear that the debt owner only accepted £4,940.48 and not £2,830. 
And aside from on 29 July 2022, Wescot otherwise clearly and consistently gave Mr B the 
correct settlement figures. As far as I can see, a staff member simply got mixed up on one 
occasion and put down one set of figures instead of the other. Its a relatively straightforward 
mistake to make.
As I mentioned above, I can see that Wescot otherwise made it clear what the correct figure 
was. I can see that Mr B was aware of the correct figure, as he paid the correct figure.
Just because Wescot gave Mr B the wrong figure once, it doesnt mean they should be held 
to that amount. For one thing, theyre only the debt collector here  they dont actually own 
the debts, so they couldnt force the debt owner to accept the lower figure anyway. More 
importantly, just because Wescot wrote down the wrong thing by accident, it doesnt follow 
that they have to then do the wrong thing. For example, if theyd accidentally written down a 
settlement figure that was too high, I wouldnt conclude that Mr B had to overpay the debt 
just because thats what was written down once. Similarly, just because they put down a 
figure that was too low here, it does not mean that they have to accept that overly-low figure. 
The right thing is for them to accept the correct figure  which here was £4,940.48.
Of course, I do understand that Wescot caused Mr B some real confusion and upset by 
accidentally writing down the wrong figure. In terms of putting that right, instead of telling 
businesses to do the wrong thing, we often tell them to pay compensation  to acknowledge 
their mistake and the impact it had. In terms of the amount of compensation, its worth 
bearing in mind that were not here to issue fines or to punish businesses. We have 
guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with 
those. Taking into account the impact this had on Mr B in terms of confusion and upset, 
I think Wescots offer of £200 is fair to put things right here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Wescot Credit Services Limited have made a fair 
offer to put things right in this case. They should pay Mr B the £200 they offered, if theyve 
not done so already. I do not make a further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman