The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Virgin Money Plc allowed him to go over his credit card limit. This has 
meant he has incurred interest and charges. And the cards promotional 0% interest rate has 
been withdrawn. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr R took out a credit card with Virgin with a promotional 0% interest offer on 
balance transfers and purchases. In October 2019, Mr R exceeded the credit cards limit, and 
incurred interest and charges. He also had the promotional 0% interest rate withdrawn. 
Mr R said Virgin shouldnt have allowed him to go over his credit limit. And that the additional 
interest and charges that have been applied are excessive for what was an accidental 
oversight which he said he quickly corrected.
Virgin said they would apply the promotional rate to any future purchases made by Mr R. 
 But they werent willing to refund the interest and charges theyd applied to his account or 
reinstate the cards promotional rate to Mr Rs existing credit.
Mr R wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Virgin had dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly. She didnt find that Virgin 
was responsible for Mr R going over his credit limit, and she was satisfied that 
the promotional rate was withdrawn in line with the account terms.
Mr R didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, or direct that they 
change their processes. That falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority. What I 
need to decide is whether Virgin acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr R. 
I have looked at the account terms and conditions as well as the information Mr R 
would have seen on the account statements about the promotional offer.
The terms and conditions say:
 If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit limit, 
we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement period. 
DRN-1929247When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the current standard interest rate 
that applies to that transaction. 
I can see the same wording was also clearly present on the online application form and 
included in Mr Rs monthly statements. And Mr R in making his application had agreed to 
these terms and conditions. So, I think the condition about what would happen should Mr R 
exceed his credit limit is clear and transparent and there to be read.
I can understand Mr Rs frustration as he thinks that Virgin allowed his account to go over its 
credit limit. And that they should have taken preventative measures, knowing the impact this 
would have on the promotional deal he had. But I dont think that Virgin was obliged to 
monitor Mr Rs use of the credit card, to make sure he didnt go over the limit. It was for Mr R 
to keep within the limit if he didnt want to incur interest and charges.
As outlined above Virgin said the current standard interest rate would be applied if the 
promotional rate was withdrawn . And I can see that they go on to say the promotional rate 
will be withdrawn from the start of the statement period. The details of interest charges and 
fees are made clear in Mr Rs monthly statements. This includes a default fee of £9 should 
Mr R exceed his credit limit. So, Im also satisfied that Virgin applied the relevant interest and 
charges in line with the account terms. And made clear what these charges and fees would 
be.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I have come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator for similar reasons. Im satisfied that Virgin withdrew the 
cards promotional rate in line with the accounts terms and conditions. So, Im not upholding 
this complaint as I think Virgin has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done.
But I can see that Virgin has reinstated the promotional rate for any future purchases Mr R 
makes, which they didnt have to do. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman