DRN-2575847
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
claim (PPI), that he said was only successful because of his direct contact with his lender. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr F instructed Allay to act on his behalf to pursue a claim for mis sold PPI with 
his lender Ill call B. He said he received an acknowledgement form B in August 2019 that 
didnt have any reference to Allay on it.
Mr F said he wasnt kept updated by Allay about what was happening to his claim. And in 
February 2020, he said B informed him hed missed the deadline (August 2019) to make a 
claim. On speaking to B he was told his claim had been resolved in November 2019, B 
agreed to add additional interest as Mr F hadnt yet received his offer. And the compensation 
offer was paid to Mr F in March 2020. Shortly after Allay sent him an invoice for payment of 
their success fee. Mr F didnt think Allays fee was justified as the claim was only settled after 
hed contacted his lender. He complained to Allay.
Allay said theyd followed FCA guidelines about contact with lenders due to the volume of 
claims being made. And Mr Fs lender had acknowledged the claim had been successful 
based on the evidence submitted by Allay. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim. 
Theyd also updated Mr F and given him estimated timeframes for the resolution of his claim. 
He said Mr Fs lender had failed to notify both Mr F and Allay when the claim had been 
resolved. He said Mr Fs agreement with Allay was based on whether the PPI claim was 
successful, not on the amount of work done by the parties to the agreement. He said Allays 
fee was justified.
Mr F didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration as it was when he contacted his lender that he found hes 
claim had been successful, and so doesnt think Allays fee is justified. 
The agreement Mr F had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
It isnt in dispute that  in July 2019, Mr F asked Allay to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019 and that 
Mr F signed their letter of authority (LoA) and agreed to their terms and conditions.
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction cari
be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire 
online or over the telephone with Allay If the claim is successful, our normal fee, 
as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply.
I can see, in July 2019, Allay sent a Great News message to Mr Fs mobile phone ending 
*7023 (the same number he has given to us) that said a claim could be submitted to B. 
Included in the message was a link to a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ). And I can see from 
Allays records that the completed PPIQ. was returned and submitted to B the next day. 
So, Im satisfied Mr F instructed Allay to submit his claim to B.
And I can also see from Allays records that, in October 2019, they told Mr F his claim was 
still being investigated from messages sent to his mobile phone number. And in November 
2019 when speaking to Mr F they told him due to the high volume of cases being 
investigated it was expected to take around 24 weeks for his claim to be resolved. Which 
would I think have given both Allay and Mr F an understanding that there would be little 
likelihood of hearing anything further before May 2020. So, I dont think Ally acted unfairly or 
unreasonably as they hadnt any update to give Mr F after theyd spoken to him.
In February 2020, Mr F was told by B that a claim for mis-sold PPI had been received after 
the August 2019 deadline and it was this that prompted Mr F to speak to B.But I can see 
the reference quoted on this notification is different from the acknowledgement letter B sent 
to Mr F in August 2019. And on checking with B it became clear that the PPI claim 
submitted by Allay to B before the August deadline had been successful. 
I can understand Mr Fs thinking that without his intervention he wouldnt have known about 
his successful claim. And that it was his actions that meant the additional interest was added 
to his compensation offer. But Allay still had an active claim, and I think would have chased 
B for an update on the outcome if the expected deadline for resolution had passed. I cant 
hold Allay responsible for B failing to keep both Mr F and Allay updated about the outcome 
of his claim.
In March 2020, B told both Mr F and Allay about the success of Mr Fs claim and the 
amount of compensation they would be paying Mr F. Bs response says the compensation 
was awarded::
after reviewing the information, you provided, the information provided by Allay Claims Ltd 
and our internal system evidence.
I think this shows B recognised Allay as being authorised by Mr F, and their involvement in 
submitting Mr Fs PPI claim.
As I outlined above the agreement Mr F had with Allay was a No Win No Fee agreement. 
So, Im satisfied Mr F authorised Allay to act on his behalf., they submitted his PPI claim to 
B. And that claim was successful.I will now look to see whether Mr F asked Allay to stop working for him. 
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing. I havent seen any evidence that Mr F asked Allay to cancel his agreement either 
within or after the 14 day cooling off period. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to 
act on his behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, theyd submitted his PPI 
claim to B and the claim was successful.
Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim they 
submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr Fs claim as their agreement hadnt 
been cancelled. And his claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr F agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. 
I know Mr F will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Mr F to act on his behalf and his claim was successful. This means Allay can charge their 
fees for this claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman