DRN-3285744
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help her when she lost 
around £20,000 to what she says was a crypto-currency investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In May 2019 Mrs S made a series of payments using her Barclays Visa debit card to a 
merchant Ill refer to as B. She says these payments were made at the instruction of a 
different business E who she had been dealing with. She says E were going to help her set 
up an account to trade on the financial markets. Once she had bought cryptocurrency from 
B, she says that she downloaded software that allowed E to control her computer and that 
they transferred the crypto-currency to fund her trading account with them. In total Mrs S 
paid around £20,000 to B which she says was all then passed on to E in this way. 
Mrs S says that when she was later unable to make withdrawals, she realised it was a scam 
and reported this to Barclays. Barclays say that once notified, they issued temporary refunds 
before disputing this with the merchant (B). They say that B provided evidence to show a 
valid relationship with Mrs S and that this was shared with her. So when Mrs S didnt provide 
any further evidence, the dispute was resolved in favour of the merchant and the temporary 
credits were re-debited. 
Mrs S says that she responded with further evidence within time. Ultimately, she complained 
and Barclays maintained their position. One of our investigators didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. Mrs S still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs S, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs S says that Barclays ought to have done more to intervene at the time the payments 
were made. She says they were unusual for her and her account and that it was the first 
time shed bought crypto-currency. So, she thinks Barclays should have identified this and 
done more to protect her from falling victim to a scam. She has quoted some industry 
guidance to support why she believes this to be the case. 
Ive considered this. Banks have longstanding obligations to be alert to instances of fraud 
and to act in their customers best interests. But they have no obligation to guard against bad 
bargains or to provide investment advice. I note that the area of crypto-currency is subject to 
far less regulation than more traditional investments. And it is possible to invest or speculate 
in unregulated and unlicensed schemes. So my first consideration must be whether Mrs S 
was the victim of a fraud or scam, or if this is a case of some questionable sales and trading 
practices in the course of an unregulated investment. 
In short, there isnt sufficient evidence to persuade me that the high bar for fraud has been 
met in the circumstances of this case. Ive extensively researched E online. This includes 
checking both the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website along with the International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal. Ive not found 
reports on either source to support that E were operating a scam. Ive also not been able to 
find online reports or reviews to support the same (something that is commonly seen when a 
merchant has been operating a scam). 
So overall, as there isnt sufficient evidence to support that a fraud or scam has taken place 
here, Barclays were under no obligation to intervene and to provide Mrs S with any scam 
warnings in this matter. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly conclude that 
Barclays ought to have done more before processing the card payments Mrs S authorised. 
I also dont think Barclays could have done more once aware of the problem to try to get 
Mrs S money back. This is irrespective of the issue around whether Mrs S further 
information was received or not. The reason I say this is that Mrs S payments were made to 
B, not to E. B are a legitimate crypto-currency firm and it doesnt seem to be in dispute that 
they provided the service that was asked of them. Mrs S allegation is that she was then 
tricked into sending the cryptocurrency that B had provided her with to E. But a chargeback 
claim can only be raised against the merchant that received the payment. And here, it seems 
most likely that a chargeback about B was always destined to fail as theyd done what was 
asked of them and so were entitled to keep the funds theyd been paid. 
Im of course sorry to hear Mrs S lost money in this way. But as I dont think Barclays are 
responsible for failures that either caused the loss or prevented its recovery, Im not going to 
direct them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman