DRN-3042370
The complaint
Mr H complains Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) didnt carry out sufficient
affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mr H says Cashfloat wouldnt have provided him
with these loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint about loans 3 - 5. Cashfloat didnt agree with 
the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to partially 
upholding Mr Hs complaint about loans 4 and 5. A copy of the background to the complaint 
and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
Both Cashfloat and Mr H were asked to provide any further evidence and or comments they 
wanted this service to consider before 10 September 2021. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H took five loans between August 2019 and March 2020. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
datenumber 
of    
paymentslargest 
repayment
1 £300.00 07/08/2019 24/08/2019 3 £136.82
2 £500.00 28/08/2019 23/10/2019 2 £334.35
3 £600.00 25/10/2019 03/12/2019 3 £295.29
4 £500.00 12/12/2019 23/03/2020 4 £246.29
5 £500.00 26/03/2020 23/04/2020 3 £243.43
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Cashfloat to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loans 3 - 5 shouldnt have been lent. He said the pattern of lending
ought to have prompted Cashfloat to carry out further checks, which wouldve shown it that
Mr H couldnt afford these loans.
Mr H appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 3 - 5. In summary, it
said;
Mr H didnt have any problems repaying his loans
the monthly repayments due for loans 3  5 decreased with each loan
Mr H had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was due to make
it wouldnt be proportionate to have asked for bank statements given it was early on
in the lending relationship and
a member of staff spoke to Mr H before loan 5 was granted to understand why he
was taking the loan.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to 
repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments 
and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Cashfloat wasnt wrong
to lend loans 1 and 2. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I
need to make a finding about it. But, for completeness, I dont disagree with the findings thatthe adjudicator reached in relation to these loans.
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship
between Cashfloat and Mr H. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Cashfloat did
anything wrong when it granted loans 3 - 5.
Loan 3
As the adjudicator has pointed out, in their view, there was now a pattern of Mr H taking new
loans close to when a previous loan had been repaid. This, they thought, ought to have led
Cashfloat to carry out further checks which wouldve shown it that Mr H couldnt afford to
take on this loan, or any of the later loans.
Ive considered what the adjudicator said, as well as the comments by Cashfloat, but I dont
agree a pattern had been formed by this loan and based on what Ive seen Im not intending
to uphold it.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Mr H had become reliant
on the loans and therefore further checks were needed. Afterall, this was only the second
time a loan had been taken out quickly after a previous loan had been repaid, so while a
pattern was starting to emerge, I dont think, at this point it was well established. While, this
was Mr Hs largest capital loan, given the term, Mr Hs contractual monthly repayments had
actually decreased compared to the previous loan.
For this loan, based on what Ive seen I think Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks. Mr
H declared he had a monthly income of £2,274 with monthly outgoings of £425. These
outgoings seemed reasonable given what Mr H declared to Cashfloat about his living
arrangements.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
Cashfloat to have relied on the information Mr H provided and the income and expenditure
figures show that Mr H had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was
committed to making. So, as it stands, Im intending to not uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
this loan.
Loans 4 and 5
Mr H borrowed a smaller sum for loan 4 compared to loan 3. But again, he returned for a
loan fairly quickly after repaying his third loan. This was now the third time that Mr H had
returned for further borrowing, so it couldve been a sign that he was having wider financial
difficulties, or at least an ongoing need for funds.
For loan 4, Mr H declared he had an income of £2,300 per month and monthly outgoings to
£420. So again, if Cashfloat relied on the information Mr H provided then it wouldve thought
he had more than enough disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he was
committed to making.
But, for this loan Cashfloat carried out a credit search and I think, there were signs that
Mr Hs financial position was deteriorating. When he started borrowing from Cashfloat, the
credit checks showed that he had fairly low levels of debt and a small number of outstanding
loans. But by loan 4, his financial position had fundamentally changed.
But loan 4, Cashfloat was aware of the following;Mr H was using 102% of his available credit, indicating he was above a credit limit on 
account(s)
The number of active accounts had increased from 4 to 9
Mr H had been on average opening 2 new credit accounts a month in the last six 
months
There was 1 delinquent account within the last 12 months
7 credit searches in the last three months.
So, I think the information Cashfloat had from the credit check results, indicated to it that
Mr H was seeking and was being granted credit at a fairly high rate of two accounts per
month over the last six months. The results, of the credit checks, in my view ought to have
prompted Cashfloat to have carried out furthermore in-depth checks such as verifying the
information Mr H had provided.
Cashfloat couldve gone about doing this a number of ways. It couldve asked to see copies
of Mr Hs bank statements (as Ive done here) or it couldve asked to see copies of wage
slips and evidence of his outgoings such as copies of bills.
Having looked at Mr Hs bank statement from the time this loan was approved, I dont think
he could afford to take on this loan. Firstly, Mr H appears to be making repayments to at
least three other payday loans companies, these payments needed to be considered and it
looks like the payments for these was around £700 a month. And in the month before he had
repaid over £900 to such lenders. So, its arguable whether given this high amount of
outstanding short-term loans whether further loans ought to have been granted.
But, in addition to this Mr H is spending significant amounts on betting and gambling
websites, in the month before, he spent more than his income on such websites, and then in
the month the loan was approved, he again spent more than his income on gambling. And
on top of this Mr H still had his other credit commitments and living costs that needed to be
paid. So, in my view proportionate checks wouldve shown Cashfloat that Mr H couldnt
afford to take on any further lending.
I still think Cashfloat ought to have been verifying Mr Hs information by the time loan five
was granted, and had it done so it wouldve seen a broadly similar financial position
compared to loan 4. So, the only conclusion I can draw from this is that Mr H wouldve been
unable to afford the repayments he was due to make towards loans 4 and 5.
Overall, Im intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part because I dont think Cashfloat
shouldve granted loans 4 and 5.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has confirmed that he has received the provisional decision and accepted the outcome 
that I was intending to reach. 
Cashfloat hasnt responded and therefore hasnt provided any further comments or evidence 
for me to consider. 
Therefore, based on what Ive seen and what I said in the provisional decision, I still think 
Cashfloat was wrong to have provided Mr H with loans 4 and 5 because it had information from the credit checks which showed it was unlikely he would be in a position to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. 
Ive outlined below what Cashfloat needs to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr H loans 4 and 5 and Ive set out below what Im intending
to ask Cashfloat to do to put things right.
a) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
b) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Cashfloat should pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
d) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Hs credit file
in relation to loans 4 and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should put things right for Mr H as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman