DRN-2232723
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his account and hasnt provided an 
explanation for its actions. Mr H believes the bank has treated him unfairly and he wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered as a result of having his account closed.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Nationwide. In June 2020, following a review Nationwide decided 
to close Mr Hs account immediately. The bank allowed Mr H to withdraw the balance of his 
account and said it had closed Mr Hs account in line with the terms and relevant regulations.
Mr H complained about the lack of information and notice of closure. He says the whole 
experience caused him a great deal of stress, upset and affected his mental health.  And he 
wants compensation for the trouble and upset hes suffered. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint.  She said Nationwide had acted 
appropriately and in line with the relevant regulations  which allowed a review of the type of 
review carried out by the bank but didnt require the bank to give reasons for doing so. Mr H 
disagreed. He said the investigator has simply sided with the bank and believes hes entitled 
to compensation as the immediate closure of his account caused him distress and 
inconvenience. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill deal with Mr Hs concern that the investigator has simply sided with the bank - with 
the implication being that Nationwide is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I 
do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. And that is 
what we have done in this complaint. 
Also, because this service provides an informal dispute-resolution service (we were 
established as an informal alternative to the civil courts) it is for us to determine how we 
assess and determine complaints. If Mr H does not agree with our view, he does not have to 
accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue 
his complaint by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how 
to go about doing that.
Its clear from what Mr H has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint.  
I appreciate that hes upset that Nationwide closed his account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the bank decided to close his account 
immediately, which I dont doubt made it difficult for him to manage his finances. But for me 
to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in 
this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all 
that Nationwide was within its rights to review Mr Hs account. Nationwide also werent 
obliged to tell Mr H why it was carrying out a review of his account  as much as hed like to 
know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. So, I cant say the bank has 
done anything wrong by not providing this information to Mr H. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Hs account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. Nationwide 
closed Mr Hs account without notice. And wrote to him on 19 June 2020 via email to let him 
know that following its review it was no longer willing to offer Mr H banking services. Having 
looked at all the evidence, in my view that wasnt unreasonable. And the bank acted line with 
the account terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything 
wrong when it closed Mr Hs account.
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient and upsetting for Mr H when Nationwide 
closed his account. So, I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be 
appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Nationwide 
acted inappropriately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman