The complaint
Mrs K says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Mrs K has said Satsuma didnt carry out sufficient credit checks. She was 
borrowing from other short-term lenders, her borrowing was out of control and she got into a 
cycle of debt.         
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mrs K between June and 
September 2017. Mrs Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 02/06/2017 28/09/2017 3 £300.00 £147.60
2 22/09/2017 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £158.00
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending to her were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt 
have given it any cause to reconsider giving Mrs K the loans. 
Mrs K didnt agree. She said that Satsumas checks should have shown she was borrowing 
from other short-term credit providers. Mrs K asked for her complaint to be reconsidered.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1593745the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included information about Mrs Ks income and expenditure to establish whether the 
loan was affordable for her. It also included a credit risk assessment and fraud and anti-
money laundering checks. 
For the first loan Mrs Ks income was recorded as being £1,133 per month. Her expenditure 
was £540 a month to which Satsuma added a buffer amount of £62.85 per months. So, this 
would leave Mrs K with a disposable monthly income of £382.55 after taking account of the 
monthly loan repayment. Taking this into account I dont think the loan looks unaffordable on 
a pounds and pence basis. 
And for loan two, Mrs Ks income and expenditure was the same as recorded for loan one 
and Satsuma added a buffer of £244.30 which after taking account of the loan repayment would leave her with a disposable income each month of £190.70. So again, I think the loan 
looks affordable. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mrs K provided to Satsuma which would have caused it to be concerned 
that she was having problems managing her finances.
Its possible that Mrs Ks financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if her 
circumstances were different  which Mrs K has said is the case  Mrs Ks actual financial 
position may well have been more apparent if further information  such as bank statements 
or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. Mrs K has given us a copy of her credit 
report and bank statements, and I see they show she had been using other short-term credit 
providers, but I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to have gathered such detailed information 
at the first point of lending to her. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loan was the beginning of the lending relationship  I 
dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loan being unaffordable or unsustainable 
for Mrs K. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mrs K for evidence of her income and outgoings 
which Satsuma could have gathered from her bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by, Satsuma 
before it lent to Mrs K. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led Satsuma 
to conclude that it should decline Mrs Ks application for the loans. And there isnt anything 
to have prompted it to ask for more information about Mrs K. So, I dont think Satsuma was 
wrong to have provided these loans, based sold on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Satsuma did for these loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mrs K wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate my 
conclusion to Mrs Ks complaint will be a disappointment to her  and I am sorry to hear 
about her personal circumstances  but I hope I have managed to explain how and why Ive 
reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman