DRN-3347543
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C took out a loan with Loans 2 Go for £1,900. The loan was taken out 
over 24 months with an APR of 493.6% and his monthly repayments were £312.87 making 
the total repayable £7,508.88. Mr C failed to keep up with the first repayments. The loan 
was repaid two months later.
Mr C complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr C referred his complaint to 
us. He was also unhappy about the high interest rate.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think 
the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr C about his income and expenses. Mr C told it that his net 
monthly income was £1,389. It verified that figure using a standard industry tool, which 
looks to see whether the disclosed income is consistent with the turnover of the 
consumers bank accounts. The check came back showing it was very close to that 
(£1,380). Mr C also said his expenses (including his other credit commitments of £50) 
were £510 a month.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search. That showed Mr C owed £6,080 in total spread 
across two unsecured loans, two mail order accounts and two credit cards. The search 
didnt show any recent defaults but there were two defaults from 2015 and one from 2014. 
Hed opened 8 new credit accounts in the last 12 months, including two loan accounts 
three months previously with balances of £2,876 and £893 respectively. I think Loans 2 Go 
should have queried why Mr C needed more credit within such a short time. Loans 2 Go 
would have been aware from the credit search that Mr C had greatly underestimated the 
amount of his credit commitments.
I think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate but it didnt react appropriately to the 
information it received. I say that because it calculated that Mr Cs expenses were £915.91 
a month. It then added a buffer of 10% to his verified expenditure to account for any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. That would have left him with just 
£59.63 a month after making his new loan repayment to Loans 2 Go of £312.87. In 
addition his credit repayments exceeded 35% of his monthly income. I think there was a 
very foreseeable risk here that Mr C wouldnt have been able to meet his repayments over 
24 months without difficulty. It wouldnt have taken very much unexpected or seasonal 
expense to leave Mr C in the position of having to borrow to meet his loan repayments.
I think Mr C would have needed a larger disposable income for the loan to be sustainable.So, on current evidence, I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision here to 
provide the loan to him. This is a provisional decision and both parties have time to 
respond and send me additional evidence if they wish to.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. Ive thought about what Mr C has said about the high cost of 
the loan. I see there was a large amount of interest chargeable on the loan and I can 
appreciate that Mr C might now feel this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the loan 
agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he 
would have to pay if the loan ran to term. Interest could be waived if he closed the loan and 
he received a discount for early settlement. Taking everything into account, I think Mr C 
was made aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at 
the time. So, on current evidence, I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a 
reason for me to award any additional redress.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. Loans 2 Go said it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Loans 2 Go Limited should:
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to deduct tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go Limited must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman