DRN-2451341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a personal loan with Northern Bank in 1998. They applied for the 
loan during a meeting with the bank. At the same time, they took out a PPI policy.
The policy cost £36.71 each month. Northern Bank has told us that only the first-named 
party on the loan account was eligible for the PPI. It says it cant be sure whether this was 
Mr or Mrs S. But it says that Mr S was the first-named account holder on the joint account 
from which Mr and Mrs S made their monthly loan repayments. And it thinks it likely that 
he would have been the first-named account holder on the loan account too. So it 
considers it likely that the policy was in Mr Ss name.
If the policyholder had been unable to work due to accident or sickness, the PPI would 
have paid Mr and Mrs Ss monthly loan repayments of £240 until the policyholder returned 
to work or the loan was paid off  whichever happened first. And it would have paid the 
monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment. The 
policy also included life cover, under which the outstanding balance on the loan would have 
been repaid if the policyholder had died before the end of the loan term.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint on the basis that the policy covered Mr S. He 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs S and to Northern Bank on 18 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I 
thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr and Mrs S have told us that they were given the impression that they had to take PPI 
in order to get the loan. Due to the time thats passed, Northern Bank doesnt have 
copies of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs S signed when they applied for the loan and 
PPI. I didnt think that was surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place 
more than 20 years ago. But Northern Bank has provided examples of the types of 
application form that were in use a couple of years before Mr and Mrs S applied for the 
loan. And I thought it was likely, on balance, that they were similar to the forms Mr and 
Mrs S would have seen. Those forms included clear and equally prominent options to 
take or decline PPI.
Overall, I thought it was more likely than not that Northern Bank made it clear to Mr and 
Mrs S that the PPI was optional. And I thought they decided to take it, knowing that they 
had a choice  although I could understand how they may no longer remember this, so 
long after the event.
It isnt in dispute that Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. This means 
it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it didnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Mr and Mrs S have told us about their circumstances at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs S say they were both entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from their employers at the time if theyd been off sick. They also say theyd 
have been entitled to generous redundancy packages. But if the policyholder had made a 
successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid Mr and Mrs Ss monthly loan repayments 
for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats longer than either Mr or Mrs S would 
have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr or Mrs S received from their employers. So they could have 
used those payments to meet other day-to-day expenses.
I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S have commented that their jobs were very secure, 
and were considered to be jobs for life. But there can be no guarantee that any job will 
always be secure in all circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S have told us they had some savings when they took out the loan. But Id 
borne in mind that theyd chosen to protect those, rather than taking out a smaller loan. 
And having the PPI would have allowed them to keep hold of their savings, or use them 
for other things, if the policyholder had been off sick or made redundant.
It accepted that it was possible that the information Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs S 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Id explained that I was 
satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs S chose to take the PPI. So I thought they wanted 
the cover, even if theyve understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based 
on what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, it didnt look as if theyd 
have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.
I didnt know whether Northern Bank told Mr and Mrs S how much the policy would cost 
before they agreed to take it out. But the policy was competitively priced, and Id seen 
nothing to make me think Mr and Mrs S couldnt afford it. And as they were paying for it 
monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if their circumstances changed, or if 
they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
In response to the adjudicators view, Mrs S commented that she earned more than Mr S 
at the time, and said Northern Bank would have been aware of this. She pointed out that 
she was jointly responsible for paying the loan. So she considered that the PPI should 
have covered her, as the higher earner.
Id explained above that Northern Banks told us it cant be sure whose name the PPI 
was in. And I didnt think it was unreasonable that it no longer has a record of this, given 
the time thats passed.
If Mrs S was the higher earner, I could understand why she considers that it would have 
made more sense for the PPI to cover her than Mr S. I couldnt know what was 
discussed at the meeting when Mr and Mrs S applied for the loan. But it was possible 
there was some discussion about who the PPI should cover, and that it was decided that 
it should be in Mr Ss name for reasons which Mr and Mrs S have now forgotten.But regardless of that, the monthly premium for the policy was based on the loan 
repayments, and it would have been the same whether the policy was in Mr S or Mrs Ss 
name. Id explained that I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs S wanted the PPI. So if the 
policy had been set up in Mrs Ss name, theyd have paid the same amount for it as they 
did, in fact pay. I wasnt aware of any reason why Mrs S would have needed to claim on 
the policy before September 2000, when the loan was repaid. So I didnt think that 
Mr and Mrs S suffered any financial loss from the policy being set up in Mr Ss name, if 
thats what happened.
Id considered all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyve said about having 
been encouraged by the adviser to take out the PPI. They say they got the impression 
from the adviser that others applying for loans who had agreed to PPI had had their 
applications accepted very quickly. But while I accepted that the adviser may have 
pointed out the benefits of having PPI to Mr and Mrs S, I couldnt fairly conclude that 
Northern Bank put unfair pressure on them to take the cover, based purely on their 
recollection of a conversation that took place to many years ago.
Mr and Mrs S have also commented that they werent told about their right to cancel the 
policy. But Id explained that I thought it was more likely than not that they knew that they 
had a choice about taking the cover. And if theyd decided they didnt want it after all, 
I thought it was likely that theyd have contacted Northern Bank to ask about cancelling 
the policy. Id seen nothing to suggest that they did so.
Finally, I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S have referred to another complaint which has 
been upheld. But I explained that we decide each case individually, on the available 
evidence. I was sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S. I realised that it was frustrating that 
I was having to reach my decision without sight of the paperwork that was completed at 
the time. But for the reasons Id set out, and based on what Id seen so far, I couldnt 
fairly uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Northern Bank has told us it accepts my provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs S arent happy 
with it. Theyve provided extensive comments, many of which reiterate what theyd 
previously said. Ive taken all Mr and Mrs Ss comments into account in reaching my final 
decision, but Ill confine my comments to what I consider to be the main ones.
Mr and Mrs S say that relying only on examples of the types of application forms which 
may or may not be similar to the forms they completed seems unfair, particularly as 
theyd told us they remember their meeting with the bank, and in particular querying 
whether the PPI was suitable for them.As I explained in my provisional decision, where the evidence is incomplete, I need to 
decide what I thinks most likely, based on the evidence I do have. I said that I didnt 
think it was surprising or unreasonable that Northern Bank no longer has the paperwork 
that Mr and Mrs S singed when they took out the loan in 1998. In reaching my decision, 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs S have told us, what Northern Bank has told us, 
and the sample documentation that Northern Bank has provided. Northern Bank has told 
us the type of application form it provided a sample of came into use a couple of years 
before Mr and Mrs S took out their loan, and remained in use until the year 2000. And I 
remain of the view that its likely to be the type of form that Mr and Mrs S completed.
Mr and Mrs S say they remember their meeting with the bank quite vividly, because 
applying for a loan was quite a big issue for them, and they remember asking whether 
the PPI was really necessary given their employment circumstances. They say they 
really didnt think they needed the PPI, or that it was suitable for them. But the adviser 
stressed that it was suitable, and pressured them into agreeing and signing for the PPI.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs S have given us their honest recollection. And it may be 
that they queried whether they needed the PPI. But while I dont doubt that the adviser 
may have told them that the cover was a good idea and may have recommended it to 
them, Im satisfied, on balance, that it would have been clear from the loan application 
that PPI was optional. And I remain of the view that I cant fairly conclude, based purely 
on Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of a meeting that took place more than 20 years ago, that 
the adviser told them that contrary to what it said on the application form, the cover was, 
in fact, compulsory - or that taking it would improve the chances of their loan application 
being accepted. And from what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the 
policy was suitable, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs S say the adviser told them the PPI covered them both as they had applied 
for a joint loan, and stressed to them that either of them could make a claim under the 
policy.
The sample loan application form states clearly, in capital letters in the brief section on 
PPI that in the case of joint accounts, cover will apply only to the person who is first-
named on the loan agreement. So I think it would have been clear at the time to Mr and 
Mrs S that the policy would only cover one of them. And again, I cant conclude without 
stronger evidence that the adviser told them that theyd both be able to claim under the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs S have pointed out that they both paid for the policy each month from their 
joint account, believing they were both covered. They believe the policy wasnt suitable, 
because Mrs S wouldnt have been eligible to make a claim under the policy.
It isnt in dispute that the loan was joint. If Mr S had made a successful claim on the 
policy, it would have covered the whole of Mr and Mrs Ss monthly repayments on the 
joint loan. The fact that Mrs S couldnt, herself, make a claim doesnt mean that the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S, or that the cover was of no benefit to Mrs S.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs S say Mrs S was off work for a short period during the term of 
the loan. I explained in my provisional decision that I didnt think that Mr and Mrs S 
suffered any financial loss from the policy being set up in Mr Ss name, if thats what 
happened, and that remains my view. Mr and Mrs S have explained that they were under 
the impression that the policy covered them both, but they say they chose not to claim 
when Mrs S was off work, as it was only a short period. I have no reason to believe 
theyd have acted differently if the policy had, in fact, been in Mrs Ss name.Mr and Mrs S have pointed out that under the terms of the policy, if Mr S had been off 
work for a short period and had made a claim, he wouldnt have been able to make a 
further claim until hed been back at work for at least six months.
In order to make a claim for accident, sickness or unemployment under the policy, Mr S 
would have had to be off work for at least 30 days. This was a common provision in PPI 
policies from a wide range of providers. And Im not convinced that Mr and Mrs S would 
have thought it so likely that Mr S would be off work for 30 days or more - and then off 
again for 30 days or more within six months - that this would have put them off taking out 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs S say that if Northern Bank had explained the costs and benefits of the PPI 
more clearly to them, they may well have used part of their savings or at least shopped 
around for a more competitive product instead of taking out the loan with Northern Bank.
But the policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr and 
Mrs S couldnt afford it. If Mr S had made a successful claim, it would potentially have 
covered their full monthly repayments on the joint loan until it was paid off in the case of 
an accident or sickness claim, or for up to 12 months for an unemployment claim. Ive 
explained that I think Mr and Mrs S knew the PPI was optional and chose to take it. If 
theyd changed their minds about having the cover, I think its likely theyd have 
contacted Northern Bank with a view to cancelling it. As I said in my provisional decision, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that they did so.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs S have put a lot of time and effort into making detailed comments 
in support of their complaint. But overall, having considered everything that both they and 
Northern Bank have said, and all the available evidence, my view remains that the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman