DRN-4222263
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Saffron Building Society has not acted fairly in declining her request to 
switch her mortgage to a new product with a fixed interest rate period.
What happened
Mrs H has a repayment mortgage with Saffron. In 2019, Mrs H switched to a mortgage 
product which included an initial fixed interest rate period until the end of April 2022 after 
which her interest rate would move onto Saffrons standard variable rate (SVR).
In April 2022, Mrs H requested a further product switch  she wanted a new fixed interest 
rate rather than to move onto Saffrons SVR.
Saffron declined Mrs Hs request on the basis that her mortgage had been in arrears in the 
past twelve months. It said it would review this again after Mrs H had met her contractual 
payments for a period of six months.
Mrs H complained to Saffron that it wasnt treating her fairly. She explained she had lost her 
job in January 2020 and finding new employment during the Covid-19 pandemic had been 
difficult. In March 2020 Saffron implemented a payment deferral which Mrs H says she 
thought had continued. Mrs H says she got a new job in February 2021 and made additional 
payments towards the arrears, clearing the arrears on her mortgage in May 2022.
Mrs H says its unfair to leave her with a product that has a higher monthly cost than 
available fixed interest rate products, especially if Saffron has concerns about the 
affordability of her mortgage. And that Saffron had previously agreed to a new product for 
her when she had recent arrears on her mortgage so she knows it can depart from its 
policies. Mrs H has explained this situation has caused her a great deal of stress and mental 
strain.
Saffron didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint, it said it had previously agreed to provide Mrs H 
with a fixed interest rate product despite arrears on her account due to her particular 
circumstances at the time, but that it wasnt appropriate to do this again in May 2022 due to 
the repayment history on the account not meeting its lending criteria.
When Mrs H complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. They said 
Mrs H had been through a difficult time and taken steps to clear the arrears on her mortgage 
account. So, they thought Saffron should have agreed to a new product for her in May 2022. 
They recommended Saffron backdate Mrs Hs mortgage as though she had switched to a 
fixed interest rate product in May 2022.
Saffron didnt agree, it said Mrs Hs mortgage repayment history showed she was struggling 
to afford her contractual repayments when she was on a previous fixed rate. It said Mrs Hs 
monthly commitments had increased (including repayments towards a second charge loan) 
and Mrs H hadnt provided evidence of her income and expenditure when requested. So, it 
said agreeing to a new fixed rate product that came with early repayment charges (ERCs) 
may have been detrimental to Mrs H in the event she continued to struggle to meet her 
contractual repayments, particularly if shed needed to sell the property.
Saffron added that Mrs H had indicated in October 2022 that she intended to downsize to 
reduce her level of debt and that she had also asked to switch her mortgage to an interest 
only basis in February 2023 in the short term. But that Saffron hadnt been able to properly 
assess Mrs Hs financial position without her providing a copy of her bank statements.
So, the matter was passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman. I asked for further 
information to clarify Saffrons product switching policy and whether it had assessed Mrs Hs 
financial position at the time of her request. Saffron provided an earlier version of its lending 
criteria which it says is still in use. It also confirmed it didnt undertake an affordability 
assessment at the time as it had declined Mrs Hs request based on her not meeting the 
lending criteria for a product switch.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 June 2023, in which I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. In summary, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Saffron to have 
declined Mrs Hs request to switch to a different product with a fixed interest rate period 
given that this may not have been in her best interests at the time.
Mrs H didnt agree, she said that she didnt think it was fair to ask her to pay an additional 
£600 or more per month. Mrs H also asked that Saffron remove the adverse information on 
her credit file and let her switch her mortgage payments to an interest only basis for a while.
Saffron didnt provide any further comments by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including Mrs Hs additional points, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I note that Mrs H has raised two complaints with Saffron which it responded to in May and 
August 2022. For clarity Im considering here the complaint that Saffron responded to in 
May 2022  i.e. that Mrs H is unhappy Saffron declined her request to switch her mortgage 
to a lower fixed interest rate product.
When Mrs H informed Saffron that she was no longer working in March 2020, Saffron 
agreed to a three-month payment deferral which was then extended by a further three 
months until August 2020. However, no payments were received until February 2021 when 
Mrs H began a new job and in this time arrears accrued. I note Mrs H has said she thought 
the payment deferral had continued and so Ive considered whether the arrears on her 
mortgage accrued correctly. Having done so, I havent seen any evidence that Saffron 
agreed to extend the payment deferral beyond August 2020 or that it ought to have.
Payment deferrals are a useful tool to support customers, but they are not long-term 
solutions. The Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance to firms on mortgages and COVID-19 
sets out that the expectation for businesses was to provide a six-month payment deferral for 
customers where appropriate. So, I think Saffron acted fairly and in line with good practice at 
the time by agreeing this with Mrs H.
For completeness I can also see from Saffrons contact notes that it attempted to establish 
what repayments Mrs H could afford and put in place repayment plans. It also signposted 
Mrs H to external charities to support her in prioritising her debts and planning her next steps. So, I dont have any concerns about how Saffron handled Mrs Hs mortgage up until 
her request in April 2022 that might affect this complaint.
Turning to Mrs Hs request for a new product in April 2022, Saffron has provided a previous 
version of its lending policy which it says is still in use. This says its customers must not 
have been in arrears for at least six months at the time of a product switch. This doesnt 
appear to be included in Saffrons lending policy from April/May 2022, which Saffron says 
was an error.
I note though, that it isnt unusual for lenders to require a period of time over which a 
customer is clear of arrears  this is to demonstrate that the customer can meet their 
contractual repayments before agreeing to a product switch. This is reasonable because 
otherwise customers could be tied into a mortgage theyre not going to be able to maintain 
and it may well cost them more in the long run if, for example, an ERC needs to be paid.
From February 2021, Mrs H clearly made an effort to meet her contractual payments and 
make additional payments to reduce her arrears whilst balancing this priority against her 
other financial commitments. However, Mrs H didnt make a payment towards her mortgage 
in December 2021 or January 2022, so her mortgage was in arrears until these were cleared 
in May 2022.
Mrs Hs repayment history shows she was struggling to meet her contractual repayments as 
they were, and that this had been the case on and off for the previous two years. And she 
had missed two payments only a few months before her request for a product switch. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Saffron to have had concerns about her ability to meet 
her contractual repayments.
In that context, I dont think it was unreasonable for Saffron to want to see a period of time 
whereby Mrs H showed she could meet her contractual repayments to be satisfied that she 
would be able to meet the terms of the new product she wanted to switch to. This is 
important because if Saffron had agreed to a new product with a fixed interest rate period, 
this would also have restricted Mrs Hs options. There would have been applicable ERCs 
had Mrs H needed to refinance or sell the property during the initial fixed interest rate period. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs Hs contractual repayments were higher on Saffrons SVR 
compared to its available fixed rate products at the time, for the reasons above Im not 
persuaded Saffron has acted unfairly in concluding a product switch wouldnt have been in 
Mrs Hs best interests as a whole.
Saffron says that Mrs H contacted it in October 2022 explaining that she intended to 
downsize to reduce her debt, and again in February 2022 to enquire about changing her 
mortgage to an interest only basis. I note that if either change to her mortgage had gone 
ahead it would likely have made an ERC applicable had Mrs H switched to a fixed interest 
rate product in May 2022.
I appreciate Mrs H has provided the context behind her financial position, including her 
reduced income. I also understand she increased her borrowing with another lender to help 
clear the arrears and pay for a home extension. When a customer is struggling financially, a 
mortgage provider should consider whether a lower interest rate would be an appropriate 
concession in the circumstances. But the factors above actually increase the likelihood that 
Mrs H may struggle with her contractual repayments, as she had higher outgoings and a 
lower income than previously. Saffron ought to have considered what was in the best 
interests of Mrs H, and given its concerns about locking Mrs H into a product with ERCs, I 
dont think its acted unfairly in declining her request in the circumstances.
While Mrs H has pointed out that Saffron has made an exception before, this doesnt mean it will always be appropriate to do so. So, for the reasons explained, I dont think Saffron 
needed to do anything further at the time or that it was unfair to decline her request for a 
product switch.
Mrs H has asked that Saffron amend her credit file as her complaint has been ongoing for 
some time. Unfortunately, this isnt something I would expect it to do simply because she 
has raised a complaint, Mrs H has been aware of the contractual repayments shes obligated 
to make during this time. However, if Mrs H thinks her credit file isnt an accurate reflection of 
her mortgage account then she would need to raise this with Saffron directly in the first 
instance. Similarly, if Mrs H wants to temporarily switch her mortgage payments to an 
interest only basis then she needs to request this directly with Saffron. If Mrs H is unhappy 
with how Saffron handles either request she can raise a separate complaint about that.
I understand Mrs H will be disappointed by my findings, but for the reasons explained I think 
Saffron has treated her fairly. Saffron does, however, have an ongoing obligation to continue 
to treat Mrs H fairly if shes still struggling financially.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman