DRN-3343480
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a life 
assurance claim she made for her husband, Mr R.
Mrs R has been helped in bringing her complaint to our service but, for ease of reference, 
my decision will refer to her only.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2007 Mr and Mrs R took out a life assurance policy (policy A) with Legal and General 
through an independent financial adviser. The policy provided a sum assured of £100,000 
over a 23-year term.
In September 2014 Mr and Mrs R asked their financial adviser about extending the term of 
policy A. As this wasnt possible, a new application for life cover was made to Legal and 
General. The new application was for a policy (policy B) with a term of 21 years. Legal and 
General accepted the application and cover was provided on standard terms. 
Following this, Legal and General sent Mr and Mrs R copies of their application to check the 
answers theyd provided. Mr R returned his checking your details form and told Legal and 
General that his medical answers werent correct. He explained that he did not smoke at all 
and provided details of three different medications he took for high blood pressure. Mr R also 
confirmed  by completing a declaration of health form  that there hadnt been any 
changes to his health since he completed the application for policy B. As a result of the 
amendments, Legal and General cancelled policy B and set up a new policy for Mr and Mrs 
R (policy C) with Mr R as a non-smoker. Policy C started on 12 November 2014, providing 
about £136,000 of cover over a 21-year term
Mr R sadly died in September 2020 from cancer with a contributory cause of dementia. A 
claim was submitted under policy C but it was declined by Legal and General. In short they 
said:
They considered Mr R ought to have made them aware of his significant, recent and 
longstanding medical history when applying for the cover in 2014. This related to 
Mr R being advised to reduce his alcohol intake, a hand tremor and depression. It 
also included memory loss which Mr R was referred to a neurologist for in February 
2013, and which he had further regular investigation and treatment for. 
They acknowledged that when Mr R applied he was suffering with memory loss 
which might have impaired his ability to complete the application to some extent. But 
they noted Mr R was able to advise them he had a history of raised blood pressure 
and later corrected the medication he took for it as well as clarifying that he was a 
non-smoker. So, they couldnt accept Mr R would be able to recall this but fail to 
remember other recent and significant health issues he was suffering from. 
They felt Mr R mustve known this information would be relevant to the life insurance 
questions, and considered he couldve disclosed it under several of them.
When an independent financial adviser submits an application to them, they take it 
on good faith that the declarations were made with the knowledge of both applicants. 
As the independent financial adviser acts independently from them, they are 
responsible for ensuring the application is completed accurately and that all warnings 
they provide are read and accepted by applicants. 
They considered Mr Rs failure to disclose the alcohol advice as an oversight rather 
than reckless given he was concerned about other symptoms at the time. 
But they said had they known about Mr Rs actual health history they wouldnt have 
been able to offer him cover. And they think Mr R mustve known the answers he 
gave were wrong. 
So, they declined the claim and offered Mrs R the option of continuing cover in her 
name only. Or, avoid the policy and refund all premiums paid. 
Mrs R complained but Legal and Generals position didnt change. In short, they added:
As part of their assessment of the claim, they wrote to Mr Rs doctor for some 
medical information. This made them aware that:
oMr R had consultations with a neurologist in 2011 and 2012 for his hand 
tremor which hed had for twenty years, but was getting worse. And that Mr R 
attended quarterly neurology appointments from April 2012 where his tremor 
and his medication were reviewed to help him manage the condition. 
Unfortunately, if didnt improve and he confirmed in December 2012 he had to 
stop working.
oMr R saw his doctor in February 2013 about concerns with his memory. He 
then had a CT scan in March 2013 which showed he had excess fluid on his 
brain with cerebral atrophy. Mr and Mrs R attended a memory clinic 
appointment in May 2013, when they confirmed his memory problems started 
gradually about twelve months previously. The memory clinic referred Mr R 
back to neurology to monitor and review this as part of his ongoing 
appointments for his tremor. 
oMr R continued to attend the quarterly appointments through 2013 and 2014. 
In his June 2013 appointment Mr R confirmed he had to stop driving due to 
the tremors. And in December 2013 Mr R said he also stopped driving due to 
his anxiety and nervousness. By the March 2014 review, he had been 
suffering from depression due to his symptoms. 
oMr R attended his neurology review in September 2014 with his daughter. 
The review notes Mr R was very tired and forgetting a lot of things such as 
whether hed eaten or taken his medication. And he was more irritable and 
had a low mood. His neurologist referred Mr R for an MRI scan and for 
psychometric testing. 
oMr R attended his neuropsychological assessment on 3 November 2014 with 
his daughter. This confirmed his MRI scan had shown bilateral basal ganglia 
calcification. It was noted Mr R had a possible neurodegenerative progressive condition and he was referred to the memory clinic for further assessment. He 
was subsequently diagnosed with Lewy Body disease and dementia in 2017.
They follow the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). The law explains that customers should take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation when applying for insurance. And it also sets out how insurers 
should respond when theres been a misrepresentation. 
Their underwriters confirmed if theyd known about Mr Rs referral for further 
investigations into his memory loss then they wouldve postponed considering an 
application until his investigations were complete. And once these investigations 
raised the possibility of a neurodegenerative progression condition, they wouldnt 
have offered cover. 
Under CIDRA, misrepresentation can be classified as deliberate or reckless or 
careless. Given Mr Rs disclosure of his high blood pressure and the corrections he 
made about his medication and smoking status, as well as a conversation they had 
with Mr R to clarify he wasnt a smoker, they considered this implied he had an 
awareness of his application and ongoing medical conditions. They considered the 
misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless and CIDRA allows them to decline the 
claim. 
They cant consider a claim under policy A in the event of deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation but only careless, which they didnt think applied here.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Legal and General 
had acted unfairly by declining the claim. In short, she said:
She thought the application questions Mr R was asked were clear and specific. 
Although she appreciated Mr Rs symptoms may have had some bearing on the way 
he completed the application, she thought it was reasonable to have expected him to 
have answered the relevant questions differently. Particularly due to the ongoing 
quarterly neurology appointments he had, the CT scan and the MRI referral. 
She considered Mr R wouldve known the information he was providing was untrue 
and it was relevant to Legal and General. And, given he was able to correct 
information regarding his medication and smoking status, she thought it was 
reasonable to have expected Mr R to have been able to answer the questions 
correctly. Because of this, she was satisfied there had been a misrepresentation. 
Legal and General had provided their underwriting criteria to show that, had they 
known of the referral for further investigations, they wouldve postponed offering 
cover until they were complete. At which point, once the possibility of a 
neurodegenerative progression condition was raised, they wouldnt have offered 
cover. So, she was satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
The law states that, in cases of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, Legal and 
General can avoid the policy, refuse all the claims and need not return the premiums 
unless it would be unfair to the consumer to retain them. Legal and General had 
declined the claim but given the option for Mrs R to either continue the cover in her 
name only or, cancel the policy and receive a refund of premiums. Our investigator 
thought Legal and General had offered an appropriate remedy.She didnt think Legal and General had done anything wrong by cancelling policy A 
as this was in line with Mr and Mrs Rs request. And, although Legal and General 
said they wouldve been able to consider a claim under policy A if the 
misrepresentation was careless, she didnt think Legal and General had to change 
their classification of the misrepresentation. 
Any concerns about the sale of the policy or advice Mr and Mrs R received should be 
directed to the financial adviser.
Mrs R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that it will have been a very difficult time for Mrs R and her family following Mr Rs 
death. Im also aware of the importance of this matter to Mrs R for financial reasons. I 
therefore want to reassure Mrs R that Ive given everything shes said careful thought. But, 
while I know this isnt the outcome Mrs R is hoping for, Im not upholding this complaint and 
for similar reasons to that of our investigator. Let me explain why.
At which point Id like to explain that my decision will focus on what I think is most relevant. 
So, if I dont mention any specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to take it on board and 
think about it but rather, I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General think Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
by not disclosing the tremors, mental health issues and memory loss problems he suffered 
from. And for which hed regularly seen a neurologist about, received medication for and 
also been referred for further investigation. 
Ive looked at the relevant questions Mr R was asked when applying for the policy. These 
are:
Health  Last 5 years
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the 
last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
any neurological condition for example multiple sclerosis, Parkinsons disease, 
epilepsy, fits?
Health  Last 2 years
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the 
last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:

anxiety, depression or stress that's required treatment or counselling, or chronic 
fatigue syndrome?

memory loss?
Health - Continued
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, do you have 
any medical condition or symptom that:
you're waiting to be seen at or attending hospital for?
Im satisfied Legal and General asked clear and specific questions to which Mr R answered 
them No.
Mr R also had the opportunity to correct the application if his medical history wasnt accurate 
when completing the checking your details form  as he did with his blood pressure 
medication and smoking status. And further to this, he had an additional opportunity when 
returning the health declaration form  in which he confirmed his health hadnt changed 
since he completed the application. 
Based on Mr Rs medical records, I dont think he answered these questions correctly. This 
is because  as Legal and General set out in their response to the complaint - Mr R had a 
number of appointments about his tremors and memory loss prior to applying. This included 
investigations, such as MRI scans, and also medication to treat the tremors. 
Ive noted Mrs Rs point that dementia isnt selective on the information that is or isnt 
retained by a sufferer, and that she says its mainly short-term memory thats affected rather 
than long term memory  hence why Mr R was able to correct his smoking status (as he 
never smoked). Ive therefore carefully considered the possibility that Mr Rs memory loss 
problems may have impacted his ability to correctly answer the application questions. 
I havent however seen any medical evidence to demonstrate that  at the time of applying  
Mr Rs memory problems wouldve impacted him to that severity. And so, considering Mr R 
was able to disclose his high blood pressure when applying and then later corrected the 
medication information as well as his smoking status, I dont think Legal and Generals conclusion that he wouldve been able to recall his other health problems is unreasonable. 
Particularly given the frequency of the neurology appointments Mr R had, the medication he 
was taking and how it affected his lifestyle  such as the impact it had on his mental health 
and also prevented him from both working and driving. From what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that Mr R wouldve been unable to remember the tremor and memory loss 
symptoms or the treatment/investigations he was receiving (including the recent MRI 
referral) for them. Im therefore satisfied that Mr R misrepresented his health when applying 
for cover.
Legal and General has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had Mr R answered 
these questions correctly, then they wouldve postponed offering cover until the results of the 
investigations were known. And that once these investigations raised the possibility of a 
neurodegenerative progression condition, they wouldnt have offered cover at all. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation(s) was a qualifying one. Ive therefore looked 
at the actions Legal and General can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets out the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid 
the policy and refuse any claim when, had the correct information been disclosed in the 
application, cover wouldnt have been offered. The difference though is that premiums 
should be refunded for careless misrepresentation, whereas it can be retained by the insurer 
if classified as deliberate or reckless. This means that Legal and General has acted in 
accordance with CIDRA by declining the claim irrespective of how the misrepresentation is 
classified. Theyve also given Mrs R the option of cancelling the policy and receiving a full 
refund or, continuing cover in her name only with the difference in premium cost refunded 
(that being the cost of the joint life policy they took out against the cost of a single life policy 
in Mrs R's name).  I think by giving Mrs R this option theyve acted in line with CIDRA 
regardless of how the misrepresentation is classified. 
Im aware that Mrs R thinks, should the claim under policy C be declined, a claim under 
policy A should be accepted as it wouldnt have been cancelled had policy C not been set 
up. So, if Legal and General are avoiding policy C and putting Mr and Mrs R back in the 
situation had the misrepresentation not occurred, then policy A would still be active. 
I understand Mrs R feels strongly about this but I dont think Legal and General is required, 
or acting unfairly, by not considering a claim under policy A. This is because theyre not 
responsible for the misrepresentation that occurred  as they relied on the application 
answers in good faith. And policy A was cancelled at the request of Mr and Mrs R through 
their financial adviser. So, I cant hold them responsible for policy A being cancelled or not 
considering a claim. 
Legal and General has said they may have considered a claim under policy A had the 
misrepresentation been classified as careless, not deliberate or reckless. I appreciate Mrs R 
disputes how the misrepresentation has been classified  particularly when considering 
Mr Rs memory problems. But even if I were to consider the misrepresentation to be 
careless, I cant direct Legal and General to consider a claim under a policy that is no longer 
active and for which theyre not responsible for being cancelled. That wouldnt be fair. And 
any consideration of a claim in those circumstances would be a commercial decision by 
Legal and General  and not one I consider they would be legally required to consider. 
I know Mrs R will be disappointed by this outcome. But, for the above reasons, I think 
Legal and General was entitled to decline the death claim and acted fairly by providing the 
option of a full refund of premiums or allowing Mrs R to continue cover in her sole name. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman