DRN-3993951
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Lloyds Bank General insurance Limited have unfairly declined 
their claim for storm damage to their property. 
 
What happened
Mrs and Mr G held a buildings insurance policy with Lloyds. 
In February 2022 Mrs and Mr G made a claim for storm damage to their property after Storm 
Eunice. Their property has a flat roof and copper cladding which was lifted from the roof and 
exterior of the building and buckled.    
Mrs and Mr G engaged a building surveyor to come out and do initial emergency work to 
make the property safe, arrange removal of the damaged material from the house, and to 
investigate the underlying causes. He subsequently prepared a report and quote for the 
repair work.
A claims consultant from Lloyds visited the property and reviewed the report. Lloyds then   
declined the claim advising that the evidence in the report showed that there was 
longstanding damage to the property and the storm had only highlighted that damage, not 
caused it. 
Mrs and Mr G had to pay for the work to make their property safe and Lloyds have agreed to 
pay for these initial securing works up to £2000 as they were incurred prior to the site visit 
and on the advice of their automated advice service. They have also paid £100 to Mr and 
Mrs G for the poor service complaint they made about the attitude of the claims consultant 
and the failure to respond to e mails promptly.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs and Mr Gs complaint and he thought that 
Lloyds had acted fairly in paying £100 for the poor service and for offering to pay for the 
emergency work.     
Mrs and Mr G disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether Lloyds have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
However, having considered all of the evidence carefully, I havent upheld Mrs and Mr Gs 
complaint, and I will explain why.  
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider:
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened
2. Is the damage consistent with damage caused by a storm? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, then a claim will usually succeed.  
Were storm conditions present?
It is agreed by both parties that storm conditions were present on the day the damage 
occurred, due to Storm Eunice with wind speeds recorded in the area of up to 76mph.   
Is the damage consistent with the damage caused by a storm?
The photographs taken after the storm show that the copper cladding has been lifted off the 
roof and front of the house by the wind and has buckled. Im satisfied that this is the sort of 
damage that could be caused by a storm, especially one with high wind speeds.   
Were storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
In order for a claim for storm damage to succeed, the storm has to be the main or dominant 
cause of the damage, and this is where Lloyds and Mrs and Mr G disagree. 
Lloyds say the storm is not the main cause of the damage. Relying on the report that Mrs 
and Mr Gs surveyor prepared, they say that:
 the areas of concern identified in the report in our view suggests poor workmanship and 
poor design are the ultimate causes for the failure of the copper parapet and copper wall 
cladding. The recent storm conditions are not the cause of the long-term gradual failure of 
the structure as clearly described in the report. The recent storm conditions have merely 
highlighted the extent of severe long-term timber rot damage and weakness to the structure, 
rather than having caused it.
They have pointed to various policy exclusions at p22 of the policy booklet which they say 
apply including:
We wont pay claims for: 
Damage that happens as something gets older. This is known as wear and tear. For 
example, your carpets getting dirty and worn, or the nails in your roof slates corroding, 
allowing the slates to slip and let water into your home. 
Damage that happens slowly over time. This includes things like damp, condensation or 
rust 
Keeping your home in good condition 
Its up to you to make sure you keep your home in good condition. We wont pay claims for 
the cost of maintaining your home. We also wont pay claims for the cost of any damage that 
happens due to a lack of maintenance. For example, water getting into your home because 
roof tiles are missing, or your shower leaking because the sealant or grout around it has 
failed
Frost, rot, mould & fungus We wont pay claims for damage caused by frost, wet or dry rot, mould or fungus. You might 
be covered if the wet or dry rot or mould is directly caused by something thats covered by 
the policy
Repairs & bad workmanship 
We wont pay claims for damage caused by: Renovations, repairs or maintenance work. 
Alterations, dyeing or cleaning. We also wont pay claims for damage caused by: Bad 
workmanship or design. Unsuitable or faulty materials being used.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
So, Ive reviewed the surveyors report in the light of the policy exclusions that have been 
applied. The report was prepared shortly after the storm and is detailed. It says that that the 
recent storm damage has brought to light some significant issues in the structure that 
extend beyond those areas affected by the high winds
The report details how the copper cladding which has been blow off by the winds was 
attached to a timber framework which has been found to be severely rotten due to a 
prolonged period of water ingress. This has meant that the copper cladding fixings which 
had been secured to the timber frame had no strength and were easily dislodged by the 
storm. 
It also reported that 
The copper capping to the parapets is laid flat which allowed rainwater to settle and 
seep through to the plywood base and down into the outer wall structure, rotting the 
plywood and compromising the fixings. There was no ventilation to the capping 
meaning that condensation couldnt escape
There was no weathering detail on the copper panels meaning that driven rain can 
penetrate the top of the plywood leading to rotting of the main fixing points. Again, 
there was no ventilation to the cladding
The single ply membrane has come away in the wind as the glue which held it to the 
structure has been damaged by the warm air containing moisture rising up from the 
house, as there was no vapour layer to stop it.    
The quoted work required to cure the underlying issues includes substantial replacement of 
timber and roofing materials as well as repairing the external copper sheets which were lifted 
in the storm, but the surveyor says is necessary to prevent a repetition of this in the future. 
Mrs and Mr G have said in their response to us that they consider the rotting timberwork was 
a factor in the damage not the cause, as the strong winds were in their view the cause. They 
have pointed to other damage caused by the storm locally as evidence of the strength of the 
winds and said that without the winds there would have been no damage. And so, they think 
that Lloyds should pay for a proportion of the repairs. 
I can fully appreciate how upsetting it would have been for Mrs and Mr G to have discovered 
as a result of this storm that there were significant underlying issues that would cost a lot to 
put right and I do understand why they make the point that without the storm, the cladding 
would have remained intact, and the underlying issues undiscovered. 
However, the surveyors report is very thorough, and clearly identifies a number of failings 
and underlying issues which have meant that the storm was able to cause significant 
damage to the property, and so Im persuaded that the underlying cause of the damage is  the gradual deterioration of the timber over time, which in turn was caused by the failings in 
the design and build, and so Is satisfied that Lloyds have fairly applied the exclusions 
above. 
I dont dispute that the strong winds caused the copper to be dislodged and blown off, but 
had the timber underneath not been rotten, the fixings should have been able to withstand 
the force of the winds.   
Based on this, Ive concluded the storm conditions werent the main (or dominant) cause of
the damage, and Lloyds have fairly declined the claim. 
Im pleased to see that Lloyds have agreed to cover the initial emergency repair costs up to 
the value of £2000 and have paid a further £100 for the poor service, and Im satisfied that 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint, and Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited need not do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman