DRN-2568968
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by a third party, says he was mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a Debenhams store card in October 2003. He says he was made 
to feel he had to take out the policy and it wasnt properly explained to him.
 
The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in 
the company which is now responsible for answering these types of complaint. The 
company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer to AXA 
throughout this final decision.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and has already provided a view 
that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr T disagreed and so its been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate he will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Mr Ts card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the store. PPI was 
added on to the store card account.
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this time. 
Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of the 
processes that were generally used. We know, for example, that consumers were asked to 
fill out a card account application which was part of a wider leaflet-based form. The terms 
and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant was given to complete.
Im further helped by having to hand the actual form and credit agreement Mr T filled out 
when he took out his card. Theres a section on the application leaflet about the PPI that 
invited him to sign his name in a box to buy PPI cover. He could have left it blank in which 
case PPI would not have  been added. There was an indication that there would be a cost 
involved as the form said that the monthly premium would be added to Mr Ts new card 
account. Mr T signed at this point and therefore agreed to the PPI.
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA needed only to provide enough 
clear information for Mr T to decide for himself whether he wanted the PPI cover. I think  
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but overall, I think 
its likely that Mr T would still have gone ahead and bought the policy anyway. 
Mr T was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. He told us about some other work he was doing which was 
separate to his main job. But from what he told us, if he lost his main job, hed still be able 
to make a successful claim given the number of hours he was working.
Mr T told us he wasnt entitled to any employer benefits. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive  costing £1.50 each month for every £100 that was owed on the card 
- but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most credit cards. For 
example, if Mr T had become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI would have paid off 
15% of his outstanding store card balance each month until he returned to work or until all 
the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in addition to any other 
means he had in place at the time. So having the PPI would have meant he wouldnt have 
to dig into other sources to help fund his monthly payments, such as savings. And whilst 
Ive seen that Mr T could have relied on his family for help - and thats something thats 
good to have -  it very much depends on individual circumstances, which can easily 
change. 
Taking everything into account and whilst Im sorry to have disappoint Mr T, Im not able to 
make a finding that his PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and I dont require 
AXA France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman