DRN-3782935
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the quality of the car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse). He is also unhappy about the support he received 
from Black Horse when he was in financial hardship.
When I refer to what Mr S and Black Horse have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse to 
acquire a used car first registered in 2017. The car at the time had travelled approximately 
12,794 miles. The cash price of the car was around £31,999 and the total amount payable 
was approximately £40,169. Mr S paid a deposit of £1,000. The duration of the agreement 
was set at 48 months, consisting of 47 payments of around £590 and a final repayment of 
around £11,440.
Mr S said the car had major problems shortly after he acquired it. And in November 2019, as 
stated in the warranty invoice, the car had the rear differential replaced because it was 
leaking. At that time the car had travelled around 18,572 miles. 
Mr S had some further issues with the car in March 2021. At that time, the car had to be 
recovered and eventually had the steering lock fixed. Mr S has also provided our service 
with a report dated October 2022 which shows that the car had several faults. So, he feels 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, as he feels that the previous 
repairs carried out are linked to the latest faults with the car. 
On 23 March 2020, the United Kingdom (UK) government announced that UK would enter a 
lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr S said that due to the pandemic, his income 
and finances were affected. He missed his finance agreement payment in February and 
March 2020. At the end of March 2020 Mr S did make one single payment. And then, at the 
end of April 2020, he contacted Black Horse to request financial assistance, and didnt make 
another payment until June 2021 when he paid £500 towards the arrears. 
In April 2020, Black Horse and Mr S agreed that he would get back to them after he checked 
whether he would be applicable for the UK government furlough programme. But Mr S didnt 
contact them until August 2020. During this time Black Horse treated this period as if Mr S 
wouldve been given a six-month payment deferral. But after this time Mr S still didnt make 
any payments towards his finance agreement. So, in December 2020 Black horse sent him 
an arrears notice, followed by a notice of default in January 2021. 
Mr S did contact Black Horse in February 2021. At this time, he explained that he was still 
unable to make his payments, so they discussed some options with him. Voluntary 
termination was one of the options discussed, but as he didnt want to take this route, Black 
Horse asked him to call back and complete an income and expenditure assessment. But Mr 
S didnt make any further contact with Black Horse for a long period of time. The arrears 
continued to increase, as he only made a payment of £500 in June 2021, so Black Horse 
kept sending him arrears letters. At the beginning of March 2022, Black Horse issued a 
default letter to Mr S and asked him to pay around £11,299 by 27 March 2022 or his 
agreement would terminate. The letter also explained that Black Horse may take action to 
recover the car. Later in March 2022, Mr S was also given an option by Black Horse to sell 
the car and reduce the amount owed to prevent repossession, but Mr S didnt take them up 
on this offer.
Overall, Mr S didnt think that he got enough support from Black Horse, when he was in 
financial difficulties, so he brought his complaint to our service. He would like Black Horse to 
pay for the repairs to the car and arrange a realistic repayment plan, or end the finance 
agreement without him having to pay anything further, and without this situation having any 
adverse impact on his credit rating.
In May 2022, Black Horse responded to Mr Ss complaint about the finance support he 
received when he was experiencing financial difficulties. In this correspondence they said, in 
summary, that they will not be upholding his complaint because Mr S failed to make his 
payments on time, and due to the outstanding arrears they instructed third party recovery 
agents to contact Mr S and recover the car. Black Horse felt that they have tried to assist 
Mr S by providing him with payment holidays and reduced payment plans, but this was no 
longer possible due to the amount of arrears. They also explained that if he wanted to keep 
the car, he would have to settle the balance in full. 
In July 2022, Black Horse also responded to Mr Ss complaint about the quality of the car. In 
this correspondence they explained that they couldnt contact the dealership, so they werent 
able to obtain any evidence of the cars faults. They said that they attempted to also contact 
Mr S on several occasions but were unable to reach him. In the correspondence, they go on 
to say that the MOT carried out in March 2021 passed with no advisories, so they concluded 
that, without any evidence showing that the car was unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, they wouldnt be accepting any liability.
Mr S was still unhappy with Black Horses response, so one of the investigators at our 
service looked at his complaint. 
Our investigator was satisfied that Black Horse havent been unreasonable, and she didnt 
think that Black Horse needed to do anything more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law, and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Mr S acquired the car under a hire purchase 
agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit agreement. Our service can look at these 
sorts of agreements. 
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me, reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.Satisfactory Quality
Black Horse is the supplier of the goods under this hire purchase agreement and is 
responsible for dealing with complaints about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) covers agreements such as the one Mr S entered into. Under the agreement, there is 
an implied term that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that 
goods will be considered to be of satisfactory quality, where they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant 
circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash 
price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Ss case the car was used, with a cash price of around £31,999. It had covered
around 12,794 miles and was approximately two years old when he acquired it. It seems it 
was in good overall condition. I would have different expectations of it compared to a brand-
new car. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would have high expectations of it and would expect the quality of the car to be of a 
higher standard than a car which is more road worn or has a lower price. Also, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period of time.
Black Horse said that they are only liable for faults that are present or developing at the point 
of delivery. And that they have no evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it 
was sold to Mr S.
Mr S, on the other hand, thinks that Black Horse should be responsible for the repair to the 
car as he believes that the current faults with it are linked to the initial repairs done. 
The CRA sets out that Mr S has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Mr S would not be able to retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection at a 
later date. Mr S could only reject the car within the first 30 days, and only if he expressed his 
wish to do so. The initial fault with the car, more specifically the rear differential, was fixed in 
November 2019. This is more than 30 days after Mr S acquired the car. But even if that initial 
fault did occur within the first 30 days, Mr S would not be able to reject the car now, because 
he accepted the repair at that time. 
The CRA says that, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, 
then Mr S would be entitled to still return it after 30 days, but Mr S doesnt have the right to 
reject the car until he has exercised his right to repair. So, Mr S doesnt have an automatic 
right to return the car. For me to conclude that Mr S can exercise his right to reject the car, I 
would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults he complains 
about were likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that Black 
Horses one attempt at a repair has failed. 
Considering the age and mileage of the car, and the faults Mr S experienced with the rear 
differential shortly after acquiring the car, I think most likely the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at that point. I think, most likely, a reasonable person would not expect a fault with the 
rear differential to appear on the car that is only about two years old and has only travelled 
approximately around 18,572 miles. So, it is also reasonable to take into account the nature 
of the problem and whether it is fair to say that the car, or its components, were reasonably 
durable. I understand that a differential may experience wear over time, but considering the 
circumstances in this case, I think, most likely, a reasonable length of time for differential to last would be more than 18,572 miles. A fault with the differential is a significant problem to 
arise on a car, and it can be very expensive to put right  the cost of the repair was more 
than £4,000. Given how relatively low the overall mileage of the car was, and the age of the 
car at the time, I do not think this was a cost a reasonable person would expect to bear, or a 
fault that would be expected to arise so soon. So, I do not think the car, and specifically the 
rear differential, was sufficiently durable. For this reason, I do not think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
I considered that Mr S had accepted an attempt at repair, and that repair appears to have 
been successful and it was done under warranty at the time. The warranty invoice, provided 
by Mr S, shows that the car had the rear differential replaced, as it was leaking. Once it was 
replaced it was retested and it was reported that it was all ok. So, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for him to be able to now exercise his right to reject the car. 
I know that Mr S had some further issues with the car in March 2021, and then later in 2022. 
In March 2021, the steering lock was fixed on warranty and free of charge. Mr S has 
provided a fault report from March 2021 and at that time the car had travelled around 42,000 
miles. Mr S said that when he picked up the car after these repairs there were several issues 
with it, as the aircon and the electric seats no longer functioned. Mr S also told us that when 
the car was being recovered, after he lost all power and all control of the car, the recovery 
engineer removed all the wheels and brakes to get the car onto the trailer. So, Mr S believes 
this could have contributed to the current faults with the drive system, as he said that the car 
was dragged onto the trailer which can cause damage. So, Ive considered the evidence 
available. Ive also considered that in March 2021 the car had passed an MOT, and at the 
time the car had travelled approximately 41,256 miles.
Ive also considered the Refusal of MOT test certificate, provided by Mr S, which shows that 
there are major defects that require immediate repair. More specifically, this shows that the 
tyre pressure monitoring system is malfunctioning or inoperative. It also states; Engine MIL 
inoperative or indicates a malfunction. But the date of this test was in September 2022, 
when the car had travelled approximately 77,180 miles. In addition to this, Mr S provided our 
service with the car health check results which show numerous system fault codes. These 
codes relate to four problems with engine electronics, one problem with brake electronics, 
four problems with climate control, two electronic problems with drivers door, one problem 
with comfort system central control module, one problem with passenger door, and one 
problem with rear driver side door. This report is from October 2022, and it notes that at the 
time the car had travelled around 127,231 kilometres (which is approximately 79,058 miles).  
Ive not seen evidence that would allow me to say that most likely the faults with the car Mr S 
experienced in March 2021, or the ones he experienced in September and October of 2022, 
were linked to the fault with the differential in November 2019. But even if they were, the 
faults in March 2021 occurred approximately 18 months after he acquired the car and about 
16 months after the differential was replaced. And, the car had travelled more than 20,000 
miles since then. The car faults that have been noted in the Refusal of MOT test certificate in 
September 2022, and the ones listed in the October 2022 report, were all noted when the 
car had travelled more than 58,000 miles since the differential was replaced and more than 
64,000 miles since Mr S acquired the car. None of the reports provided specifically state that 
the faults were present, or developing, at the point of sale, or that they were linked to the 
initial fault with the differential. So, considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think Mr S has demonstrated that the repairs already completed in November 2019 have 
failed within an unreasonable time. And given the cars age, and the mileage it had travelled, 
I think, most likely, the problems were due to the wear and tear rather than faults that 
wouldve been developing, or present at the point of sale. So, while Mr S has my sympathy, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to allow him to exercise his right to reject the car, or 
for me to hold Black Horse responsible for the repairs in question. Financial Support 
In summary, Mr Ss main complaint point is that he didnt get enough support from Black 
Horse when he was in financial difficulties. He would like Black Horse to arrange a realistic 
repayment plan or end the finance agreement without him having to pay anything further, 
and without the situation having any adverse impact on his credit rating. 
So, Ive taken the above into consideration, and Ive considered whether Black Horse have 
done enough to support Mr S, when he told them that he was experiencing financial 
hardship. When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant rules and guidance at the 
time. The rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to customers and consumers, and 
I will be using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words are to have the 
same meaning.  
 
On 24 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published additional guidance 
which came into effect on 27 April 2020  Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: 
temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced temporary measures for consumers 
whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. In relation to the 
payment deferrals, the guidance states the following: Where a customer is already 
experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result 
of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020, and later in September 2020. 
Both updates build on the previous guidance that was issued and stipulate that payment 
deferrals can be granted for a total period of six months. It is also important to note that 
within the mentioned guidance it states that: There is no expectation under this guidance 
that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether 
the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
Ive considered that in April 2020, when Mr S informed Black Horse of his financial 
difficulties, some of the above mentioned FCA guidance on Covid-19 had not yet been 
published or in force. But Ive considered that before, and after, the additional Covid-19 
guidance was in force, there was other guidance such as the FCA  Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery 
(including repossession), which say that firms should treat consumers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as considering suspending, 
reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, allowing deferment of 
payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. And from 
what Ive seen, it looks like Black Horse was trying to help Mr S, by treating him with 
forbearance and due consideration. I say this because, when Mr S had difficulties making 
payments towards the finance agreement, they gave him an initial three-month payment 
deferral for May, June, and July 2020. I think this was a reasonable decision and one in line 
with the guidance provided by the FCA. But Ive gone on to consider whether they shouldve 
done more when he asked for further help after those initial three-months. I can see from the 
contact notes, provided by Black Horse, that they also agreed to provide further help to Mr S, as they agreed to retrospectively add a payment deferral for March and April 2020. And they 
agreed a payment deferral for August 2020 payment too.
I think the FCA Covid-19 guidance, mentioned above, was intended for customers in 
situations like the one Mr S found himself in, and it was in force at the time. So, I think Black 
Horse were right to agree a deferral for a total of six months from March 2020 to August 
2020. 
Mr S didnt make a payment in September 2020, and he didnt make his October 2020 
payment either. So, Ive also thought about what shouldve happened after August 2020, 
when the six-month payment deferral wouldve ended, as Mr S was still experiencing 
financial difficulties at the time, and, I think most likely, he wouldve needed further help. 
The FCA expected firms to offer tailored support to customers who were still facing financial 
difficulties after taking out the maximum six-month payment deferrals. The Tailored Support 
Guidance, issued by the FCA in January 2021, which originally came into force in October 
2020 and was updated in November 2020, indicated that the FCA expected firms to be 
flexible and employ a range of short-term and long-term forbearance options. 
I can see that Black Horse sent an arrears letter to Mr S in December 2020 followed by a 
notice of default letter in January 2021. The correspondence requested that Mr S contact 
Black Horse to discuss his situation, if he was having difficulties making his payments. But 
Mr S didnt contact Black Horse until February 2021. During this call Mr S told Black Horse 
that he was back to work but on a reduced income. Black Horse discussed voluntary 
termination of the car, but Mr S was not happy to do that as he needed the car. So Black 
Horse explained that they could see if they could arrange a short-term three-month 
repayment plan provided it is affordable to Mr S. But as Mr S said he was not in a position to 
do an income and expenditure assessment during that call, they agreed he would call back 
on the following Monday. From the evidence available, I cant see that Mr S made any 
contact on that following Monday, and I cant see that he made any contact in 2021 after that 
call. Also, besides the payment of £500 in June 2021, Mr S made no further payments 
towards his agreement. As arrears continued to accrue, Black Horse continued to send 
arrears letters to Mr S. 
Mr S has also told our service that after the payment deferrals, he contacted Black Horse to 
reinstate his payments, but they changed his interest and asked him to repay higher 
payments due to the previous deferral payments provided, instead of adding the deferred 
payments to the end of the term of the agreement. The above mentioned FCA guidance 
states that, where a customer can resume full repayments after the payment deferrals, but is
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately, the firm should allow them to
repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer
period for repayment. It also says that the firm should consider what is most in the 
customers interests. So, Ive taken that into consideration. But in Mr Ss situation this is a 
moot point as Mr S never called back to do an income and expenditure assessment in mid-
February 2021 to determine what was and wasnt affordable for him at the time. 
Based on all the above, I think Black Horse did try to work with and provide tailored support 
to Mr S. But he didnt make any payments towards the credit agreement besides the 
payment of £500 in June 2021, and didnt make contact with them as agreed. It is also not 
unreasonable for Black Horse to report any missed payments to credit reference agencies, 
from September 2020 onwards, as this is in line with the Tailored Support Guidance, and 
because they have a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit reference 
agencies.Ive also considered whether it was right for Black Horse to terminate Mr Ss credit 
agreement. I can see that Mr Ss financial difficulties lasted longer than six months and that 
he hasnt made any payments towards the finance agreement from September 2020 
onwards, besides the payment of £500 in June 2021. So, a large number of arrears had 
accrued, and, like I mentioned above, Mr S didnt contact Black Horse back in February 
2021 to do an income and expenditure assessment. Black Horse sent Mr S a default notice 
on 7 March 2022, which set out the arrears on the account and explained what would 
happen if he didnt act on the state of the account. So, I think the correspondence Mr S 
received from Black Horse gave enough information for him to understand that Black Horse 
could terminate his finance agreement and repossess the car, if he made no contact or 
payments towards the credit agreement. 
On 18 March 2022, Mr S made contact with Black Horse. During this call options were 
discussed, and Black Horse explained that due to the significant arrears substantial 
payments would need to be paid to stop the agreement from termination. Another option that 
was offered was for Mr S to sell the car to clear the balance. During one of the calls, Black 
Horse also wanted to transfer the call to their specialist team to discuss options, but this was 
declined by Mr S. As no resolution or arrangement was agreed during this call, and no follow 
up call was made by Mr S by the set date in the default notice, I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Black Horse to allow further arrears to accrue. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Black Horse to terminate the agreement when they did towards the end of 
March 2022. I think Black Horse were patient with Mr S while they waited to see if his 
circumstances would change. Also, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Black Horse 
to allow the arrears to increase indefinitely, so I think their decision to terminate the contract 
was a reasonable one. Considering the agreement was unaffordable with significant amount 
of arrears, I dont think it wouldve been responsible for Black Horse to allow Mr S to 
continue with the finance agreement and get into further arrears. They also acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of Mr S hire purchase agreement. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr S for the difficulties that he is experiencing. But taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr S has been treated unfairly by 
Black Horse. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman