DRN-2944156
The complaint and background
Mrs R is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim 
she made on her pet insurance policy. 
Earlier this year, Mrs R made a claim after her dog needed surgery to repair his cruciate. 
Red Sands highlighted that Mrs Rs policy only covers each condition for 365 days from the 
date either she or her vet first noticed it, usually when symptoms first arise. It said that more 
than 365 days had passed since the onset of her dogs cruciate injury, so cover had expired 
for that condition. 
Mrs R was unhappy with this. She said her vet discussed a number of potential causes for 
her dogs stiffness, including arthritis. She said shed followed the vets advice to the letter 
and the cruciate rupture wasnt definitively diagnosed until 2021. She felt Red Sands was 
suggesting she should have opted for surgery as soon as her vet mentioned the cruciate 
during a consultation, just in case it became necessary after 365 days. Shed had to take a 
loan to pay for the surgery. She said that this and her correspondence with Red Sands had 
exacerbated her mental health issues. 
Our investigator felt, having reviewed the vets notes, that the claim had been handled fairly, 
in line with the policy terms. As Mrs R disagreed, Ive been asked to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the policy literature, including the insurance product information document (IPID) and 
schedule, state in clear terms that cover is time limited to 365 days from the date a condition 
is first noted by either the policyholder or their vet.
In some cases, treatment wont be required at first. So, to apply the term strictly could lead to 
an unfair outcome, in that the policyholder could lose out on much (or even all) of the cover 
provided by the policy theyve paid for. We therefore generally say that the time limit should 
start from the date when the policyholder could have claimed on their policy. This is usually 
when a vet recommends some kind of investigation or treatment in response to symptoms. 
So, Ive thought about when the time limit should be taken from in this case.
I can see that the dog had presented with many of the same symptoms that were noted in 
January 2021 more than 365 days earlier. The vet first noted a thickened stifle in May 2018. 
They noted a reduced range of motion on the dogs left side and muscle mass reduction in 
December 2019. That suggests these symptoms had been developing for some time by the 
point surgery was agreed upon. Ive therefore considered when investigation or treatment of 
these symptoms was first recommended. 
In December 2019, Mrs R took her dog to the vet because he was becoming stiff to rise. 
The vet was evidently concerned this was being caused by a cruciate injury. The note says, 
unable to elicit cranial drawer but discussed cruciate. My understanding is that, had the vet 
been able to elicit the drawer sign, this would have indicated a cruciate rupture. 
Nevertheless, I dont interpret from the note that they were satisfied that the cruciate wasnt 
the issue. They still went on to discuss the cruciate with Mrs R (no other cause is mentioned 
in this note). They also discussed x-rays, which presumably would have provided a clearer 
diagnosis and ruled out other potential causes (as they ultimately did in January 2021). 
In addition, the vet discussed anti-inflammatory drugs, which are a non-surgical way of 
managing a cranial cruciate rupture. These were subsequently prescribed, and Mrs R later 
received advice in January 2021 that her dog should continue taking them until the surgery. 
In December 2019 though, Mrs R opted to continue with joint supplements and monitor her 
dogs progress. 
In April 2020, Mrs Rs dog went lame after chasing something. The vet said images Mrs R 
had sent them suggested a cruciate injury (which is consistent with a cruciate injury being 
suspected in December 2019). They discussed medical management again, and surgery. 
And the vet prescribed an anti-inflammatory as originally discussed in December 2019. 
Later, in 2021, the dog went lame again after playing with another dog. The vet noted similar 
symptoms as those noted in 2018 and 2019 (left side lameness, stifle thickening and poor 
range of motion), and said the history was suspicious of cruciate rupture. Radiographs, a 
type of x-ray (as first discussed in December 2019), were taken which confirmed a cranial 
cruciate rupture, and surgery was agreed as the appropriate next step.  
It seems to me that a cruciate injury was first suspected in December 2019 and options for 
further investigation and treatment were discussed at that point. Mrs R opted to continue 
with the dogs existing treatment plan and see how things went. When the problem recurred 
in April 2020, medical management was recommended. When it recurred in January 2021, 
x-rays were arranged which confirmed the cruciate rupture, and surgery was recommended. 
But by that point, more than 365 days had elapsed. Overall, I think Red Sands acted fairly in 
declining Mrs Rs claim on that basis.
This isnt to suggest that Mrs R acted unreasonably by not opting for surgery earlier, but 
simply that her policy doesnt cover any treatment more than 365 days from when her vet 
first recommended investigations into or treatment of a particular condition. I was sorry to 
hear the process of making a claim exacerbated Mrs Rs mental health issues, and that she 
was forced to take borrowing to pay for the surgery. But for the reasons given above, I dont 
feel these were results of a failure by Red Sands to handle the claim fairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman