DRN-3902019
The complaint
Mr L and Miss W complain about how U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) handled 
their contents insurance claim. Miss W is the main complainant and brings this complaint as 
the joint policy holder of the policy. For ease, Ill only refer to Miss W in my decision.
What happened
Miss W complained to Direct Line about the valuation she received for a lost item of 
jewellery. Miss W says the item was a precious, valuable piece of jewellery and has 
sentimental value. Miss W adds that she obtained an independent opinion, valuing the item 
at £1,700 but was disappointed that Direct Line offered her a cash settlement of £1,095. 
Miss W is also unhappy about the service she received from Direct Line, pointing to a call 
with the insurers specialist, during which she says she was laughed at.
In its response, Direct Line stood by its valuation and said it had decided the claim in line 
with its terms. Regarding the service Miss W received, Direct Line said that, although the call 
handler did laugh, it wasnt intended to be offensive.
Remaining unhappy, Miss W asked this service to review her complaint. Miss W wants 
Direct Line to settle the claim in line with the higher valuation and wants the insurer to waive 
the excess she paid as compensation for the distress she says she experienced. Our 
investigator concluded that Direct Line had acted fairly. Miss W didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators opinion that Direct Line has acted fairly. Ill explain why:
The terms of the policy allow Direct Line to either repair or replace the item or pay a 
cash settlement. The terms go on to say that the insurer wont pay more than the 
amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers. I dont 
find this term to be unusual. In fact, its typical of insurers to limit settlements to the 
amount it wouldve cost the insurer to repair or replace the item itself. Insurers 
receive discounts from suppliers, which is a common feature of the insurance 
industry. 
Direct Lines specialist couldnt remake the item given it was vintage, and so it based 
its valuation on a similar replacement which was of a heavier weight than the item 
Miss W was claiming for. According to the terms, Direct Lines cash settlement need 
not exceed the amount it wouldve paid its own specialist to replace the item. Given 
this and the fact that the valuation was reached using a heavier item, I think the 
insurers settlement figure is fair.
I know Miss W received a higher valuation from her own jeweller. Ive seen a copy of 
this, and it seems to me that it lacks the detail needed to be a persuasive valuation. 
Moreover, the jeweller seems to have reached an estimate rather than an accurate 
valuation. So I think its fair that Direct Line didnt accept this valuation when reaching 
a settlement figure.
Unfortunately, the call Miss W complains about isnt available for me to listen to. 
Looking at Direct Lines notes, it seems the insurer spoke to the call handler and 
reached the conclusion that the call wasnt handled poorly. Without the call itself, I 
cant safely say that Miss W did receive a poor service. I appreciate the overall 
circumstances caused Miss W distress, particularly because of the sentimental value 
of the lost jewellery. But I havent seen enough to fairly conclude that Direct Line 
provided a poor enough level of service, to make me decide that this part of the 
complaint should be upheld.
For these reasons, I wont be asking Direct Line to review the settlement it has reached for 
this claim, nor do I think that compensation is due to Miss W.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman