DRN-3070071
The complaint
Mr S complains about a personal loan provided to him by Oakbrook Finance Limited, 
(Oakbrook Finance) which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Oakbrook Finance provided Mr S with a loan of £3500 on 23 March 2020. The loan was to 
be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £241.83. If Mr S made each payment when it was 
due, hed pay £5803.92 in total. Mr S has to date, not repaid this loan.
Mr S says he was in debt at the time Oakbrook Finance agreed to the loan. He said he also 
had two defaults in his name, and it should have picked up on this and not agreed to lend to 
him. Oakbrook Finance sent Mr S a final response where it gave reasons why it felt it had 
made a fair lending decision.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be not upheld. They said 
that Oakbrook Finance didnt carry out proportionate checks and should have gone further 
with finding out if Mr S could afford the loan. But they were unable to conclude whether the 
loan was affordable or not, if Oakbrook Finance had carried out further checks. This is 
because Mr S has been unable to provide further information about this and in particular 
hasnt been able to provide bank statements from when he took out the loan.
Mr S did not agree with the investigators view. As this complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Oakbrook Finance lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC).
Oakbrook Finance was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ss creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
means that Oakbrook Finance had to consider both the risk to it that Mr S wouldnt make 
the repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr S of not being able to 
make these repayments. In particular, Oakbrook Finance had to consider Mr Ss ability to 
make repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, 
without Mr S having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse effect on his financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  Oakbrook Finance needed to take 
reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Mr Ss 
current income. It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a 
reasonable estimate of, Mr Ss current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to 
the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length 
of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Finally, the rules list unfair business practices. In particular, the rules say a lender mustnt 
accept an application for credit where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the 
borrower has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
relevant to the creditworthiness assessment. This would arise where the information 
supplied by a borrower is clearly inconsistent with other information of which the lender is 
aware.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, Ive considered 
the following questions:
- Did Oakbrook Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Ss loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
- Did Oakbrook Finance make a fair lending decision?
As set out above, Oakbrook Finance gathered some information from Mr S about 
his income and expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit 
check.
Ive seen how Oakbrook Finance asked about Mr Ss financial circumstances by checking 
his credit file and verifying his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went far 
enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 24 months and Oakbrook Finance needed to 
ensure the repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of 
time;
There were two defaults registered against Mr Ss name and both had balances 
that remained outstanding. This ought to have caused Oakbrook Finance 
concerns about Mr Ss ability to repay the loan as and when the instalments fell 
due.For the above reasons, I consider Oakbrook Finances checks should have included a full 
review of Mr Ss financial circumstances, including further verification of his expenditure so 
it could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable.
I need to think about what Oakbrook Finance would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. Our adjudicator asked Mr S to provide his bank statements from 
around the time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that 
Oakbrook Finance should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements would give 
me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
Mr S has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and around 
when he took out the loan though. So, I havent been able to see what Oakbrook Finance 
would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I am 
unable to safely conclude that Mr S was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman