DRN-3381941
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead, Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Mr C took out a £13,172.72 loan for debt consolidation purposes in October 2017. 
The loan was for 84 months with a monthly repayment of £265.36. With interest, the 
total amount payable was £22,290.24. 
Mr C doesnt think the loan should have been approved. He said it was clear hed 
been struggling in the months just prior to taking out the loan. And he said that 
keeping up with the loan payments made his situation worse. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He ultimately concluded that the checks 
werent reasonable or proportionate. He asked Mr C for more information about his 
circumstances and essential spending at the time. And he felt that, had Lloyds 
conducted further checks, it would have found that Mr C only had around £65 
remaining each month after his essential spending and the loan payments. 
Lloyds disagreed. It said it had made sufficient checks before approving the loan. It 
also believed Mr Cs disposable income to have been much higher than £65, as it 
said it couldnt see enough evidence on the statements of the essential spending 
amounts hed told our service about. And it noted that Mr Cs borrowing had cost him 
£309 per month before the loan  so had been reduced to around £265 per month as 
a result of the loan. Hed been able to keep up with repayments for around two years. 
The complaint was passed to me. I got in touch with both parties in an attempt to 
resolve the complaint at the earliest possible stage, as our rules encourage. It 
became apparent that the issue of affordability largely relied on Mr Cs rental 
payment at the time  hed told Lloyds it was £600 at the time of sale but had notified 
us that it was actually £1,000, which could be evidenced by statements. 
Following my informal communication with both parties, I let Mr C know that I wasnt 
minded to uphold his complaint. I felt that Lloyds should have conducted further 
checks but, had it done so, it would have likely concluded that the loan was 
affordable and that the consolidation of debts had reduced Mr Cs outgoings each 
month which was the focus at the time.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a formal decision. He maintains that Lloyds should 
have done extra checks and that this would have revealed his full outgoings, 
including his rent. While the monthly payments reduced, he feels that the debt 
situation was prolonged and he was exposed to more fixed debt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed the case again, I dont uphold the complaint  Ill explain why.
Lloyds asked Mr C for his income and his rental payments. It obtained information 
about unsecured credit commitments from internal data and a credit reference 
agency. And it then used an internal model to calculate essential living costs. But, 
given the amount of the loan and the significant length of it, alongside the purpose of 
the loan  debt consolidation  I dont think the checks Lloyds carried out were 
sufficient.
Had Lloyds carried out further checks, its hard to safely say now what it wouldve 
found in terms of essential spending at the time. I say this because statements from 
just prior to the loan largely show items such as cash withdrawals. Mr C has told us 
these wouldve been for essential spending, such as food, but I recognise that its 
much harder to recall what cash withdrawals wouldve been for several years after 
the event. However, as I dont think it makes a difference to the overall outcome of 
this complaint, Ill proceed on the basis of the figures Mr C has provided for his 
essential spending while his complaint has been with us. This is with the exception of 
the rental payment which Ill move onto now. 
At the time of taking out the loan, Mr C told Lloyds that his rental payments were 
£600 per month, and he signed a declaration to this effect. But he told our 
investigator that the payments were £1,000 per month. He explained to me that he 
was living with his partner so his intended contribution was £600 each month, as they 
were both working, but that he would top this up if his partner wasnt able to pay. 
Mr C told me that, had Lloyds checked his statements, it wouldve seen that his 
payments were far higher than stated on his application.
But Mr C also told me that he didnt give the best representation of his rent as he was 
in a time of great need and was worried about his finances, so gave the best case 
scenario. Had Lloyds done further checks and found out that his contractual rent 
payment was actually higher, it seems likely to me that Mr C wouldve explained that 
he split the cost of rent with his partner which doesnt seem unreasonable, and is 
what he presented to me as being the case. And had Lloyds questioned why Mr C 
sometimes made payments above £600, it seems likely to me that he wouldve also 
explained this in a way that was favourable to his loan application. For example, he 
may have paid the rent in full in exchange for his partner covering alternative costs. 
So, had Lloyds conducted further checks in relation to rent, I dont think it wouldve 
thought Mr Cs explanation was unreasonable or unusual  and I dont think this 
wouldve impacted his loan application. 
So, given that Mr Cs rental contribution was £600 (except for when he needed to 
top-up his partners rent), his disposable income starts to look more like £465 per  
month, as opposed to £65 per month. And this doesnt suggest irresponsible or 
unaffordable lending to me.
Mr C also raised that Lloyds didnt question him about the changes in his travel costs 
that hed be incurring shortly after the loan was taken out. But this would rely on Mr C 
notifying it of this  Lloyds couldnt reasonably be expected to predict this and theres 
no record that Mr C told Lloyds about this prior to, or during, the application. And 
Mr C has already told us that he wanted to present his situation as positively as possible, so I dont think its likely he wouldve declared this. So I dont think Lloyds 
has made an error here in not identifying a potential future cost implication.
Im persuaded that Mr Cs intention at that time was to reduce his monthly outgoings 
by consolidating his loans. Theres a suggestion Mr C found it challenging to manage 
his finances, given that he was regularly in his (arranged) overdraft, occasionally 
exceeded it, and had a number of outstanding debts. But this loan was used solely 
for debt consolidation purposes  so Mr C didnt take on new debt by taking it out. 
And his monthly payments did reduce from over £300 to around £265. He was also 
able to meet the repayments for approximately two years. When asked what 
happened that made payments unaffordable, he referenced the cost of living 
increasing, but this wasnt something Lloyds could necessarily have predicted. So 
here, it looks like the loan was used for its intended purpose and was affordable for a 
considerable period of time. 
If Mr C hadnt taken out this loan, he would still have been required to pay over £300 
per month. He told us that, if he hadnt taken out this loan, he wouldve approached 
his creditors to make arrangements with them individually. But, based on evidence 
provided by Lloyds, Mr C has given an indication that he wouldnt have wanted to 
make arrangements that negatively impacted his credit score. So it seems unlikely to 
me that he wouldve wanted to enter into plans with each lender  and this loan 
meant he didnt have to.
So, based on all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds did sufficient checks 
before lending to Mr C. But, had it done so, I dont think further checks would have 
impacted its decision to lend to Mr C. He wanted to consolidate his debts and was 
keen to present a positive picture of his circumstances to Lloyds, which wouldnt 
have been unreasonable to accept as accurate. While Im sorry that the loan has 
ultimately become unaffordable for Mr C, I dont think it would be fair to say that this 
is due to the action (or inaction) of Lloyds. But I would expect it to work with him to 
reach a viable way forward in light of any financial difficulties he may currently be 
experiencing.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman