DRN-3070703
The complaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to change her packaged bank 
account (PBA) into a standard current account when she requested it; and that she has paid 
unnecessary fees as a result. 
What happened
Ms R had had a NatWest PBA since 1999. In 2015 Ms R complained that the PBA had been 
mis-sold to her. NatWest agreed with the complaint, and gave her a refund of most of the 
fees shed paid. 
Ms Rs representative, who is a close relative, says that she gave NatWest instructions on 
the phone to change the bank account. This was in 2015 soon after the complaint was 
upheld. She says that Ms R has continued paying for the PBA even though it offers her no 
useful benefits. 
NatWest didnt accept it had been asked to change the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms R didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2015, when it agreed with Ms Rs complaint, it told her
As your Advantage Gold account is still currently active, should you decide you wish 
to convert to a fee free account then you can do this by visiting your local NatWest 
branch or by telephoning 0800 616 848 between 8am and 8pm Monday  Friday or 
between 9am and 6pm Saturday
Ms Rs representative says she remembers phoning NatWest and them agreeing to change 
the account to a fee free one. NatWest says it has no record of this phone call. It says it sent 
out annual statements of eligibility, saying about the PBA account benefits fees; and that the 
fees appeared on the bank statements. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that NatWest failed to carry out instructions unless I 
had reasonable evidence of it. Although I dont at all doubt that the representative recalls 
making a phone call, Im also aware that memories can often be unreliable. So it wouldnt be 
fair to rely just on what the representative now remembers. Also, even if NatWest had failed 
to carryout instructions, the later annual reminders and the bank statements would mean 
NatWest had drawn attention to the continuing fees. And so the amount of compensation I 
would have offered would have been very limited. 
Overall, I dont really have strong enough evidence to fairly say NatWest did something 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman