DRN-4216139
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (The Prudential) caused 
delay in dealing with his pension and he had lost out.
What happened
Mr B said he called the Prudential in early August 2022. He was told his transfer value was 
around £170,000. He was then told he needed to be transferred to a hub who dealt with 
annuities for the Prudential but it didnt call back as quickly as he wanted and he had to 
chase them. He was eventually referred to the hub. In mid-August an annuity quote was 
requested. The Prudential accepted it had caused delay and offered £175 for this. Mr Bs 
policy was subject to an adjustment in early September 2022 which reduced its value and he 
complained the delay meant he missed out.
The Prudential said the cost of securing income could change at any time. It accepted there 
had been a delay in its service and offered £175 for this. It later increased this to £275 to 
include delay in setting up his pension in 2023. It said it would consider compensation for 
financial loss. It paid compensation for the financial loss caused by the delay in 2023. But 
said there was no evidence of loss in 2022 because Mr B had not taken steps to accept his 
annuity quote.
The investigator said Mr B was put in touch with the annuity hub on 11 August 2022. The 
Prudential would not have released his pension until he had received advice about the most 
suitable annuity, completed the papers and submitted them before the reduction in value in 
early September 2022. He didnt think the Prudential were responsible for any delays after 
Mr B was put in contact with the annuity hub. He said the Prudential were essentially a 
passive party waiting for instructions. He didnt think they had done anything wrong. The 
early September reduction applied to all policies of this type and not just to him, so there was 
no evidence he had been singled out.
Mr B did not agree. He said he did call the Prudential on 3 August 2022 and was put in a 
queue. He sent a secure message on the same day. He was contacted on 11 August 2022 
when they confirmed his pension value and put him through to the annuity hub. An 
appointment was made for 15 August 2022 (to get an annuity quote) and he was then 
contacted on that day. Mr B still felt the Prudential caused delay at the start. The Hub would 
have sent him paperwork that he could have signed and returned before he went on holiday 
and in good time for 5 September when his pension reduced.
Mr B said his loss was 6 further premiums of £200 per month each, 6 missed income 
payments totalling around £3,700 and a smaller lump sum of around £3,300 less. This was a 
total of about £8,300.
I issued a provisional decision in this case and said the following.
My provisional decision
There were two issues to consider:-
1. The delay in August 2022 which Mr B said meant he missed out on a higher annuity
and
2. The delay when he set up his annuity in 2023.
The delay in August 2022 which Mr B said meant he missed out on a higher annuity.
I noted Mr Bs argument that but for the delays he would be in receipt of a much higher 
pension and lump sum.
It seemed Mr B had been looking at his pension, but his retirement date was not until 2023. 
He said Prudential sent him a pension illustration every year and he could request one at 
any time which he did; these illustrations did not represent what was available on the open 
market and weren't really of much use. He didnt get an open market quote until 15 August 
2022 when he had the call with the hub.
I noted the quote was based on a transfer value of around £171,000 but the annuity quote 
said it was
guaranteed if the personal details, including his current main residential postcode are 
correct and the single payment shown on the application form is received by 13 
September 2022.
So there was time between the hub call on 15 August and the change in the transfer value 
on 5 September during which time Mr B could have accepted the higher pension quote but 
didnt.
In fact due to the time it took to request the transfer payment (which had to be received 
before 13 September 2022) that request needed to be made in good time and certainly well 
before 5 September (when the transfer value changed) for the payment to have been 
received in time for 13 September. So even if the transfer value had not changed Mr B didnt 
act to accept or try to accept the quotation in time for it to be processed and the payment 
made by 13 September.
Mr B said he went on holiday on 12/13 August 2022 (Mr B mentioned both dates to this 
service) which meant it was harder for him to complete the forms to accept the quote. I can 
see that it would have been easier for him to complete the forms at home. But it wasnt The 
Prudentials fault he went on holiday and it was harder for him to accept.
Further Mr B told this service he could have come back from holiday to complete the forms. 
But he didnt return. He said he returned on 22nd September. The fact he didnt return in 
order to accept the quote was his choice. This also did not support his claim that but for the 
delay he would have accepted the quote. I said that because the quote was due to expire on 
13 September which was before he was due to return from holiday on 22 September. So he 
would always have needed to return from holiday early to accept it.
I noted also that the pension summary document sent to Mr B dated 4 August 2022 which 
quoted a transfer value of around £171,000 noted that :-
  This value isnt guaranteed. Its sensitive to changes in market conditions, which we   
regularly review..
So if Mr B had felt this was a good transfer value and good annuity quote there was good 
reason to progress to accept without delay to avoid any change in the transfer value.I noted he called on Thursday 4 August and then on Friday 5th August he suggested 
suitable times for a call. He then had to chase on 10 August (which is just before he went on 
holiday). He had a call on 11 August and had a call with the hub and was given a quote on 
Monday 15 August 2022. I noted that as the call happened on 11 August this was still within 
the original timeframe that The Prudential had set itself to make contact (see below). So I 
didnt think there was a delay based on the timescales The Prudential set itself. But as it 
accepted there was a delay I have considered it further.
It is difficult to be certain how much more quickly it could have responded. Industry guidance 
varies and can suggest timescales for responding to requests of between 48 hours and 2 
weeks. It isnt for this service to impose timescales on the Prudential. But I noted when it 
responded on 4 August it said
Thank you for contacting us about accessing your pension. When accessing your pension, 
there are many considerations and options available. It's important we speak to you so we 
can discuss your options before helping progress the option you decide. We will aim to call 
you back within the next couple of working days and will keep trying until 11 August 2022 to 
discuss your retirement options.
This would suggest that its working standard was between 48 hours and 5 working days. But 
even if I applied the very minimum 48-hour period for a reply, Prudential would have 
responded on Tuesday 9 August 2022 and Mr B would then have been referred to the hub 
(which we know took place two working days later).
That would mean the call would have taken place on 10 or 11 August. The very earliest the 
papers could have been received was 11 or 12 August (assuming they were printed by the 
Hub and issued by post on the same day as the meeting and arrived the following day). That 
was either the day of or the day before he went on holiday. I thought that timescale was 
optimistic but possible. I am required to reach a decision based on the evidence that it was 
more likely than not that the papers would have arrived sooner. On balance, based on the 
evidence, I didnt think it was more likely than not that the papers would have arrived before 
Mr B went on holiday. I said that because it required me to take the most optimistic 
assumptions possible with no allowance for any delay in printing or postal delivery.
But even if I was wrong and they had arrived there would not have been much time to accept 
the quote and return the papers before holiday. But I also needed to decide whether I 
thought Mr B would have accepted the quote had it arrived before his holiday.
Based on the evidence I was not persuaded it would have made a difference had the papers 
arrived before holiday. I said that because while I accepted it would have been easier to 
complete papers before going away, I dont think something being easier was enough to 
demonstrate he had a settled intention to accept the quote on those terms before he went on 
holiday.
I said that because:
he didnt say there was a particular need to take his pension at that time and
he didnt take steps in good time to accept the quote that was offered and he would 
always have needed to return from holiday to accept it as it expired before 22 
September when his holiday was due to end.
it was clear that there was enough time to accept between 15 August and the quote 
expiry on 13 September. I said that because in early 2023 when Mr B did set up an 
annuity The Prudential accepted this should have taken 16 working days. There are 21 working days between those dates. Had Mr B signed and returned his acceptance 
to Prudential before 5 September (which he would have needed to do to allow 
enough time for payment to be made before 13 September), I think it would have 
been bound to make the higher payment even if it had not actually been paid out by 5 
September.
In summary and on balance having considered all the evidence I thought that:-
The Prudential didnt cause a delay within the timeframe it initially imposed on itself.
But even if that is wrong and it did cause a delay I didnt think it would have made a 
difference. That is because even had it worked within the very shortest timescale of 
48 hours, only on the most optimistic of assumptions would the papers have arrived 
before Mr B went on holiday. So on balance I thought it was more likely than not that 
they would not have arrived in time.
But even if I was wrong in that and the papers would have arrived before holiday, I 
was not persuaded Mr B would have accepted the quote for the reasons set out.
Further it wasnt The Prudentials fault Mr B went on holiday which he says prevented 
him accepting the quote in time. For those reasons on balance based on the 
evidence I didnt think The Prudential caused Mr B to miss out on the higher annuity 
and tax-free cash. So I didnt make an award for financial loss due to the events in 
2022.
Delay when setting up his annuity in 2023.
The Prudential said it accepted it delayed his transfer to set up an annuity in 2023. On 14 
February 2023 it should have transferred £118,242.96. However it said that, due to its delay, 
it actually transferred £118,760.47 on 3 March 2023.
It had been confirmed that he was now in receipt of an annuity of £8,048.64 per annum and 
that if it had not delayed his transfer, he would have been receiving an amount of £8,013.48 
per annum. As this amount is smaller than what he actually received it was satisfied he did 
not lose out in terms of the annuity value.
However, it accepted its delays also caused Mr B to miss a payment, as the annuity would 
have started earlier had it not caused a delay.
He was receiving £670.72 on the first of every month, starting from 1 April 2023. Mr B also 
received a first proportional payment of £497.63 on 9 March 2023. If it had not caused a 
delay he would have been receiving £667.79 per month starting from 1 March 2023, and 
also would have received a first proportional payment of £357.74 on 14 February 2023.
Therefore, Mr B had missed out on payment of the first proportional payment of £357.74 for 
February and missed out on £170.16 for March (£667.79, less the £497.63 actually paid).
It calculated interest on those amounts using 8% simple interest per annum, in line with 
Financial Ombudsman Service guidelines. The calculation showed an additional net interest 
amount of £17.88.
It had therefore arranged for a total payment of £545.78 to be made to Mr Bs bank account 
and he confirmed that he had received it.
It was required by HM Revenue & Customs to pay that interest net of income tax at 20%. The interest paid in this case was £17.88 net (£22.35 gross minus £4.47 tax).
I thought this was a fair and reasonable payment for the financial loss caused by that delay. 
It was also what I would have directed had I needed to do so. Because of that payment I had 
not made any further direction for financial loss.
Distress and inconvenience
I considered a payment for distress and inconvenience both for the delay in 2022 and 2023. 
Such an award was to reflect the impact on Mr B and not to punish The Prudential. Nor was 
it to cover financial loss which I had already dealt with above.
I could see that the delays were frustrating for Mr B. The first delay was for a few days but 
the delay in 2023 was for a few weeks. I could also see that Mr B needed to spend time 
chasing The Prudential. We all experience inconvenience in day-to-day life but this was 
clearly more than that.
I noted also that The Prudential accepted it caused delay and had made payment for 
financial compensation and offered £275 for distress and inconvenience. The Prudential had 
confirmed that this amount had already been paid to Mr B.
Having considered all the evidence I was provisionally of the view that an award of £275 was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances so I did not make a further award.
I proposed to uphold this complaint but I did not propose to make any further direction 
against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Mr B had nothing more to add.
The Prudential said that as I had fully agreed with what they had done the decision should 
be shown as a not uphold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the replies from the parties. I agree with the comment made my the 
Prudential so have marked by decision as a non uphold as there was no change in what 
they needed to do.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman