DRN-3142100
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr F complain that Nationwide Building Society allowed an 
unauthorised third party to access the funds in his account to pay for funeral expenses. 
The estate is represented by Mr Fs daughters, Ms F and Miss F. 
What happened
Mr F had two accounts with Nationwide. His current account was in his sole name; the 
second account was held jointly with his friend, Miss S. 
Mr F sadly passed away on 11 May 2020, whilst he was staying at Miss Ss home. Ms F and 
Miss F have told us that they informed Nationwide of this three days later  and that they 
asked for his accounts to be frozen due to concerns that Miss S had possession of Mr Fs 
bank cards, death certificate, green form and passport. 
On 19 May 2020 Nationwide sent a letter of acknowledgement to Ms F, confirming that 
theyd updated their records to safeguard her late fathers sole accounts and to stop any 
further marketing communications being sent. They asked her to send them the death 
certificate.
On 21 May 2020 Miss S visited a Nationwide branch. She informed them that Mr F had 
passed away and presented the death certificate, together with an invoice for funeral 
expenses totalling £8,140. Nationwide issued a cheque from Mr Fs current account, made 
payable to the funeral company. 
Ms F and Miss F complained that Nationwide shouldnt have accepted Miss Ss instruction to 
make this payment, because she wasnt authorised to represent their late fathers estate and 
the accounts should have been frozen. But Nationwide said they hadnt made any error. 
They said proper checks were completed before theyd issued the cheque for funeral 
expenses  and that all remaining funds were safeguarded. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Nationwide had correctly followed 
their process for releasing funds to cover funeral costs, because these are considered a 
priority for payment. She said there was no requirement for funeral expenses to be paid only 
to a personal representative or family member, provided appropriate documentation was 
provided. 
The investigator was satisfied that Nationwide had made out a cheque payable directly to 
the funeral service provider - and that theyd checked that this was in fact a funeral 
company. She thought Nationwide had safeguarded the accounts, because no money was 
passed directly to Miss S. She said that, as Mr F was Nationwides customer, she wouldnt 
consider it unreasonable for them to release funds to pay for his funeral without contacting 
his family.
Ms F and Miss F didnt agree. They said theyd asked Nationwide to put a block on the 
accounts because there was a dispute over their late fathers assets  and in those 
circumstances they didnt feel it was fair for Nationwide to allow anyone who turned up with a 
death certificate and passport to instruct a payment to be made. They felt policies should be 
applied on a fair and individual basis.  They said they felt their right to bury their father had 
been taken from them due to Nationwides policy of allowing money to be released without 
the familys knowledge or permission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further, Id like to express my condolences to Mr Fs family. Ms F and Miss 
F have told us that they considered their father to be very vulnerable  and that hed been 
reliant on help with his personal finances from his long-standing friend, Miss S. I can 
understand their desire to make sure she wasnt able to take unfair advantage of this 
position of trust.
Nationwide have confirmed that they received notification of the bereavement on 14 May 
2020. Theyve provided evidence showing that, following this initial notification, they put a 
stop on withdrawals and card transactions. So, Im satisfied that they took prompt action to 
safeguard the accounts. 
But the issue of concern to Ms F and Miss F is the payment of funeral expenses from their 
fathers sole account. Nationwide say they correctly followed their bereavement processes. 
Theyve told us that they treat payments for funeral expenses as a priority, and that their 
policy allows them to release funds from the deceaseds account for this purpose. 
Ms F and Miss F say Miss S wrongly held herself out to be a personal representative  and 
that Nationwide shouldnt have released the funds without requesting further evidence or 
carrying out proper checks to verify this. They feel very strongly that they should have been 
contacted about payment of funeral expenses, because theyd made Nationwide aware that 
there was a dispute. Ive given careful thought to the points theyve made.
Ive seen evidence confirming Nationwide wouldnt permit funds to be withdrawn from Mr Fs 
accounts without a grant of probate or letters of administration, proving who had authority to 
administer his estate. And Im unable to say that it was unfair, or unreasonable, for them to 
follow their usual policy in relation to payment of the funeral expenses.
 
Im satisfied that Nationwide exercised appropriate diligence in ensuring funeral expenses 
were payable from Mr Fs estate. Theyd seen a copy of the death certificate, together with 
the funeral companys invoice, before authorising payment. And the evidence Ive seen 
shows they made the cheque payable directly to the funeral company concerned  and not 
to Miss S. 
I do appreciate how upsetting Ms F and Miss F have found this situation. But Nationwides 
customer was Mr F - and Im unable to say theyve treated his estate unfairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Corinne BrownOmbudsman