DRN-3998715
The complaint
Mr S, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted his loans. Had it done so, Morses 
wouldve realised he couldnt afford the repayments. 
What happened
Mr S was advanced five home collected loans between August 2017 and 
November 2019. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in 
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentshighest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £400.00 22/08/2017 20/02/2018 33 £20.00
2 £500.00 15/12/2017 12/11/2018 52 £17.50
3 £800.00 22/11/2018 01/10/2019 52 £28.00
4 £500.00 13/06/2019 06/05/2020 52 £17.50
5 £1,000.00 29/11/2019 19/11/2020 53 £35.00
Following Mr Ss complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint. Mr Ss representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loan 1 so he didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint about it. 
The adjudicator said when loan 2 was approved, as there was an outstanding loan, Mr S 
was committed to spending a significant portion of his income in servicing the loan and so he 
upheld the complaint about loans 2 and 3. Finally, he thought the lending was now harmful 
for Mr S by the time loans 4 and 5 were granted and so he upheld Mr Ss complaint about 
those loans as well. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below:
Only 24% of Mr Ss income  which was made up of benefits was used to service 
loans 1 and 2. 
The loans were repaid without undue difficulty and Mr S had a good repayment 
history. 
There was a 10-day break after repaying loan 2 and before taking loan 3. 
Relevant checks were completed before each loan was approved which showed the 
loans to be affordable. 
Mr Ss income was verified using the benefit documentation he supplied. 
For loans 4 and 5, Morses used Office of National Statistics (ONS) information to 
pre-populate minimum amounts for items such as rent, council tax, transport, 
insurance and groceries. 
Mr Ss representative confirmed it had received the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided.  
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Mr Ss complaint from loan 4. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.Neither Morses nor Mr S (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loan 1. I therefore no longer think the loan is in dispute. So, I say 
no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether loans 2  5 ought to have been 
granted. 
Loans 2 and 3
For loan 2, Mr S declared an income of £153 per week and Morses said this was verified 
with the benefit information Mr S provided  although it hasnt provided details of what 
documentation it received from him. 
Mr Ss outgoings were declared as being £75 for the week  which included the £20 a week 
repayment Mr S was already making to Morses for loan 1. This left, Mr S with £78 per week 
in disposable income to afford the repayment of £17.50. 
However, with the outstanding Morses loan Mr S was due to pay it a total of £38.50 per 
week  which is more than a quarter of Mr Ss total weekly income  and he was committed 
to paying this for a number of months, given that he still had time left to repay loan 1 and 
loan 2 was due to be repaid over the course of a year. 
So, the repayment for loan 2, in my view, represented a significant proportion of Mr Ss 
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr S wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. 
For loan 3, the percentage of his income which Mr S was due to have to use to pay 
decreased because there were no overlapping loan, and he also declared an increase to his 
weekly income. But, the fact he needed to return fairly quickly for a new loan is evidence that 
he was unlikely to have been able to sustainably meet his weekly repayments for this loan  
and likely any subsequent loans without borrowing again.
Loans 4 - 5 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mr S for details of his income and 
expenditure. For loans 4 Mr S declared he was still in receipt of benefits and received weekly 
income of £281.30 and for loan 5 he declared an income of £252. Morses also says this 
information was checked with a credit reference agency  but the results of that check 
havent been provided. 
In terms of expenditure, while it had increased since the earlier loans, for these two it 
remained fairly stable with weekly outgoings of £138.55 when loan 4 was granted and 
£130.50 when loan 5 was advanced. 
This left a minimum weekly disposable income of £121.50 when loan 5 was granted. Based 
solely on Mr Ss income and expenditure information Morses couldve been reasonably 
confident he would be able to afford the repayments he was committed to making for these 
loans. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mr S had been 
indebted to Morses, his future weekly commitment, loan term and what Morses already knew 
about Mr Ss finances. For example, Mr S having loans running concurrently. So, I do think 
its fair to say that at this point in time, Morses ought to have done more  beyond relying on 
the ONS and what Mr S was providing about his expenditure. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have 
verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out 
further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mr S. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did as well as the percentage of his 
income Mr S would need to use to repay these loans, Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taking out his four loans in 22 months. So Morses ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not he was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
From his first loan, Mr S was generally provided with a new loan while he already had 
outstanding loans. To me, this is a sign that Mr S was using these loans to fill a long-
term gap in his income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Ss weekly commitments usually 
increased with each loan, when loan 4 was granted his commitment was more than 
double the amount due for loan 1. However, the fact that these loans were lent in a 
concurrent manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent sustainable 
anymore. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out 27 months after Mr Ss first loan and was to be repaid over a year. His final 
loan was also his largest capital loan to date and as loan 4 was still outstanding it 
resulted in his largest weekly repayment due to Morses of £52.50. Mr S had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr S lost out when Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 2  5 and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needs to do in order to put things right.  Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it had stopping lending from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mr S with loans 2, 3, 4 and 5. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to loans 2 and 3. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 4 and 5 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these 
loans entirely from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman