DRN-3174399
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank 
account without explanation and declined its application for a Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan.
Mr C is the companys director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
B held a business current account with HSBC. It applied to the bank for a loan under the 
Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme in late March 2020.
The bank wrote to B on 15 April 2020 to say that following a review of the account, it had 
decided to withdraw its services and would be closing Bs account on 15 June 2020. 
On 15 June 2020, Bs relationship manager advised Mr C that the CBIL application had been 
approved. But the following day, Mr C discovered that he was unable to access Bs online 
account. After querying this with his relationship manager, he was told that the account was 
closed and the bank wouldnt be able to proceed with the CBIL application. 
Mr C complained, but HSBC maintained its decision on both the account and the CBIL  so 
he referred his concerns to us. He said that the bank hadnt given B notice of the account 
closure or explained what was happening and that it was now virtually impossible to obtain 
an alternative bank account, given the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. So 
the banks actions would leave B unable to access the financial support it needed through 
the CBIL scheme  with significant consequences for the company.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
She said, in summary, that HSBC had been entitled to close Cs account and had provided 
the company with two months notice of the closure in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions. And although it was disappointing that HSBC had led Mr C to hope that Bs CBIL 
application would be successful, it had failed the banks checks and had therefore been 
declined correctly.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint  so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I 
thought Bs complaint should be upheld in part. This represented a change from our 
investigators view, so I gave HSBC and B the opportunity to respond with any additional 
comments or evidence they wanted me to take into account before I made a final decision. 
In summary, I said:
HSBC had been entitled to withdraw its services from B. The bank had done so in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account, by giving two months 
notice. And while Mr C had said that hed been unaware of HSBCs decision to close 
Bs account until 16 June 2020, I could see that the bank had written to the company 
at its registered address with the requisite notice  so if the letter had gone astray, 
that wasnt due to an error on the banks part.
Although I appreciated that the pandemic meant that B was likely to have faced 
additional challenges in opening an account elsewhere, I still thought two months 
was a reasonable period of time in which to make alternative arrangements.
With regard to the CBIL application, the bank had to conduct a number of checks 
before lending. As Bs application had failed those checks, it was declined. Having 
reviewed the information on which HSBCs decision was based, I thought it was 
reasonable. I couldnt see that the incorrect information Mr C had been given about 
the approval  which was corrected a day later  had impacted the company.
HSBC had, though, made mistakes in how it handled the CBIL application. It had 
decided to close Bs account while the application was pending and its reasons for 
doing so meant that it was never going to agree the CBIL. So the bank ought to have 
known by 15 April 2020, at the latest, that the CBIL would not be approved  and 
cancelled Bs application accordingly. But it didnt do this. It had proceeded to liaise 
with B about the application, and in doing so had put the company so some 
avoidable inconvenience. For this, I thought HSBC should pay B compensation of 
£150.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided any further information for me to 
take into account, Ive not reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay B compensation of 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman