DRN-3582624
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the service received by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure). She says 
the issues she is complaining about have led to ReAssure not acting fairly when it encashed 
her portfolio bond.
What happened
Mrs S bought a portfolio bond from a third party. ReAssure took over responsibility for 
managing the bond in September 2020. In September 2020 Mrs S applied to ReAssure to 
have access online to manage and monitor her bond. She says ReAssure notified her that 
her application was successful, and that it would contact her about activation, but she heard 
no more about this.
On 21 January 2021 Mrs S wrote to ReAssure and requested that it fully encash the bond. 
ReAssure has told our service that this letter was received by it on 22 January 2021. 
ReAssure then contacted Mrs S on 28 January 2021 and asked her for some further 
information that it says it needed before it could go ahead and encash the bond. Mrs S gave 
it the information it required. It then informed her that the indicative value of the bond as of 
the end of the previous day, was £316,415.76. 
Mrs S says she then received a letter on 13 February 2021 from ReAssure, notifying her of 
the final encashed value of the bond, this being £314,129.10. This amount was then paid 
into Mrs Ss account on 17 February 2021. 
Mrs S has made several complaint points to ReAssure and then to our service. These are 
that ReAssure:
Failed to provide online access to allow her to monitor the account and decide when 
was the best time to encash the bond and then didnt respond to her complaint about 
this.
Failed to encash the bond timely on receipt of her written request. This resulted in 
Mrs S receiving less when the bond was encashed. Mrs S requested information 
from ReAssure about this, including a daily valuation of the bond. And it hasnt 
provided this.
Added interest to the final payment but has not made any attempt to understand her 
potential loss or answer any questions about this. She says ReAssure has not 
responded to her complaint properly. 
ReAssure says it needed further information from Mrs S before it could encash her bond and 
this is why it contacted her on 28 January 2021. It says it encashed the bond on the same 
day and then at a later date sent her a letter informing her of the value of the encashment. It 
responded to Mrs S and offered her a payment of £250 due to the amount of time it took to 
pay the encashed amount to her. It apologised and said it took longer than it should have 
because of very high customer demand and in some cases, it has taken longer than normal 
to respond to requests. It then said that it added an interest payment of £142 for the 
additional time it took to pay the encashed amount to Mrs Ss account.
Mrs S was not happy with ReAssures response. So, an investigator from our service looked 
into her complaint. He sent his view to both parties and didnt think ReAssure had acted 
fairly. He made the following findings:
He acknowledged that ReAssure had offered £250 and an apology for the time taken 
for it to pay the encashed amount to Mrs S.
He recommended ReAssure pay a further £100 for the lack of online access for Mrs 
S and not responding to her complaint about this.
He then said a product guide given for the bond states that the value for the 
encashment will be calculated on the second working day after receipt of a letter. 
And that the unit price is calculated on that day. 
He went on to conclude that ReAssure should have encashed the bond by 26 
January 2021 at the latest as it received the letter from Mrs S on 22 January 2021. 
He said to put things right, ReAssure should calculate the encashment on 26 January 
rather than 28 January. It should then pay Mrs S the difference (if it is a higher 
amount) and add interest on this from the encashment date to the present.
ReAssure responded and said it had already apologised for the delay in paying the 
encashed amount to Mrs S and offered £250 along with an interest payment. It says this was 
a generous offer as it was only one working day over the time frame it would normally work 
to. It has latterly also said it had already included compensation for the lack of online access 
in its offer of £250. 
It then went on to say that the product guide states that Mrs S would have needed to write to 
it to encash her bond and also include a schedule. Something it says, she didnt do. It says 
that although it also didnt ask for a schedule from Mrs S, it did need to seek further 
information from her before it could carry out her instructions, something that it did on 28 
January when it called her. ReAssure did not agree with the investigators findings and felt it 
had already done enough to resolve Mrs Ss complaint.
As the parties are not in agreement, Mrs Ss complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure has paid Mrs S £250 and apologised to her. It said initially that this was because 
of the time it took to pay her the encashed amount. It also added interest to the proceeds for 
the amount of additional time this took. The investigator felt this was reasonable. I also dont 
have anything further to add or say regarding this part of Mrs Ss complaint. 
There are two points though to Mrs Ss complaint that are left unresolved. Mrs S says 
ReAssure failed to provide online access to allow her to monitor her account. She says it 
also didnt respond to her complaint about this. And then secondly, she says it failed to 
encash the bond in a timely manner, and this has meant she has potentially incurred a loss. 
So, I have looked into these two issues further.Online access
Mrs S says she applied for online access to her account. Then, on 27 November 2020 
ReAssure sent a letter to Mrs S where it notified her that she had been successful but that it 
would contact her again when it was ready to activate her online account. Mrs S said she 
then heard no more from ReAssure about this and did not receive a response when she 
made a complaint about this. She said she was unable to monitor her account and decide 
when the best time to encash her bond was. She went on to put in a request to encash the 
bond anyway on 21 January 2021.
ReAssure did not address this part of Mrs Ss complaint when it responded to her. It more 
recently has told our service that that it has already paid £250 to Mrs S in respect of issues 
surrounding her online access. But it didnt make this clear within its response to her. In any 
case, I agree with the investigator, that an additional £100 payment is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint, in addition to the £250 already paid by ReAssure. I think 
£100 is fair compensation for the frustration that Mrs S would have felt in not being able to 
resolve this issue with ReAssure, or having a response to her complaint and also for not 
being able to access her account online. 
Encashment of the bond
Mrs S wrote to ReAssure on 21 January 2021 to request that the bond be encashed. Mrs S 
has provided our service with a couple of pages from the product guide for the bond. It says 
within these pages, that the encashment value will be calculated on the second working day 
after receipt of receiving a letter and a schedule. I cant see that any revised documentation 
was sent out by ReAssure when it took over management of the bond, and neither party has 
provided anything within the documentation that they have submitted to our service. So, in 
the absence of anything else, I think the pages provided from the product guide gives me the 
best idea as to what Mrs S would have expected ReAssure to do when she looked to encash 
her bond, and what ReAssure ought to have done when it received instructions to do so.
ReAssure says it received Mrs Ss letter on 22 January 2021. It then says it contacted Mrs S, 
5 working days later on 28 January 2021 to clarify some points with her before it went ahead 
and followed her instructions. It says this is because it received forms from Mrs S, but these 
were incomplete. It called her on 28 January 2021 to obtain the missing requirements over 
the phone. It then encashed Mrs Ss bond on that day after it had done this. It says Mrs S did 
not follow the requirements on the product guide, that states that someone needs to write in 
and also add their schedule. It says she didnt add her schedule. Albeit, it admits it didnt 
then ask her about this when it contacted her.  
I have looked at the product guide carefully. I can see that it does state that someone would 
need to write in and add their schedule if they want to encash their bond. So, I acknowledge 
the point ReAssure are making here. But it didnt ask Mrs S for this and the missing 
Schedule document wasnt the reason for its call on the 28 January 2021 or the reason for 
the delay. ReAssure didnt attempt to or make contact with Mrs S within the two working 
days that the product guide states it should take to encash a bond. I would have expected 
ReAssure to do this and make contact with Mrs S within two working days to either request 
the schedule as stated in the product guide or to ask Mrs S for what it says were missing 
requirements that it needed to have, to encash the bond. 
ReAssure instead took four working days to contact Mrs S rather than two working days 
stated within the product guide. I think it should have encashed Mrs Ss bond by the latest 26 
January 2021 or have made contact with Mrs S by this date to request the additional 
information, but it did neither. So, it follows that I agree with the investigator, that ReAssure should put things right here and put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if the bond 
had been encashed on the 26 January 2021, as she would have reasonably expected it to.  
In conclusion, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint about ReAssure and its now time for it to put 
things right.
Putting things right
ReAssure has already paid Mrs S £250 that it says is for the time taken for it to pay her the 
proceeds of the encashment. It has also apologised for this and added interest for the 
additional time taken for this amount to be paid into her bank account. 
For the reasons given above, in addition ReAssure needs to: 
Pay Mrs S £100 for the frustrations caused by not dealing with her complaint about 
not being able to gain access online to her account. 
Find out how much the surrender value of the bond would have been if it had been 
encashed on 26 January 2021. If this is a higher amount than her actual encashment 
figure from 28 January 2021, ReAssure should pay her the difference. If there is an 
amount for ReAssure to repay, it should add interest at 8% simple from 26 January 
2021 to the day it repays the amount back to Mrs S. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint about ReAssure Limited and direct it to put 
things right, as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman