DRN-1207086
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy about Aviva Insurance Limited declining his claim for storm damage under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E found that a leak was coming in through his roof, so he made a claim. Aviva considered 
the claim but declined it. It said the damage was caused by wear and tear and not storm 
damage. Unhappy with this Mr E brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the evidence provided by the drone 
inspection arranged by Aviva was persuasive. Our investigator accepted Avivas stance that 
there was no sign of storm damage and the most likely cause of the damage was wear and 
tear.
Mr E didnt accept this and asked for his case to be passed on to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
For question one Mr E said he didnt use the room where the damage first occurred very 
often, so it was difficult to pin down an exact date for the damage. So, that means theres no 
clear answer for this point.
However, regarding question two Aviva is clear that the damage was consistent with wear 
and tear. It arranged the drone inspection as Mr E was unhappy with the original decision to 
decline the claim. Aviva said the drone could get more detail and get to into the most 
awkward places to get images. Based on the evidence from the drone Aviva referred to the 
slipped, chipped and displaced tiles. It said this problem had been occurring over a period of 
time. Aviva confirmed this was consistent with general weathering over time. It also referred 
to significant evidence of previous repair attempts and therefore on-going leaks. Aviva said 
there was nothing to suggest a one-off storm event. So, the answer to question two is no.
This means the answer to question three is also no.
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for a valid storm claim. So, based on the 
evidence Ive seen I think Aviva acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim.
I note that at one stage Mr E suggested he would go down the legal route with Aviva. I can 
confirm Mr E is perfectly entitled to take court proceedings against Aviva as long he doesnt 
accept my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman