DRN-2803595
The complaint
Ms S and Mr S complain that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited failed to 
retrospectively underwrite a previous life and critical illness policy when they applied for a 
new policy in 2002. Theyre unhappy that L&G accepted a joint application in 2020 only to 
then decline a further application a few months later. 
Ms S has mainly been involved in bringing the complaint to this service, so for ease Ill 
mainly refer to her throughout the decision. 
What happened
In 2000 Ms S applied for a joint life and critical illness policy. In 2003 she submitted a critical 
illness claim following a diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) which was declined due to 
misrepresentation when she applied for the policy. Ms S brought her complaint to this 
service in 2006 but we didnt uphold it. Ill refer to this as policy A. 
In 2002 Ms S applied to L&G for a joint life and critical illness policy. The life policy was 
accepted but L&G rejected the critical illness part due to Ms Ss past symptoms. Ill refer to 
this as policy B. 
In April 2020 Ms S applied for a joint life insurance policy with L&G through an Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA). The application was accepted, and premiums started but after some 
inaccuracies were noticed on the application, Ms S was told to apply for another policy in 
June 2020. This application wasnt accepted. Ms S felt this was unfair and thought L&G had 
discriminated against her under the Equality Act 2010, so she made a complaint. 
Ms S said she would like this service to review the outcome it reached in 2006 when it said 
she had misrepresented her medical history when taking out policy A. And that L&Gs failure 
to retrospectively underwrite policy A when she applied for policy B has meant policy A 
carried on running when it shouldve been reviewed and/or cancelled. If policy A had been 
cancelled, Ms S said she couldve taken out a policy with another provider which wouldve 
provided her cover for her MS claim in 2003. 
Ms S said that L&G had discriminated against her in 2020 when its automated system 
declined her application only a matter of months after shed been offered cover. She said her 
medical history meant she was covered under the Equality Act 2010 and L&G hadnt 
provided enough evidence to show her application should be declined.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think L&G could 
reasonably be expected to retrospectively underwrite policy A when Ms S applied for policy 
B. And he didnt think the complaint about the 2020 applications should be upheld. He said 
he didnt think L&G had a duty to review policy A when it found out about Ms Ss past 
symptoms when she was applying for policy B. He said that although L&G had said the 
reason this wasnt picked up was because it thought Ms S was a different applicant, he 
wouldnt have expected L&G to review policy A anyway. 
The investigator added that Ms Ss complaint about her 2020 applications shouldnt be 
upheld. He said L&G had admitted that it made mistakes when considering these 
applications, but he didnt think it had failed to follow the Equality Act 2010 when it didnt ask 
for a medical report for the second application. And the investigator was satisfied the 
underwriting evidence and explanation explained why L&G wouldnt be prepared to accept 
cover for Ms Ss second application in this instance. The investigator said the £300 L&G had 
offered for the way it handled Ms Ss complaint was fair and reasonable. 
Ms S disagreed with the investigators opinion in relation to policy A and asked for an 
Ombudsmans review. She said L&G had a duty to cancel policy A when it declined her 
application for policy B. She said L&G wouldve been aware of the symptoms when she 
applied for policy B. So, it shouldve reviewed and cancelled policy A. She added that L&Gs 
failure to review policy A meant it continued to take her premiums which constitutes an 
acceptance that policy A was still valid at the time of her claim in 2003. And that the claim 
should therefore be paid. 
I considered the complaint and agreed with the investigators findings that L&G didnt have to 
retrospectively underwrite policy A as a result of new evidence Ms S has obtained. And that 
this service wouldnt reconsider the misrepresentation complaint. I also felt L&G had fairly 
offered £300 for the way it handled Ms Ss complaint and hadnt unfairly reviewed Ms Ss 
medical details when assessing her complaint. 
But I felt L&G hadnt treated Ms S fairly when it declined her second application in 2020 
because it couldnt provide medical evidence to support its underwriting criteria. As a result, 
L&G agreed to offer Ms S a further £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused when it declined her second application in 2020. It also offered to accept the second 
policy Ms S and Mr S applied for jointly in 2020, and to return the premiums on the first 
policy they applied for in 2020. 
Ms S and Mr S decided to request a refund of the premiums they paid towards the first policy 
they applied for in 2020 and not to accept L&Gs offer to commence the second 2020 
application. Ms S also accepted the £1,000 compensation from L&G. 
But she didnt accept what I said in relation to her previous claim in 2003 and that L&G didnt 
have to retrospectively underwrite policy A. She said she has new evidence that when she 
applied for policy B, L&G was aware of her medical history which predated the start date of 
policy A, and that she told L&G when she applied for policy B that policy A was already 
active. Ms S says this shows L&G shouldve retrospectively underwritten policy A which 
wouldve led to it being cancelled. And if it had done so, she couldve found another policy 
elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. Firstly, Ms S has raised some points about the review of her 2006 complaint to this service. 
She thinks the new evidence she has provided shows the outcome wasnt correct. Im 
satisfied the misrepresentation complaint has already been considered, so it would be 
inappropriate for me to revisit that now. Thats because L&G is entitled to expect closure to a 
complaint in such circumstances. Especially when considering the time that has passed 
since this matter was first raised by Ms S, and Im satisfied  its more likely than not - the 
adjudicator wouldve considered the underwriting information at the time when she felt L&G 
correctly declined Ms Ss 2003 claim based upon the answers Ms S gave when she applied 
for policy A. 
Ms S has said she also has new evidence that shows L&G shouldve retrospectively 
underwritten policy A when she applied for policy B and if it had done so, she couldve found 
another policy elsewhere. So, Ive considered that part of Ms Ss complaint.  
The application in 2002 and L&G not retrospectively underwriting policy A
Ms S says when L&G declined her critical illness application for policy B it shouldve 
reviewed the answers she gave when applying for policy A. And that L&G has said it 
wouldve been aware of policy A if it didnt have the wrong date of birth for Ms S. 
Ms S says L&Gs failure to act meant her claim in 2003 and the 2006 investigation by this 
service were rejected. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that L&G 
hasnt treated Ms S unfairly by not retrospectively underwriting policy A. I note Ms S has said 
she told L&G about policy A when she applied for policy B. She feels L&G had a duty to 
review the answers she had previously given and its failure to do so meant she was unable 
to seek out another insurance policy which wouldve provided critical illness cover for her MS 
in 2003. Ms S added that L&G had affirmed the contract of policy A when it rejected the 
application for policy B and carried on taking the premiums for policy A. 
L&G has said the primary reason it asks if a customer has existing cover is to assess the 
overall amount of cover the customer has. This is because the overall amount of cover can 
impact how L&G assesses the application. Its added that each application should be 
completed in full and accurately, regardless of the information that was provided previously.
  
Ive understood and considered the various points Ms S has made here. But I dont agree 
L&G had a duty to review the answers she gave for policy A in 2002. Ms S was asked on the 
application for policy B whether she had an existing policy with L&G and was then asked 
what cover she had and when that cover started. Im satisfied with L&Gs explanation which 
explains the primary reason for asking for this information is so L&G was aware of the total 
amount of cover Ms S would have with this new application. And I dont think any of the 
questions on the application for policy B infer to Ms S that the answers she gave on policy A 
would be checked and compared to the ones she gave for policy B. 
I can see Ms S said she shouldnt be held responsible for L&Gs failure to identify she 
already had an existing policy. But insurers rely on the answers given by customers to be 
accurate and not misleading. And I think its reasonable for an insurer to use its discretion 
when deciding if it wants to review a previous application. And it isnt under a duty to review 
other answers provided under previous policies if it doesnt feel its necessary to do so at the 
time. 
So, I dont think L&G treated Ms S unfairly here. I know she feels very strongly about this 
matter, but Im not going to ask L&G to do anything further in relation to policy A. The applications in 2020
L&G has said it shouldnt have accepted Ms Ss first application in 2020. It said its 
underwriting criteria said that for it to accept an application from a customer with Ms Ss 
medical background, she would need to have a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 19. And Ms S had 
a reading of 18.2. L&G explained this is why her second application was automatically 
declined by its automated system. 
Ms S says this isnt true. Shed obtained evidence that her first application was manually 
underwritten where her medical history from her GP had been considered. And L&G decided 
that it was willing to accept the risk. So, she said L&G was discriminating against her under 
the Equality Act 2010 by now refusing to accept her second application. 
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
If Ms S wants a decision that L&G has breached the Equality Act 2010, then shed need to 
go to court.
Ive reviewed the underwriting criteria L&G has provided with the additional explanations 
from its underwriting team. Its accepted it made a mistake and provided evidence to show 
the first application shouldnt have been accepted by its underwriter. Having reviewed this, 
Im satisfied that L&G shouldnt have accepted Ms Ss first application. The underwriting 
criteria does show that with Ms Ss medical history and current BMI, no cover shouldve 
been offered. So, Im satisfied the decision to reject her second application was in line with 
that criteria.
But Ms S says she has been discriminated against by L&G under the Equality Act 2010. 
L&G has said it didnt discriminate against Ms S when it rejected her second application 
because her medical history is relevant to the assessment of the risk of accepting her 
application. It says the Act allows it to decline Ms Ss application where it proportionately 
achieves a legitimate aim. 
Its not our role to say whether L&G has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I believe L&G is entitled to decide which risks it is willing to accept when reviewing an 
application. And, after reviewing the underwriting evidence, Im satisfied its provided 
evidence to show why the application was declined by its system. However, as Ms S has a 
protected condition under the Equality Act 2010, L&G needs to satisfy me that its 
underwriting criteria is based upon medical evidence explaining why Ms Ss application was 
rejected. L&G hasnt been able to provide that information here. As a result, Im not satisfied 
L&G has treated Ms S fairly here.   
L&G did offer to reinstate the joint life application Mr and Ms S applied for in June 2020 and 
place it on risk from September 2020. But Ms S and Mr S havent accepted that offer. 
Theyve decided to accept an offer for the premiums theyve paid for the first policy they 
applied for in 2020 to be refunded with interest which I think is fair.  
L&G has also agreed to pay £700 for the trouble and upset it has caused when it declined 
Ms Ss second application in 2020, which Ms S has said she is happy to accept. This seems 
reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases. 
L&Gs handling of Ms Ss complaintMs S has said L&G caused her trouble and upset when reviewing her complaint. She said 
L&G made various references to her previous medical condition and inferred that she hadnt 
recovered from this. Shes also unhappy that L&G said that due to her profession, Ms S 
should have understood her medical history. Ms S says the way L&G handled the complaint 
was offensive and discriminatory. 
I note L&G has admitted it made a mistake when accepting Ms Ss application in 2020. Its 
also accepted it made mistakes when dealing with Ms Ss complaint and that it shouldve 
handled this better. Its offered £300 for these mistakes and for the trouble and upset this 
has caused.  
I can understand why Ms S was upset with L&Gs comments and handling of her complaint. 
L&G has recognised it shouldve provided a better service and that it caused delays. I 
believe the offer of £300 shows that it has taken this complaint seriously and considered the 
impact this has had on Ms S personally.
Ms S said she is unhappy that L&G reviewed her medical records when reviewing her 
complaint without obtaining further written consent from her. She says she did sign the 
consent form for her application in April 2020, but she didnt sign a consent form for her later 
application because it was automatically declined before she could do so. She feels violated 
by this and that L&G has breached the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
Its not our role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. This is for the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. I can consider whether the business 
treated Ms S fairly and reasonably by accessing this information when it reviewed her 
complaint. Ive considered the impact of whats happened here on Ms S. Having done so, I 
dont think L&G should pay her any compensation. I dont believe it unfairly or unreasonably 
accessed her medical records when it was reviewing the complaint. Im satisfied it was 
necessary for L&G to review this information so it could decide whether the second 
application in 2020 had been assessed properly. 
Putting things right
L&G has now agreed to refund the premiums Ms S and Mr S have paid towards the first joint 
policy they applied for in 2020 with 8% interest which Ms S and Mr S have now accepted. I 
think thats a fair and reasonable offer in all the circumstances. And Im satisfied the offer of 
£1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience L&G has caused Ms S when it 
rejected her second application in 2020 and for its complaint handling is fair in all the 
circumstances - which Ms S has also accepted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  Legal & General Assurance Society 
Limited must do the following;
Refund the premiums Ms S and Mr S have paid towards the first joint policy they applied for 
in 2020 with 8% simple interest.
Pay Ms S and Mr S a total of £1,000 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Mark DobsonOmbudsman