DRN-3655535
The complaint
Mr K and Ms W complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)s handling of their
contents insurance claim.
Ms W has been the main party involved in the claim process. Therefore, I will mainly be
referring to her in my reasoning below.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full
here. But in summary, Mr K and Ms W made a claim for theft at their home. Ms W is
unhappy with the service shes received throughout the claim and has previously raised two
other complaints. RSA provided final responses for these in April 2019 and May 2019.
Following these, further issues have been raised by Ms W including:
RSAs proposed settlement of the claim  in particular for certain items of jewellery.
Ms W says RSA have not transparently set out to her their valuations of her
jewellery.
RSA have failed to provide information regarding claim options, which Ms W says
she has asked for repeatedly.
RSAs failure to respond to Ms Ws previous Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
RSAs handling of the claim and its delay in making a settlement.
There are several aspects Ms W has raised in her submissions that our service cannot
consider in this complaint. Ive set out what I cant consider, and why, below.
My decision focusses on events following RSAs final response in May 2019, up
to its most recent final response in September 2020. Any references to events outside of
these dates are purely for contextual purposes.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Why I cant consider issues raised and covered in RSAs final responses of April and May
2019
The rules say, where a business doesnt consent, I cant consider a complaint which is
referred to me more than six months after the date it sends the complainant its final
response letter advising them they may refer the complaint to this office. Dispute Resolution
rule 2.8.2R (1) can be found in the regulators handbook of rules and guidance.
RSA issued final responses on April and May 2019. So, Ms W had six months from those
dates to refer the matter to this office. However, it wasnt brought to our service in this time.
I am, however, allowed to investigate late complaints if the failure to comply with the time
limits was due to exceptional circumstances.
Ive considered what Ms W has said about continuing to escalate her complaints with RSA.
But I dont think this would have prevented Ms W from bringing her complaints to our
service. And RSA had already made clear in its final responses Ms W had six months from
the date they were issued to do so.
So, for these reasons I dont think our service can consider the issues covered in RSAs
responses of April 2019 and May 2019.
Issues raised regarding RSAs handling of Ms Ws complaints
There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a complaint,
ranging from where the activity took place (our territorial jurisdiction) to whether the activity
complained about is something we can investigate.
DISP 2.3.1R says The ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the
following activities. Following that is a list of activities that we can investigate. That means
we can only investigate Mr K and Ms Ws complaint if the actions of RSA in handling the
complaint are a regulated or otherwise covered activity.
Regulated activities are a specified list of activities that the Financial Conduct Authority
regulate and authorise financial businesses to carry out. I wont repeat the full list here as it
contains a large number of activities. But having considered that list it doesnt include
complaint handling. As the activity isnt one the regulator authorises and it isnt an otherwise
covered activity under the rules, this isnt something our service can consider.
Issues raised regarding comment from RSAs Field Adjuster
Ms W is unhappy with comments made by RSA regarding a visit from a Field Adjuster in
2019. She has said she feels the comments were discriminatory in nature and unfairly
influenced RSAs subsequent handling of her claim.
I understand why Ms W feels strongly about this, but our rules say RSA must have the
opportunity to respond to this complaint first. So, Ms W will need to raise this with RSA first,
and she can then bring a new complaint to our service if she is not satisfied with its response
I will now turn my consideration to the matters which can be addressed.
Events following RSAs final response in May 2019, up to its most recent final response in
September 2020.
I understand Ms W feels strongly about whats happened and she has provided detailed
submissions in bringing her complaint. I want to assure her I have read and considered
everything shes said carefully.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the court. So, in
deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather
than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms W.
Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr K and Ms Ws complaint in part. Ill explain why:
The policy sets out that RSA can settle the claim at the amount it would cost for it to
replace an item.
RSA increased its offers on several items following its final response, but some items
appear to be outstanding.
From internal contact notes I can see there were times when RSA have tried to
contact Ms W unsuccessfully. However, I dont think this meant Ms W was not
engaged in the claim. Shed previously explained to RSA why there might be times
where there could be gaps in communication, and I think she has tried to provide as
much information as she can to validate the claim.
Given the personal nature of the jewellery, its reasonable Ms W feels passionately
about making sure the items are correctly represented when replaced.
Although claims of this nature do involve a degree of inconvenience, I do think RSA
could have provided clearer information to Ms W about all of her potential options in
settling the claim, but I cant see that it did.
Ms W has asked for this information on more than one occasion and I can
understand her frustration. If RSA had done so, its possible the claim could have
progressed, including the settlements being agreed on many of the items. Which I
can see it has since this complaint was brought to our service.
For this reason, I think RSA should pay Mr K and Ms W £175 compensation as I
think this fairly represents the inconvenience this has caused.
I can see since RSAs final response of September 2019, settlements for further
items have been agreed, however some remain outstanding. To bring matters to a
conclusion Im intending to direct RSA to create drawings for any remaining
outstanding items. If RSA can replace these items like for like or make them from
new, then it can proceed to do so.
If it cannot, then it must offer a full cash settlement at what it would have cost Mr K
and Ms W to replace the items at the time the claim was accepted.
RSA are entitled to rely on the opinion of experts to settle the claim. However, if Mr K
and Ms W do disagree with RSAs drawings or their valuations, its reasonable they
be allowed to provide their own evidence for RSA to consider.
RSA said in its final response it hasnt provided some of the requested information
previously due to ongoing investigations. Ive set out why I dont intend to comment
on certain aspects relating to the field and further investigations above, however
when considering this point alone I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in not
providing this information.
So for these reasons, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA didnt provide any further response to my provisional findings. 
Ms W provided further comment following my provisional findings. Ive considered these in 
full but in summary Ms W has made the following points:
Ms W doesnt agree the compensation I recommended in my provisional findings is 
sufficient. She has provided details of her daily salary to support what she feels is a 
more reasonable figure.
Ms W said there is still a large disparity between the valuation provided by RSA and 
the cost its contractors quoted to remake the jewellery. Ms W feels any cash settlement should be made at todays prices, and not at the 
time the claim was accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Ms W said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. 
The role of this service isnt to make punitive awards and unlike a court, our awards of 
compensation are relatively modest in comparison. I understand Ms W feels strongly about 
what has happened and I appreciate her comments on why she considers I should award a 
significant amount of compensation. 
However, it wouldn't be reasonable to award compensation based on Ms Ws hourly or daily 
rate, as she wasnt acting in her professional capacity when dealing with RSA. Having 
reviewed everything available to me again, Im satisfied the award I made in my provisional 
decision is fair and reasonable for the reasoning I set out.
In order to reach my decision, I have to rely on the information available to me to decide if I 
think RSA have acted fairly regarding its valuations, with particular consideration given to the 
opinions of experts.  
As I set out in my provisional findings, RSA are entitled to rely on the opinion of experts to 
settle the claim  as it has done in this case. Its also not unusual for cash settlements to be 
offered at the rate it would cost the insurer to replace the item  and the policy does say it 
can do this. RSA also said some of the drawings previously created are not a fair reflection 
of the items, and this has been confirmed in its experts comments. 
I know Ms W disputes this and some of the valuations. But Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me the valuations are obviously wrong. As Ive set out in my provisional decision, if 
Ms W wishes to do so, she can provide her own evidence to support her assertion regarding 
the valuation, and its reasonable for RSA to allow her the opportunity to do so. 
The claim was accepted by RSA around August 2019. I set out that I think RSA couldve 
done more to make the options available to Ms W clearer. However, I dont think this 
ultimately would have meant the claim would be settled any sooner because it wouldnt have 
changed the dispute regarding the settlement amounts. And as mentioned Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me the valuations provided by RSA are obviously wrong. So, I think 
its fair the settlement amount be calculated from the date the claim was accepted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr K and Ms Ws complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to act as Ive set out in my 
provisional findings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman