DRN-4273659
The complaint
Mr W has said that he shouldnt have been charged interest on his second charge loan he 
held. 
The loan was originally taken out with lender G and it was transferred to lender A in July 
2016. The loan was administered by Target Servicing Limited on behalf of lender A so it is 
the business responsible for dealing with this complaint.
What happened
Mr W took this loan out with lender G on 25 April 2006. He borrowed £25,000 (plus fees) 
over 20 years with the initial interest rate being 8.14% variable. 
The loan fell into arrears in 2007 and remained that way for most of the term of the loan. The 
loan was repaid in November 2022 when the property was sold.
Mr W raised a complaint. He said hed seen on lender As website a statement that if the 
account had been defaulted before lender A took it over, then lender A wouldnt charge 
interest or fees on the account from the point it acquired it.
A complaint response was issued by lender E (who was taking over the account just as 
Mr W was redeeming it). Lender E apologised for an earlier email not having been 
responded to and offered £20 compensation for that oversight. In regard to the main issue, it 
said it had been unable to evidence that the account had been defaulted, and so the interest 
was charged as normal in line with the credit agreement Mr W had signed.
In the meantime Mr W had referred the complaint to our service. The complaint was set up 
against Target as it was about the actions of lender A at the time Target administered the 
loan.
Our Investigator said the account hadnt been defaulted, and the interest was correctly 
charged. 
Mr W didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding this complaint. Id like to assure him that 
Ive read and considered everything hes told us. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that 
Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and we look at things independently 
without taking sides. For that reason, I wont be answering Mr Ws questions, such as why 
lender G used the word default as that point doesnt impact the overall outcome of this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ws confusion here as lender G referred to various fees it charged as 
default fee. I cant comment on the wording lender G used as this complaint isnt about 
lender G and its actions. It is about lender A and whether it was right to charge interest on 
the loan. 
Even though lender G described a fee on the transaction history as being a default fee 
doesnt mean the account was defaulted. An account being defaulted is a set action, it isnt 
something that can be implied due to the wording of a fee. Either an account has been 
defaulted or it hasnt.
So what I need to decide for this complaint is:
1. Was the account defaulted?
2. If it was defaulted, should lender A have charged interest when it took over the loan.
I only need to answer point 2 if I think the answer to point 1 is yes.
Theres no record of this account having been defaulted. In fact, Mr W sent us a copy of his 
credit file record for this loan and it says:
Default Date N/A 
Had the loan been defaulted at any time then there would be a date there rather than N/A.
The fact the matter went to court and the lender obtained a suspended possession order 
doesnt mean the account was defaulted. If the account had been defaulted it would show as 
such on Mr Ws credit file with a date where Ive indicated above. 
I cant comment on whether or not it should have been defaulted at some point as that is a 
different matter Mr W would have to raise with the business(es) concerned if he wanted to 
do so. 
That said, even if a later complaint found the account should have been defaulted before it 
was taken over by lender A that wouldnt impact things here. Thats because the wording 
Mr W has referred to says If your account has been defaulted before A later complaint 
saying the account should have been defaulted isnt the same thing as an account that had 
actually been defaulted. Lender A charged interest on the basis the account hadnt been 
defaulted and it wasnt wrong to do so.
As I said, I can understand Mr Ws confusion due to the wording of the transaction history 
but, as Ive explained, the name of the fee isnt evidence  in itself  that the account was 
defaulted. Mr Ws credit file provides strong evidence there wasnt a default, as does all the 
information held by Target also showing that wasnt the case.
On balance I dont think this account has ever been formally marked as in default, therefore, 
the wording Mr W has supplied isnt applicable. 
Mr W borrowed this money and was due to pay it back with interest. As Ive not found the 
account had been defaulted, and having considered everything very carefully, Im not persuaded that lender A was wrong to charge interest on this debt and so I dont uphold the 
complaint.
I leave it to Mr W to decide if, on reflection, he wishes to contact lender E directly to accept 
its offer of £20 for the lack of response to his email (if he hasnt already done so) as that part 
of the complaint wasnt progressed with our service.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman