DRN-3236174
The complaint
M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank failed to 
refund several transactions that they didnt recognise.
What happened
M represented by Mr K in this complaint logged into his account and noticed that the majority 
of the funds had been spent. Mr K contacted Cashplus about this and they cancelled his 
card and investigated the circumstances. Mr K said he only used his card on the odd 
occasion, and it was normally kept in his shop. His staff noticed it missing the same day all 
the disputed transactions took place.
Mr K explained that no one else knew his Personal Identification Number (PIN) for the debit 
card and he hadnt written it down. Cashplus informed Mr K that all the disputed transactions 
were made using the genuine card and PIN and that the disputed transactions stopped once 
the card was cancelled. They thought Mr K was responsible as they couldnt identify how 
someone could find out the PIN if it wasnt known to anyone else. They also thought the lack 
of card activity after it had been cancelled was indicative of knowledge an unknown third 
party couldnt have  basically that they wouldnt be aware that the card had been cancelled 
and would continue to try and use it.
Cashplus declined to make any refund to Ms account and Mr K brought a complaint on their 
behalf. Cashplus investigated the claim but didnt change their position. M then brought their 
complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who thought it was reasonable for Cashplus to hold M liable for the 
transactions because there was no evidence of how the PIN could have been obtained by an 
unknown third party. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms complaint and Mr K, on behalf of M, 
asked for a further review of it.
Mr K commented to our investigator that the police had taken action against the person who 
used their card but couldnt provide any evidence of this.
Both parties were given an opportunity to provide further evidence for me to consider if they 
wished. Neither party sent anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Cashplus can hold M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Cashplus have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make 
the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Cashplus and M agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together, Cashplus agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the genuine card and the 
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Cashplus to hold 
M responsible, for example if the card was used without their permission.
Theres a significant difference between the two partys version of events here, Cashplus 
believe M were responsible for making the transactions and Mr K , on behalf of M denies 
this. So, to assess the most likely version of what happened, Ive looked at the evidence 
provided by both parties.
Cashpluss technical evidence shows that all the disputed transactions were made using the 
genuine card and the correct PIN. What that means in practice is that the card provided by 
Cashplus for M to use with their account was the one presented to the various retailers. And 
together with the correct PIN, the transactions were authorised.
Mr K said he kept his card at his shop, so it was possible for someone without Mr K or Ms 
permission to obtain the card. His staff confirmed it went missing the same day as the 
disputed transactions were made. Whats not apparent is how anyone other than Mr K could 
know what the PIN was. Mr K confirmed he hadnt written it down or disclosed it to anyone 
else. There are a significant number of possible PIN combinations for these types of cards 
and its unlikely it was correctly guessed by whoever used it. I also dont think anyone was 
able to obtain the PIN by surfing Mr K when he last used it because it wasnt used for some 
time. Surfing means to look over the card holders shoulder to obtain the PIN. So, I dont 
think its plausible that an unauthorised third party was able to obtain both the card and the 
PIN.
Cashplus also advised that no further attempts to use the card were made once it was 
reported to them. This can be an indication that whoever was using the card knew it had 
been cancelled  in which case its unlikely to be someone who was unconnected to M or Mr 
K. I noted that there were funds remaining on the account before the last disputed 
transaction was made. It was only a few hundred pounds, but if the card was used by an 
unknown third party, theyd most likely try to get as much from the card as possible before it 
was cancelled or the account was emptied, which didnt happen here.
Taking everything into account, and whilst Im sure Mr K on behalf of M will disagree with 
me, I think Its more likely than not that M was responsible for making these transactions or 
allowed someone else to do it on their behalf. It follows that it was reasonable for Cashplus 
to hold them liable for the disputed transactions and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman