DRN-3445845
The complaint
Mr H complained about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) handled his 
home insurance claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr H had a home insurance contents policy with AA that began in November 2018. Mr H 
contacted AA on 7 December 2019 to let it know his home had been burgled several weeks 
earlier. He said a number of electrical items, clothing and several pieces of his mothers 
jewellery were taken.
AA appointed a claims handler and a third-party jewellery specialist was instructed to contact 
Mr H. Shortly after making the claim, Mr H told AA that he had, unfortunately, suffered a 
bereavement and would contact AA when he wanted to proceed with the claim. In July 2020 
Mr H contacted AA and said he wanted to add more items to the claim. In around December 
2020 concerns were raised about possible under insurance and specialist field investigators 
were instructed by AA. 
Mr H complained to this service in September 2021. A complaint was then raised with AA.  
AA responded in October 2021. It said it was satisfied Mr Hs claim was well managed and 
there were no concerns with the customer service provided. It said it asked specialist field 
investigators to complete an assessment of the value of the contents at Mr Hs property, 
including the items that were stolen. Mr H was then asked to sign an Appendix D form which 
would give AA consent to ask the police to disclose details of the burglary. But AA said Mr H 
declined to sign the form and it said several attempts were made to contact Mr H to advise 
that the form needs to be signed in order for the claims validation process to continue. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He outlined in some detail what he referred 
to as the significant efforts AA made to try and contact Mr H and said it didnt cause delays. 
He said it was fair for AA to obtain all the information needed to satisfy its requirements 
before progressing the claim. 
Mr H didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that this decision will only address what has happened with how Mr Hs 
claim has been handled from the time it was made, to the time AA issued its final response 
letter in October 2021. The claim has not yet been agreed, so this decision is looking only at 
delays and information requests. 
It might help Mr H to understand that when he made the claim to AA, it was his responsibility 
to provide enough evidence for AA to be able to assess whether he had a valid claim. AA 
quickly decided more information was needed and, from what Ive seen, this was information 
relevant to the claim, such as proof of ownership of the stolen items and, more recently, the 
Appendix D form. So it was reasonable for AA to request the information it has, and to wait 
until this was received  and as far as Im aware it hasnt all been received yet  before it 
completes its assessment of Mr Hs claim. 
Ive also looked at whether AA has done enough to progress Mr Hs claim in a timely way, so 
without any unnecessary delays. Our investigator produced a timeline of the attempts made 
by AA to try and contact Mr H, so I dont intend to repeat all of that information here. I hope 
the timeline helps Mr H to understand the steps taken by AA to get in contact with him during 
the claims process. 
Having looked at all of the evidence provided, I think that AA has made repeated attempts by 
phone and email to try and contact Mr H about his claim. It appointed specialists as and 
when needed, and I can see that one of these specialists arranged to visit Mr H at his home, 
but said they were refused entry when they got there. Taking everything into consideration, 
Im satisfied AA hasnt caused any unnecessary delays during the claims process. 
I understand that Mr H has said a medical condition means he has a tendency to avoid 
issues. So I appreciate it must make it difficult for him to deal with this claim. At this stage all 
I can do is encourage Mr H to engage with AA and provide the information requested, so 
that AA can progress his claim. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman