DRN-2983159
The complaint
Miss M complains 2gether Insurance Limited have applied a fee unfairly for cancelling a call 
out on her roadside assistance policy.
Miss M has been represented in this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer to her in this 
decision.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 18 August 2021. Ive included below what 
happened, and what I provisionally thought about that. This provisional decision forms part 
of my final decision.
Miss M took out a roadside assistance policy due to run from 26 September 2020 until 
25 September 2021. The cost of the policy was £29.75.
On 16 January 2021 Miss M couldnt start her car due to a flat battery  so she called 
2gether. Around ten minutes after contacting them, and before she says she received a text 
from them confirming recovery, a passer-by was able to jump start her car. She called 
2gether back and cancelled the callout. Miss M says the text confirming the call out arrived 
during this call. 
Miss M said 2gether told her theyd charge her a £125 fee for cancelling the call out and 
have since cancelled her cover with them after she said she wouldnt pay this fee. Because 
of this she took out new cover with another provider for £59.99. 
She complained to 2gether about these issues, and said it was unreasonable of 2gether to 
impose a fee given the service would have been free. She felt its unreasonable to the extent 
its a punitive charge, and as such is an Unfair Contract Term under the Unfair Contract 
Terms Act 1977 (UCTA). 
2gether said theyd told her on the phone if she cancelled the call out then a charge of £125 
would have to be paid by her. They said this is because once theyve instructed an agent to 
attend then they get charged for this  whether the agent attends in full or is cancelled on the 
way. 2gether said the cost is passed on and this is why their operatives inform members in 
each and every instance. They said the fact that they sent the estimated time of arrival text 
after the agent was dispatched doesnt remove the agreement made in the initial call. 
2gether subsequently referred the outstanding amount they said was due to a debt collection 
agency.
Miss M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so. She found that although 
Miss M had been made aware there was a cancellation charge, the policy stated this would 
be £98.40  not the £125 2gether had charged her. And although they explained this was 
because they used other agencies, she didnt think this was fair. But, overall she felt 2gether 
charging a fee was fair, and that the policy terms allowed them to cancel Miss Ms policy as 
shed not paid something that was properly owed. 
Miss M didnt agree with this and wanted her argument about the UCTA to be considered. 
Because our investigator didnt think 2gether had to do anymore, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Im required to take into account the law, relevant industry 
guidance and good practice. But my overarching remit is to consider things on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
I note Miss M has referred to the UCTA. Its my understanding this doesnt relate to 
consumer contracts, as Miss M had with 2gether. Instead I think more relevant legislation 
might be the Unfair Terms and the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Having considered this 
specific case though, Ive not felt the need to reference this specific law  when Im thinking 
about what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The key reason for that is 
Miss M has referred to this as reasons for why her case should be upheld, but Im satisfied 
applying my fair and reasonable remit means this case should be upheld anyway.
The policy terms do say a charge might be applied if the call out is cancelled  and I 
understand 2gethers explanation for this. Once theyve called someone out then theyre 
charged for it regardless of whether the person attends to Miss M or not.
Im not going to decide whether charging a fee for cancelling a call out is fair  as thats 
telling 2gether how to run their business which isnt in my remit. But it does appear to have 
the net effect, if people are properly informed about the charge, of essentially just saying 
theyll wait with their car to avoid the charge.
But in Miss Ms case I cant agree she was told about the charge. Ive listened to a recording 
of the initial phone call she had with 2gether. They said there would be a charge for 
cancelling the call out  but didnt explicitly say what the charge what would be. This is 
contrary to 2gethers response to Miss Ms complaint where they emphasise how important it 
is for them to have told all their customers what the charge would be  including the amount 
of the charge.
Given the level of the charge, I do think this is key information to have told Miss M on the 
phone call  and by not doing so I think theyve put her at a disadvantage when considering 
her options.
In thinking about what actions Miss M may have taken, I think its possible had she been told 
about such a significant charge, then shed potentially have stayed with her car. This would 
have meant the call out was free, and she wouldnt have been charged.
Im also concerned that 2gether quotes one charge of £98.40 in their policy documents but 
have applied a completely different charge of £125 without any clear explanation to Miss M 
later on. Their explanation when asked is because theyve had to use agencies. But I dont 
think it can be considered fair for 2gether to say theyll charge one fee, but then charge a 
different fee without explaining why to Miss M, or obtaining her agreement to this variation  
particularly when its higher.
With that in mind, I dont think 2gether have treated Miss M fairly. Because of that, I think 
they should recall the debt from the debt collector and cancel all charges that have been 
applied so shes not left with anything to pay.I note Miss M has since taken out another roadside assistance policy  and wants to be paid 
for the cost of that. I dont think thats necessarily the right way to put things right. Instead, I 
think its more appropriate for 2gether to refund a proportion of the cost of the policy Miss M 
originally paid that she lost out on by it being cancelled. I say this because, having found 
theyve charged her incorrectly, then it follows theyve cancelled her policy incorrectly as 
well. So, Miss M should get back the time on cover 2gether have taken from her.
Finally, I think some compensation for the issues Ive outlined above would be fair. Because 
Ive concluded Miss M hasnt been treated fairly, this means shes been caused additional 
stress and anxiety as a result of 2gethers actions  not least the contact from debt 
collectors. With everything Ive mentioned above, I think £100 is fair for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties replied almost immediately.
Miss M said she accepted my decision.
2gether didnt though. They said regardless of whether Miss M was told about the specific 
amount of the charge, she was told there would be a charge. And the policy wording clearly 
states the amount in question. They said if Miss M was concerned about the charge, then 
wouldnt it have been logical for her to ask where this was mentioned. 
2gether said to put the matter to rest theyd agree to cease chasing Miss M for the money. 
But didnt accept any compensation should be paid. They said Miss M bought the policy of 
her own advice and free will but in hindsight didnt agree with what shed taken out. So, 
they felt the £100 was an arbitrary figure with no basis for even being awarded  let alone for 
the amount of £100.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to thank both parties for replying promptly.
2gether have said that, in effect, it doesnt matter how much the charge is  as long as 
Miss Ms told one would be due. And theyve said the amount of the charge is clearly set out 
in the policy terms. But I dont agree with either of these arguments.
2gether made a point of saying, in their response to Miss Ms original complaint, that its 
really important to them they tell someone how much the charge would be, and theyd 
always do so. But they failed to do that as Ive set out in my provisional decision. I accept 
that Miss M could have questioned the charge. But Ive not seen anything to suggest at the 
point she called for help, she ever expected to have to cancel the call out  so I cant see 
shed have had any reason to question the charge as she wasnt expecting to pay it. And I 
dont think it can be fair to say youre going to apply a charge, but then not tell the person 
what that charge will be. Failing to do that, as 2gether did in Miss Ms case, means the 
person cant know the consequences of cancelling the call out in full. When I listened to the 
call, it wasnt clear to me how much the charge was likely to be  so Miss M wasnt treated 
fairly because 2gether didnt give her enough information to make an informed choice about 
cancelling the call out.
In addition, theyve said the amount is clearly set out in the policy terms  but as Ive set out in my provisional decision, its not. The amount they charged Miss M was £125, the policy 
terms say £98.40. I dont think quoting one figure and charging another is ever likely to mean 
the amount of the charge is clearly set out when a higher amount is charged without 
explanation.
So, for those two reasons I still maintain the charges should be removed. I realise 2gether 
have said they accepted this, but I felt it important to clarify my thoughts on these two points. 
The issue 2gether dont agree with is the compensation Ive awarded, theyve said, in effect, 
I shouldnt be awarding any.
We can award compensation where someone has been put to unnecessary distress that, 
had the financial business involved handled things correctly, wouldnt have happened. In this 
case, Im satisfied Miss M wasnt treated fairly when she was charged. That resulted in 
2gether cancelling her policy which then meant she had to go and buy a new one. It also 
meant she was contacted by debt collectors asking for the payment to be made. 
Miss M has said this caused her distress, and Im satisfied being contacted by a debt 
collector for a debt that shouldnt have arisen in the first place is worthy of compensation. 
Overall, I felt £100 was fair  and I remain of that opinion. 
2gether havent mentioned what Ive said about providing a pro rata refund of the policy. But, 
for completeness, Im satisfied this still needs to happen as well for the reasons explained in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require 2gether to:
Recall the debt from the debt collector
Cancel the charge including any fees the debt collector may have added  so Miss M 
is left without anything to pay
Calculate the number of days Miss Ms cover was cancelled for  and pay her a pro-
rata refund of the policy cost for that length of time
Pay Miss M £100 compensation
Once 2gether have taken the appropriate actions they should write out to Miss M to confirm 
this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require 2gether Insurance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman