DRN-3659259
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way Studio Retail Limited has treated her when she has been 
struggling financially and unable to make the contractual repayments to her catalogue 
shopping account.
What happened
In May 2022 Miss C contacted Studio Retail to ask for a payment suspension as she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. Studio Retail responded to say it didnt offer payment 
suspensions. It asked for details of Miss Cs income and expenditure so it could see what a 
suitable payment plan might be. Miss C provided these details but said she couldnt afford to 
make any payments to the account. She insisted a debt charity had told her Studio Retail 
could offer a payment break of between six and 12 months.
Studio Retail reiterated it couldnt offer a payment suspension, but said it could accept token 
payments of as little as £1 a month until Miss Cs situation improved. It said it needed 
Miss Cs income and expenditure information to agree to this. Miss C replied that she had 
already provided her income and expenditure information and said shed pay Studio Retail 
£2 a month, even though she cant afford to do so. Studio Retail has agreed to this 
arrangement.
Miss C isnt happy that Studio Retail wouldnt offer her the payment suspension. She says 
Studio Retail has done nothing to help her and it doesnt care that she has no money. This 
has added to the stress and worry she already has. She wants Studio Retail to stop chasing 
her for payment.
Our investigator thought Studio Retail had treated Miss C fairly and she didnt think it needed 
to do anything further. Because Miss C didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss C told Studio Retail she was in financial difficulties, I would have expected it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Examples 
of treating a customer with forbearance include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments 
to be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income
Looking at the statements Studio Retail has produced, I can see it hasnt added any interest 
or charges to Miss Cs account since she made it aware of her financial difficulties in May 
2022. This appears to be a relatively open-ended arrangement which, in my experience, is 
somewhat unusual. It has also agreed to accept token payments of £2 a month. And while 
Miss C had told Studio Retail she had already been to a debt charity, Studio Retail reminded 
her this support was available. So I cant agree with Miss C that Studio Retail has done 
nothing to help her. Im satisfied it has treated her with forbearance.
I appreciate the options Studio Retail has offered Miss C arent what she was hoping for and 
what shed been led to believe by the debt charity she could expect. However, Studio Retail 
is adamant it isnt able to offer payment suspensions of the type Miss C wants. And I 
wouldnt necessarily expect it to offer this sort of arrangement.
The examples of forbearance set out in the rules are all designed as short-term measures to 
allow a customer who has had a financial set back, to recover and get back to a position 
where they can repay the debt. I understand why Miss C wants some breathing space and 
doesnt want to be worrying about paying her debt with Studio Retail. I also accept any 
ongoing contact from Studio Retail is likely to cause her upset. But it would be unusual for a 
lender to agree a longer-term period (eg 12 months) where it wont expect any payment or 
take any further action  such as defaulting the account  particularly when theres nothing 
to suggest the customers financial situation will be any different at the end of that period, as 
is the case here. 
In situations like Miss Cs, where she cant afford to make any payments towards the debt, 
and this is likely to continue for some time, the options available to lenders like Studio Retail 
are limited. What I think Miss C wants  a 12-month period where she doesnt need to make 
any payments, and Studio Retail takes no further action, including contacting her  isnt 
reasonable. At some point (usually between three and six months) when a borrower has 
fallen behind with their contractual repayments and hasnt been able to come to a temporary, 
sustainable repayment plan (during which theyre paying more than a token amount each 
month), a lender would usually (and fairly) default the account.  And I would usually expect 
the lender to accurately report the account position to the credit reference agencies
Miss C is already three months behind with her contractual repayments (also known as 
being in arrears) and, as I say, it doesnt seem that her financial situation is likely to improve 
any time soon. So even though Studio Retail has agreed to accept a token monthly 
repayment it seems likely there will be a point in the future at which it will decide to default 
her account. If Miss C really cant afford to pay the token payments, I would recommend she 
speaks to the debt charity again to help her decide if the benefits of making these payments, 
outweigh the disadvantages.
While Im sympathetic to Miss Cs situation, which I understand has come about through no 
fault of her own, Im unable to say Studio Retail has done anything wrong or that it needs to 
do anything further. I realise Miss C has found herself in a particularly difficult position and 
its affecting her mental health. But Im afraid all I can suggest is she goes back to the debt 
charity for further advice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman