DRN-1994511
The complaint
 Mr R complains about a credit card account he held with Vanquis Bank Limited.
What happened
 In 2011, Mr R took out an account with Vanquis and was given a credit limit of £150. He 
tells us that he struggled to manage the account quite soon after this. He says he often 
missed payments  sometimes he was between three to four months behind. 
In 2014, Mr R came into difficulties making the monthly minimum payment again. Mr R didnt 
make a payment from October 2014 and Vanquis started to contact him regarding the 
missed payments. In January 2015, Vanquis sent Mr R a notice of default. This stated that if 
Mr R didnt bring his account up to date by 4 February 2015, then it would apply a default to 
his account. Because Mr R didnt bring the account back up to date, the account defaulted in 
April 2015, and Vanquis registered this with the credit reference agencies. 
Mr R complains that Vanquis should have registered the default against him sooner.
Our investigator looked into things. He agreed that the default should have been applied 
sooner and should have been registered in February 2015. 
Mr R responded to our investigator to say that here were other times when he missed a 
number of payments, and so the default ought to have been applied much sooner  he 
thinks around 2011. 
Vanquis also responded to say that it didnt agree. It said that it had followed its normal 
process, and because it only reports to the credit reference agency once a month, the 
default was registered in April 2015  which was when Mr R had missed seven payments to 
the account. Which is doesnt feel is a significant deviation from the ICOs guidelines.
Because neither party has agreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision on the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. And Ill explain my 
reason for doing so in more detail below. 
Firstly, its worth noting what the ICO (Information Commissioners Office) says about when 
a default should generally be registered. It says that a default shouldnt be registered unless 
a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments. And it would usually expect 
a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their 
payments. 
Looking at what has happened in this case, I can see that the last payment Mr R made to 
the account was in September 2014. After this, he didnt make a payment. Vanquis says it 
sent Mr R a Notice of Arrears letter in November 2014 to ask that Mr R brings the account 
up to date. Mr R didnt bring the account up to date, and so Vanquis sent him a Notice of 
Default. This letter asked Mr R to bring the account up to date by 4 February 2015, and if he 
didnt do this it may apply a default to his account. 
Looking at the statements that have been sent to me. I can see that Mr R didnt make a 
payment by 4 February 2015, and so I agree with Vanquiss decision to apply a default. 
However, Vanquis didnt register the default with the credit reference agencies until April 
2015  this is after Mr R would have missed seven payments. The ICO says that a default 
should normally be registered by the time a consumer has missed six payments, so I agree 
that I think the default was registered later than it should have been here.
Mr R believes that the default should have been registered even sooner than this. He says 
that he missed payments from between October 2011 and February 2012, and so it should 
have been clear at this stage that he was struggling financially, and the default should have 
been applied then. Ive looked through the statements. And while I agree that Mr R has 
clearly missed several payments, I cant agree that a default should have been applied 
sooner. 
Ive looked at the statements provided by Vanquis, I can see that Mr R did make some 
manual debit card payments during these dates and so he doesnt appear to be so far 
behind on his payments where Vanquis ought to have defaulted the account, particularly 
considering the ICOs guidance in relation to this. 
While Mr R did go on to miss more payments while he had this credit card account, I cant 
agree he missed enough for a default to be registered. The marking of a default on a 
consumers credit file is likely to impact on their ability to obtain credit, or the terms or cost of 
their borrowing  so it could have serious consequences for Mr R. Because of this Vanquis 
would need to be sure that Mr R wouldnt be able to repay the account under the current 
terms. And because he did, on each occasion, bring the account back up to date, I dont 
think it did anything wrong by not applying a default prior to 2015.
So, given what Ive said, I do think Vanquis needs to do something to put things right for Mr 
R. Based on the ICOs guidelines, I think Vanquis should have registered the default against 
Mr R by March 2015 at the latest  as this would have been when he was six months behind 
on his repayments. 
However, I think the default ought to be registered in February 2015. I say this because, 
when Mr R didnt make a payment by the date specified in the default notice, I think it should 
have been clear to Vanquis at this point that Mr R wasnt going to bring the account back up 
to date. And so, I think February 2015 would be a fair date for the default to be registered.
Ive taken on board Vanquis comments in relation to what theyve said about only reporting 
to the credit reference agencies on a monthly basis. I dont doubt this, but even when taking 
this into account, I still think the default could have been registered in February 2015.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, Vanquis should update the date of the default to February 2015 
and inform credit reference agencies of this.
My final decision For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman