DRN-4258659
The complaint
Mr B complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) provided him with 
loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr B received two loans from Valour;
1. £400 loan on 29 June 2021 payable in 6 monthly instalments. 5 instalments of 
£121.26 each followed by a final payment of £120.80. This loan is settled.
2. £800 loan on 13 January 2022 repayable over 12 instalments of £133.33 each. 
Valours most recent email says an outstanding balance remains due. 
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Valour said it hadnt made an error when it approved the 
loans because proportionate checks had been carried out, which showed Mr B would be 
able to afford his loans. Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator and he concluded Valour made a 
reasonable decision to provide the loans because it had carried out a proportionate checks 
which showed the loan repayments to be affordable. He also didnt think Valour needed to 
have verified the information Mr B had provided. 
Mr B disagreed with the outcome saying that at the time, due to his gambling addiction his 
salary wasnt being paid into his bank account, and so he didnt have the funds to make the 
repayments. Valour didnt check his bank statements, which Mr B says it ought to have 
done. Mr B described the impact these loans had on his worsening gambling addiction as 
well as his mental health issues. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. As there were only 2 loans, I 
agree with the investigator that this wouldnt apply in this complaint. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs circumstances and what he was going through at the time the 
loans were advanced to him. But it does seem from what he told us in the complaint form 
that things have improved for him, which I am glad to hear. 
Before these loans was approved, Valour carried out the same sort of checks, it took details 
of Mr Bs income and expenditure as well as carrying out a credit search. Having reviewed 
the information it gathered, and the amounts lent to Mr B, I am satisfied Valour carried out 
proportionate checks which showed it that Mr B could afford his repayments and Ive 
outlined my reasons for saying this below. 
Valour received details from Mr B about his income, which he declared to be £2,100 per 
month for loan 1 and £2.415 per month for loan 2. Valour says it asked for copy payslips for 
both loans  a copy of these havent been provided. But Valour has explained in the final 
response letter that it used the lower amounts of either what was on the payslip or what Mr B 
declared  I think that was proportionate and the fairest way of considering Mr Bs income. 
However, Mr B has also showed, through his bank statements, that while that may have 
been his income at the time, it wasnt being paid into his account. He says this was as a way 
of helping him managing his money. 
I can see from the bank statements he has provided that no salary was received into the 
account, but Valour didnt know this at the time. For the first loans, and with verifying Mr Bs 
income, I think Valour did enough and I wouldnt have expected it to have known, or 
reasonably assumed that the salary Mr B evidenced he received wasnt being paid directly 
into his account. 
As part of his applications Mr B provided Valour with details of his living costs, these were 
then discussed with Mr B on telephone calls before each loan was advanced. Copies of the recorded calls have been provided which I have listened to. Mr B confirmed details of his 
application such as his employer and payment date, his living situation and details of his 
income and expenditure. As a result of these checks, Valour believed Mr Bs has sufficient 
disposable income to afford his repayments for both loans.  
Before these loans were approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and 
then not react to the to the information it received. Valour was also entitled to rely on the 
results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway 
inaccurate. 
The credit check results gave an overview of all the active credit accounts that Mr B had. 
From the information it received, Valour knew for loan 1 that Mr B had a current account and 
a credit card which didnt have an active balance. 
By loan 2, Mr B had the same accounts as the loan 1 credit check but in addition, Valour 
was told he had a loan costing £62 per month, a mail order account where he was using 
around £220 of the £600 limit and finally another credit card with a balance of £368 against a 
limit of £500. However, for these active accounts there wasnt any adverse information such 
as missed payment markers and these accounts including a current account appeared to 
have been managed well. 
Valour did know that in 2016 Mr B must have had some difficulties because he defaulted on 
three accounts, but this was too long before either loan was granted to have given Valour 
cause for concern. Also given its age I dont think that it was a reflection of how Mr B had 
managed his accounts in recent years. 
There was also a County Court Judgement but that had been satisfied in 2019  again in my 
view it was too long before these loans to have concerned Valour. Although on a phone call 
Mr B provided a reasonable explanation as to how and why the judgement came about and 
was applied. It was reasonable in the circumstances for Valour to have accepted this 
explanation. 
So, taking everything into account, there wasnt, in my view, anything solely from the credit 
file which wouldve led to Valour declining Mr Bs application or to have prompted it to carry 
out further checks. There was also nothing else in the information Valour either received or 
was told that Ive seen that wouldve led it to believe that it needed to go further with its 
checks  such as verifying the information Mr B had provided. 
Given it was early in the lending relationship, it was reasonable for Valour to have relied on 
the information Mr B provided about his income and expenditure as well as the credit check 
results which showed sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments, he was 
committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr B was currently 
having financial difficulties or that the repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
An outstanding balance does appear to be due, and I would remind Valour of its obligation to 
treat Mr B fairly and with forbearance taking account of all the information it has been told 
about Mr B.  
Im therefore not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the sale of the loans.  My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman