DRN-2942112
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) increased his 
premium when he changed vehicles mid-term and that they stored his card details on their 
system.
What happened
Mr R first took out his motor insurance policy with Advantage in August 2020. Early in March 
2021 Mr R changed vehicles so got in touch with Advantage to update the policy. A new 
premium was agreed and the agent asked Mr R if hed like to pay using the card ending 
xxxx. Mr R agreed to pay but was unhappy his card details had been stored. He asked the 
agent to delete his card and continuous payment authority (CPA) from their system. The 
agent confirmed he would do so. Advantage then followed up with the policy information and 
confirmed the CPA had been cancelled.
On 20 April 2021, Mr R contacted Advantage again to change the vehicle as he had issues 
with the previous one. The agent put the new vehicle details into the system and advised 
there would be an increase in the premium of £35.16 which included a £20 amendment fee. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this as the new vehicle was an older, smaller car. He expected the 
premium to be cheaper. But he went ahead and agreed to the premium.
The agent asked Mr R if he was happy for her to use the card ending xxxx for the payment. 
Mr R said they should not have his card details stored. He said he hadnt given permission 
for this and he had asked them not to keep his card details on the system. He agreed for the 
payment to be taken but asked the agent to log a formal complaint about it. 
Advantage responded to the complaint on 31 May 2021. They explained generally why 
premiums can increase and that they dont store card details on their system. They said they 
follow the FCA regulations which means they only store the last four digits. They also 
explained for customers protection they use a service payment provider who have the latest 
security to ensure customers data is protected. And they confirmed the CPA had been 
switched off.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. The investigator didnt think Advantage had done 
anything wrong. Mr R remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
Whilst I can understand Mr R expected a lower premium as his new vehicle was an older, 
smaller car. Premiums are calculated based on various other factors too to enable insurers 
to fairly consider the risk. We cant tell an insurer what factors to consider when pricing a 
policy, nor can we tell them what weighting to place on those factors. So, it isnt as simple as 
saying a smaller car/ engine means the premium is less.
Advantage has provided a breakdown of the premium change to our service. I cant share 
this with Mr R as it is sensitive information that other insurers could use competitively. But I 
can see they compared only the vehicle differences to fairly assess the change in risk. So, 
Im satisfied Mr Rs premium was calculated in line with Advantages underwriting criteria. 
Meaning Im satisfied any other consumer would be treated the same as Mr R in the same 
circumstances.
When making a mid-term change to the policy such as changing a vehicle, Advantage 
charges an amendment fee of £20. This is clearly explained in the policy terms and 
conditions, so I think this has been applied fairly.
Mr R has also raised concerns about Advantage storing his card details. I can see that Page 
41 of the policy provides a link to the privacy notice which explains what customers need to 
know about the data they hold in order to provide a service. The privacy notice itself goes 
into detail about the personal information they collect and how they use it, such as financial 
information. So, Im satisfied they have been clear this information will be stored.
I can also see the welcome information Advantage sent to Mr R on 5 August 2020 says:
You've agreed to continuous payment authority (CPA)
This means you're giving us the right to take future payments from
your credit or debit card. It's a great way for us to quickly collect any
future payments without taking up your time. But don't worry, we'll
always contact you beforehand to let you know when and why this is
happening. And if you're not happy, you can contact us to cancel the
agreement at any time.
So, Advantage had made Mr R aware they held the card details at the time of inception. 
In March 2021 Mr R asked the agent to remove his card details from the system. The agent 
confirmed this had been done and confirmation that the CPA had been removed was sent to 
Mr R. 
Later, when Mr R made a further change to the policy it came to Mr Rs attention that the 
card details were still being stored. Understandably he was upset by this as he believed the 
details had been removed. And whilst the CPA had been removed meaning Advantage 
couldnt process future payments without consent, this didnt mean the card information had 
been removed as Advantage said it had. 
Having listened to call, the agent confirmed they no longer had the card details on file but its 
clear whatever action he took didnt remove the information, so this was misleading. I 
appreciate Mr Rs frustration here. 
But I think this was unintentional and there was potentially some confusion. Its likely the 
agent thought that by removing the CPA this was resolving the issue. I think the agent 
believed he had done enough to resolve things for Mr R. And it seems to me that removing 
the information completely isnt something the agent would have been able to do. 
Whilst there was an error, Im not recommending any compensation be paid. It isnt unusual 
or unreasonable for Advantage to hold this information. Insurers hold consumers card 
details for regulatory purposes, but they must do so securely. Theres no evidence that 
Advantage didnt do that. Mr Rs security hasnt been breached and there hasnt been any 
loss as a result of this. Advantage also explained how their process works such as only storing the last four digits of the card and using a payment service provider for added 
security to help reassure Mr R.
Mr R feels Advantage have breached his data protection. It isnt my role to decide if 
Advantage has breached data protection, that would be for the Information Commissioners 
Office to decide. But I think Advantage did explain to Mr R when the policy was taken out 
that they would retain his details and explained why it continued to be held, such as for debit 
and credit purposes, when they responded to his concerns.
In summary, Im satisfied Advantage have been fair when amending Mr Rs policy and whilst 
they had given incorrect information about the card details not remaining on the system, they 
were clear about the information they would hold at the outset and explained why they 
retained the information when they responded to his service complaint.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman