DRN-4431611
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank PLC failed to update his address on their system 
following on from an acrimonious divorce, which meant they didnt inform him that the 
mortgage interest rate on their joint mortgage was coming to an end.
What happened
Mr E said he separated from his wife in September 2019 and moved into a different property 
which he said had been registered with Barclays since May 2021. To keep anonymity, I will 
refer to this property as property 2. He said that he realised at this time that Barclays had 
stopped taking mortgage payments from their joint account. 
Mr E said he contacted Barclays and was told that a payment holiday had been granted on 
the mortgage by his estranged wife and he said he explained to Barclays that he didnt want 
this, and he wanted to continue with the mortgage payments  which he said he did. Mr E 
said that Barclays had put a freeze on their accounts because of the dispute between him 
and his wife. Mr E said he transferred all his remaining direct debits and mortgage payments 
from two of the Barclays accounts, to an account he held with another bank  so he could 
continue to service his liabilities. 
Mr E said he gave Barclays the address of where he was staying which appears to be 
property 2. He said that Barclays failed to update one point of contact which meant that the 
letter which was meant to be sent to him regarding the mortgage interest rate changing, had 
in fact been sent to his old address  which I will refer to as property 1. He said this letter 
was dated 2 November 2022 which he had not received at his address.
Mr E said that in December 2022, he realised that Barclays attempted to take the new 
increased direct debit payment which was returned unpaid. 
Mr E said he contacted Barclays and he was told about the increased mortgage payments 
and that the letter had been sent to the wrong address. He said it was at this point that 
Barclays added address 2 to their system. 
Mr E said he told Barclays that he wanted to transfer the mortgage to a lower interest rate. 
He said he wanted a 2-year tracker which at the time was 0.24% above the Bank of England 
Base Rate (base rate) and arrange for the £999 product fee to be added to the mortgage.
Barclays told Mr E that they couldnt do this without his wifes permission and because the 
mortgage was in arrears, the arrears needed to be cleared first. 
Mr E said he disputed the amount that the mortgage was in arrears by and said that he was 
behind because Barclays didnt update his address  so he didnt know the mortgage was 
increasing. It was at this point that he raised a complaint. 
Mr E explained that he was suffering from ill health and still hadnt heard anything from 
Barclays by March 2023. Mr E said he then received a letter from a field agent requesting a 
meeting to be held on 13 April 2023 to discuss the mortgage. Mr E said he thought this was 
in response to the complaint he had raised, but it was in fact to do with the arrears on the 
mortgage as Barclays were unable to make contact with him. Mr E said he hadnt received 
any letters from Barclays other than a telephone call where he told them he was unable to 
speak. 
Mr E said he then went to a local branch where he was handed letters which were sent to 
property 1. He said he was told that his complaint hadnt been logged and the branch staff 
said they would chase this up for him. Mr E said he was contacted by Barclays to agree a 
suitable time to discuss the complaint and was then sent another text message saying the 
complaint was closed.
Mr E said that he has sufficient equity in his property which is now on the market but due to 
the current climate, it hasnt been sold and he is unable to secure a new interest rate or re-
mortgage to another lender because his credit score has been impacted. He would like his 
credit file to be amended. 
Barclays sent their final response on the matter in June 2023. They said that a letter was 
sent on 17 August 2022 informing him that the mortgage product was due to end in October 
2022. And that a further letter was sent on 2 November 2022 confirming the new payments. 
They also said that there havent been any mortgage payments made to the mortgage since 
December 2022. 
Barclays said its the responsibility of both parties to a mortgage to ensure that payments are 
kept up to date and both parties are liable for any arrears on the mortgage. 
Mr E didnt agree with Barclays, so he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary he said that Barclays should have written to Mr E at his new address 
however, a letter was sent to the other party so they would have been aware the mortgage 
product was coming to an end. He said that both parties are liable for the mortgage and at 
least one of the parties were aware - so he couldnt hold Barclays responsible for this.
The investigator also didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask for the consent 
from both Mr E and his wife and didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask that the 
arrears were cleared on the mortgage before entering into a new rate. He said that there 
hadnt been any mortgage payments since November 2022 so he was satisfied that Barclays 
were entitled to report this to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr E disagreed with the investigator. He made the following comments:
If he had known the rate was going to go through the roof, he would have switched 
rate and carried on paying.
He told Barclays that his new address had a mail divert from property 1 to property 2.
He contacted Barclays straight away to resolve the issue and he was asked by 
Barclays if there were any issues in paying the mortgage  and he told them about a 
serious operation after an injury.
This didnt stop him from trying to get Mrs E to agree to a rate switch which took time 
and he tried to resolve the issue with Barclays  only for them to have failed to 
update his details.
Each time he tried, he was told to pay the increased disputed arrears and agree to a 
higher fixed rate as the market was now more volatile. Mr E said he disputed the 
arrears and the interest rates offered due to not being notified about the increase as 
he could have got a more favorable rate.
Barclays were trying to profit from this situation, so he raised a complaint which was 
ignored. He wanted a new interest rate in December 2022, but Barclays refused as 
they couldnt get hold of Mrs E.
If he was given sufficient notice about the rate increase, he could have changed 
rates.
Because of the disputed arrears, he is tied into more than one mortgage that has 
come to the end of its rate with the inability to remortgage, costing him thousands of pounds.
He is forced to sell one of his flats because of this. 
If he cannot get this error resolved and his credit rating restored, he will be forced to 
sell his current home, again paying unnecessary fees. 
Mr E said he has made sure that Mrs E is going to clear all arrears with the sale of property 
1  by including this in their final court order that has forced her to sell the house if she could 
not pay. 
He wants Barclays to acknowledge their error in not updating his details which has caused 
this entire situation, so he can restore his credit rating. 
He accepts that Mrs E may not have taken any notice of the letters sent but he also holds 
Barclays responsible for not letting him know about the rate change at his address. 
The investigator responded to Mr Es points, but he still didnt accept what he had said and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr E has said, and I know he feels very strongly 
about his complaint. He has provided detailed comments in support of his views which I can 
confirm Ive read, understood, and considered in reaching my decision. However, I trust that 
Mr E will not take it as a discourtesy that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues and are expressed in considerably less detail. I am required to determine what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case and as such, I have concentrated 
on the key points in order to determine a fair and reasonable outcome. 
The crux of the issue here, is that Mr E has a joint mortgage with his wife and who I 
understand are living at separate addresses. The interest rate on their mortgage was due to 
come to an end and the notification of this was only sent to Mrs E at her home address, and 
not to Mr E at the address that he moved to. 
The mortgage account has now fallen into arrears and Mr E, although disputing the amount 
of arrears, holds Barclays responsible for this and is unhappy that this has prevented him 
from obtaining a new rate, or moving elsewhere because his credit score has been affected.
Ive looked carefully at the information and evidence that has been provided by both parties 
to understand what has happened. 
In 2017, Mr E applied for a fixed rate on his joint mortgage, which was fixed for five years. 
This product was due to expire in October 2022. After expiry, the mortgage was due to revert 
to a lifetime tracker interest rate which at the time was 3.49% above Barclays base rate 
which was 0.25%.
Mr E said that in May 2021, he updated his address with Barclays. Its not entirely clear to me 
what address he moved to as it seems from the evidence he has provided, that he moved to 
property 2. 
If this is the case, then I can see that a letter notifying him of the product expiring was sent to 
property 2 on 17 August 2022. This letter confirmed the interest rate was due to end in 
October 2022 and would automatically switch to a lifetime tracker. So if this is the address 
that Mr E was staying at, which is the address that Barclays had on file  then I cant agree 
he didnt get notified.However, putting that aside, the same letter was sent to Mr Es wife on the same day at 
property 1 - notifying her that the product was coming to an end on the mortgage. 
This is a joint mortgage. While I accept that both parties are separated and living at separate 
addresses  one of those parties was notified about the change in the mortgage. And if Mr E 
wasnt living at property 2  then its plausible he didnt get the letter. 
However, both parties are jointly and severally liable for the mortgage debt. And it seems as 
though Mrs E didnt inform Mr E about this change because of their dispute, but its not 
reasonable to blame Barclays for the issues that happened.
Mr E said he didnt know the mortgage payments were increasing and had he of known 
beforehand, he would have secured a new interest rate. Its unfortunate the situation that Mr 
E finds himself in, but like Ive already said, both parties are responsible for the mortgage.
The direct debit then bounced once the payments had increased, and Mr E found out at this 
time about the change in interest rate  and he blames Barclays for the arrears on the 
mortgage because they didnt notify him of the change in the interest rate. 
Having looked at the information provided by Barclays, the last mortgage payment that was 
received by Barclays was in November 2022. The transaction history that I have been 
provided with goes up to August 2023, and there havent been any mortgage payments 
made to the mortgage at all. 
Even if Mr E wasnt told about the change in his payments, he could have continued to pay 
something towards the mortgage  even the same amount as he was paying before  but he 
hasnt. This may have possibly put him in a better position to agree and arrange a new 
interest rate. But he didnt pay anything towards the mortgage after that. 
The arrears have started to increase on the mortgage which has affected Mr Es credit file. 
As no mortgage payments have been made to the mortgage, Barclays are entitled to report 
this to the credit reference agencies to show a true reflection of the account. I cannot agree 
that Barclays are in any way responsible for the arrears on the mortgage because I cant see 
that Mr E has tried to rectify the situation by making some sort of payment towards it. 
I have seen that Mr E did inform Barclays in December 2022 that he was unable to work 
because of an injury. And that he was unable to pay towards the mortgage. But Mr E could 
have possibly of paid a smaller amount. And if he was unable to, this was because he 
couldnt work and not because Barclays told him to stop paying or because the letter wasnt 
sent to his address. Its likely that the mortgage account would have been in arrears 
regardless. 
With regards to Barclays needing consent from the other party about an interest rate 
change, I dont think this is unreasonable. Any change to the mortgage would affect both 
parties so its reasonable for Barclays to want permission from both Mr and Mrs E. And 
because the mortgage was also in arrears, its also reasonable for Barclays to ask for these 
to be cleared before a new rate is agreed. 
I know Mr E doesnt agree with this, and he disputes the amount of arrears on the mortgage 
which he believes is affecting his credit score, but the reality of the situation is  he hasnt 
paid anything towards the mortgage since November 2022 when he had a choice to at least 
pay something towards it  especially as he was aware soon after that the mortgage 
payments had increased. His credit file will always reflect what is happening with the 
mortgage, so I wont be asking Barclays to amend anything in relation to this. As this is a 
joint mortgage  both parties are responsible for making the payments towards the 
mortgage. 
And while I know he would like an apology from Barclays about the fact that a letter was sent 
to the wrong address, so he can show this to other lenders  I wont be asking Barclays to 
do this either. I do understand that Mr E is in a difficult situation as he isnt able to secure a new rate of 
interest or remortgage elsewhere because of his credit score, but this unfortunately isnt 
down to Barclays. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman