DRN-2910527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt replace a radiator valve 
that was faulty under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their policy as a thermostatic radiator valve (TRV) was 
leaking and water was falling on to their timber flooring. UKI appointed an engineer to attend 
the leak. He confirmed Mr and Mrs Ws investigations that the leak was coming from the 
control element / pin, so he removed the element and re-fitted the same valve, so in effect 
leaving a non-functioning TRV, so the radiator was left running at full temperature. This 
stopped the leaking.
Mr and Mrs W had spoken with the manufacturer to understand if the non-functioning valve 
could leak in the future. He was worried as they were leaving their house empty for 2-3 
weeks, so didnt want the leak to re-occur whilst they werent there. Mr and Mrs W asked the 
manufacturer for its opinion on the likelihood the valve may leak in the future and it said, [it] 
may leak past the gland seal where the pin comes through.  
UKI had its technical team review the job and said they have advised that the
engineer would not have been able to replace the thermostatic radiator valve, as this was 
classed as a maintenance issue rather than an emergency. Once the leak was isolated it 
was no longer causing any internal damage to your property, this concludes the end of your 
Home Emergency. The engineer was just giving advice regarding the replacement of the 
valve.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy as they had sourced a new TRV and wanted the engineer to fit 
it. As they didnt want any issues whilst they were away, they decided to pay for their own 
engineer to install the new TRV they had purchased.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said UKI made a temporary repair 
to stop the leak which was the requirement of the policy, so he didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W were unhappy that UKIs engineer would only stop leak 
by removing the pin and not replace the TRV, as they thought the amount of work required 
was the same and they were concerned about the repair not fixing the issue long-term. But 
unfortunately, I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I have reviewed the emergency cover that Mr and Mrs W have and I think UKI acted fairly 
and in line with the policy. The policy provides, Work undertaken by an Authorised Repairer 
to resolve the Emergency by completing a repair to temporarily or permanently rectify, repair 
or prevent further damage occurring by making safe the Emergency where possible.
From the accounts provided, it seems the repair that UKI carried out, at the very least 
provided a temporarily rectification of the issue and prevented further damage from 
occurring. I can also see that UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs W and said if they could provide a 
report and photographic evidence that the valve was still leaking, then it would re-open the 
claim. I have also noted that UKI has not only relied upon its engineers report, but it also 
sought the opinion from its own technical team to check that the actions carried out were fair 
in the circumstances of the emergency. I think this is a reasonable approach from UKI. As I 
havent seen any evidence put forward suggesting the repair hadnt worked, I dont think UKI 
has been unfair in closing the complaint.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W sought the opinion of the manufacturer to see if the leak 
would re-occur. Also, Mr and Mrs W has provided a detailed account of why they thought the 
repair may not be enough. However, the evidence shows the leak did stop and no evidence 
has been put forward to say it did re-occur, so I think its fair to conclude that UKIs actions 
did provide at least a temporary repair that prevented further damage. The purpose of the 
policy is not to provide a long-term guarantee for the work, its to stop the damage of the 
immediate emergency. I think UKI did this.
I know Mr and Mrs W wanted certainty as they were going away, so they had their own 
engineer make a replacement. They are entitled to do this. But as this wasnt a requirement 
of the policy, I dont think UKI have done anything wrong, so I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require UK Insurance Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman