DRN-1000551
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited has made of his car 
in a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was written off in an accident that wasnt his fault. He says the amount offered for 
it by Admiral isnt enough to buy the same car in the current market which leaves him out of 
pocket and unable to replace his car. He wants the cars value to be increased above the 
trade guide prices not least to reflect its excellent condition and high end options. 
Admiral said in its final response that its valuation of £4,750 takes into account the cars 
mileage and optional extras. The final valuation represents the highest of three trade guide 
prices. 
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said Mr Cs policy says the most 
Admiral will pay is the cars market value which is the cost of replacing it at the time of the 
loss. Admiral has, as wed expect it to do, taken into account the main trade guide prices and 
its offer of £4,750 is in line with them and is fair. She will not be asking it to pay any more.
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary, he says he 
wouldve had to pay between £7,000 and £8,000 to replace this car. Its not a mainstream 
car and only a handful are ever for sale at any time. There are none available for £4,750. 
The trade guides do not give realistic prices for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr Cs policy says Admiral will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his car at 
the time of loss. And that is the cost of replacing it at the time of the loss. That sum isnt 
necessarily the same amount that he bought the car for or the cost to him of actually 
replacing it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various trade guides and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced including adverts. But I place most weight on the values in the 
main trade guides as theyre based on likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, 
which allow a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices are by their very nature averages and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless, I think its fair and reasonable to use them to 
assess Admirals offer. In this case Admirals valuation of £4,750 is the highest of three main trade guide valuations. 
And it reflects the cars condition, mileage and optional extras.
Taking everything into account, although Im aware of Mr Cs frustration, I think Admiral has 
acted fairly when making this offer. And I dont think I can reasonably require Admiral to 
increase its valuation or pay any more, as Mr C would like.
Overall I think Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys terms and 
conditions. And I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman