DRN-2931945
The complaint
Mr N complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide ) acted irresponsibly when granting 
him credit card facilities.
What happened
Mr N says he applied for a credit card facility with Nationwide in May 2016. Mr N says at that 
time Nationwide only carried out minimal checks and they should have done more before 
providing him with a £2000 credit card limit. Mr N says he has suffered financial difficulties 
since and feels Nationwide should refund the interest and charges on his credit card account 
and amend his credit file accordingly.
Nationwide say Mr N went through a full credit worthiness and affordability assessment at 
the point of his application, using a range of internal and external data assessments. 
Nationwide feel that they have acted responsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ns complaint. The 
investigator felt that when Nationwide became aware of the adverse credit information on Mr 
Ns credit file a month or so after they had provided facilities to him, they should at that point 
have taken action, to prevent Mr N taking on more debt and potentially getting into further 
financial difficulty. The investigator felt Nationwide should refund all charges and interest on 
the credit card account, with additional 8% interest applied and a payment of £100 for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr N. 
Nationwide didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. The first thing to say is while I am aware Mr N has lodged a 
similar complaint against Nationwide regarding his overdraft facility, I will only be looking at 
his complaint regarding his credit card facility, which I have considered on its own individual 
merits. 
I can understand Mr N has been through a difficult time over the past few years which would 
have proved stressful for him. When coming to a full and impartial decision here I will 
consider if Nationwide carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when providing Mr N 
with a credit card facility in June 2016. 
What happened here was Mr N applied for a credit card account with Nationwide in June 
2016. Mr N says Nationwide only carried out minimal checks and didnt ask about his 
employment or ask for any further information about him, merely undertaking  a credit check, 
before issuing the credit card account with a £2000 credit limit. Mr N says he now finds 
himself in financial difficulties and is looking for Nationwide to refund all interest and charges 
and amend his credit file accordingly.
Nationwide says they carried out their usual affordability checks and used outside agencies 
to provide a credit history and relied on the information Mr N provided on his application. 
Nationwide says from the information they had, there was nothing to suggest Mr N wasnt 
suitable for this level of borrowing given his income was declared at £36000 at the time of 
the application. 
What is important here is Nationwide have advised this service that although at the time of 
application the credit report they received showed nothing untoward, a month later the same 
credit reference agency, advised them there was in fact an historic financial issue and 
default registered against Mr N. Nationwide have said by this time Mr N had fully utilised his 
credit card and was making minimum payments so there was little more they could do. 
Its fair to say that there is a responsibility for Mr N to have made known on his application 
for the credit card that he had been previously made bankrupt, as he describes it, as it 
would have been asked of him as part of the application for the credit card. So, with that in 
mind I cant say Nationwide should be asked to repay the amount borrowed here, bearing in 
mind Mr N has had the benefit of those monies. 
What isnt clear, is how on application, the credit searches didnt show Mr Ns previous 
default or historic financial problems, when the following month it did. I cant say with any 
certainty whether this was an error made by Nationwide when they carried out the search or 
incorrect information provided by the credit agency, either way the checks carried out were 
incomplete. While I accept Mr N should have advised Nationwide of his previous financial 
issues, part of the purpose of a credit search is to establish the information provided on 
application is correct - unfortunately here this seems to have slipped through the net and 
credit has been provided here when we wouldnt expect it to. Nationwide have accepted they 
wouldnt have provided the credit facility to Mr N if they had known of his previous financial 
problems. So here, while Nationwide may have carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks initially, once they discovered soon after, the information provided from those checks 
were incorrect, they should have acted at that time. 
Our further investigations have identified Mr N had entered into an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) in December 2013 and not a bankruptcy as he describes - this IVA was 
terminated in February 2017. So here, when Nationwide were made aware of the adverse 
entry the month after the credit card was issued in June 2016, that was the time to have 
discussed this with Mr N, in much more detail. If Nationwide had discussed this with Mr N or 
investigated it further, I am satisfied in all likelihood, they would have discovered he was in 
an IVA and would have acted upon that information. I am satisfied this would have resulted 
in the credit card account being frozen at that time. 
With this in mind, Nationwide should refund all interest and charges on the credit card 
account and remove any adverse credit entries from his credit file relating to that account. 
While Nationwide will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome 
here. 
Putting things rightI instruct Nationwide Building Society to refund any interest and charges, applied to Mr Ns 
credit card account, including 8% simple interest on that amount, since its opening in June 
2016, in reduction of any outstanding balance. Nationwide Building Society should remove 
any adverse entries on Mr Ns credit file relating to this debt. In addition, they should pay Mr 
N £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to refund any interest and charges, applied to Mr Ns 
credit card account, including 8% simple interest on that amount, since its opening in June 
2016, in reduction of any outstanding balance. Nationwide Building Society should remove 
any adverse entries on Mr Ns credit file relating to this debt. In addition, they should pay Mr 
N £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman