DRN-3830559
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund him money he 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr Z was looking to invest money and found an advertisement online for Bubblext. They 
claimed to be specialists in crypto trading and as this was of interest to Mr Z, he completed a 
contact form. Bubblext contacted Mr Z and he was convinced to transfer funds into a number 
of crypto exchanges and then once there, the funds were used to buy crypto. The crypto was 
then transferred to Bubblext. The investments that were made appeared legitimate. Mr Z 
was then convinced by Bubblext that investing more would maximise his potential profit.
Mr Z made the following debit card payments totalling £58,109.63 from his HSBC account as 
set out below. It is my understanding these funds were then sent on to Bubblext;
Payment Date Merchant Method Amount Running total
1 25 August 
2020Bitconvert Ltd Visa debit 
card£5,000 £5,000
2 25 August 
2020Bitconvert Ltd Visa debit 
card£7,000 £12,000
3 25 August 
2020Bitconvert Ltd Visa debit 
card£8,000 £20,000
4 8 September 
2020Swiftency OU Visa debit 
card£8,800 £28,800
5 8 September 
2020Swiftency OU Visa debit 
card£6,200 £35,000
6 8 September 
2020Swiftency OU Visa debit 
card£8,311 £43,311
7 9 September 
2020Impalax Visa debit 
card£8,994.75 £52,305.75
8 9 September 
2020Impalax Visa debit 
card£5,803.88 £58,109.63
Mr Z Bubblext trading account initially showed that he was making a profit before suddenly 
showing a massive loss. At this point Mr Z realised that he had been scammed.
 
Our Investigator considered Mr Zs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She thought 
the payment 2 to Bitconvert Ltd made on 25 August 2020 should have been significant 
enough to trigger HSBCs fraud prevention measures, and it should have stepped in at this 
stage to ask probing questions about the payments.
Our Investigator felt that, had HSBC stepped in at this time and asked relevant questions, it 
was likely HSBC would have been able to see the payments were most likely part of a scam 
and prevented any further loss. HSBC disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both Mr 
Z and HSBC set out what happened. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should refund any 
of the money Mr Z lost because of the scam. 
Mr Z has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Bubblext, so the starting point 
here is that Mr Z is responsible for making the payments. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
In relation to transaction 1, I think that it was not so unusual for HSBC to intervene given its 
size.
That said, transaction 2 I believe should have been considered unusual.  It was a larger 
amount and him making two transactions in a relatively short time to a new international 
payee should really have prompted HSBC to intervene. 
At this stage, HSBC should have stepped in and asked Mr Z in depth questions to find out 
what the payments related to. Had HSBC stepped in at this point, I think its likely Mr Z would 
have explained the reason he was suddenly making a number of large payments from his 
card within a relatively short space of time. 
HSBC would likely have discovered that the funds were intended to be converted to crypto 
and forwarded to a different trading firm. This has all the hallmarks of a typical crypto scam. 
So I think HSBC should have warned Mr Z at this point that he was likely being scammed.
HSBC have said that it believes that a warning would not have made a difference. It says 
that as Mr Z says he did his own research and studied a friends trades with Bubblext he 
would have gone ahead with the transactions regardless of any warning provided by HSBC. 
I have carefully considered this and I am not persuaded by this argument. I think a specific 
meaningful warning from his long-term trusted bank about this kind of scam explaining the 
dangers of sending cryptocurrency to a third-party trading platform would have at the very 
least made Mr Z look into crypto scams and whilst there was no specific warning about 
Bubblext there are a number of resources detailing crypto scams. Ultimately this was a large 
amount of money most of which was withdrawn from the equity in Mr Zs company so I think 
had a meaningful warning been given he would have done further research and ultimately 
heeded it. So, but for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial 
harm, Mr Z probably wouldnt have continued to make the additional payments.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their actions. In this case, I do not think that Mr Z was to blame for what 
happened and I havent seen anything to suggest that he had foreseen the risk of this sort of 
harm occurring, or indeed any harm. I do not think Mr Z could have foreseen the risk that the 
company he was dealing with was in fact scammers and the trading account he was viewing 
was likely to be a simulation. I also cant see there were any credible warnings in place 
about the Bubblext at the time Mr Z started making the payments. So, in the circumstances, I 
do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr Z should share 
blame for what happened.I have considered whether HSBC could have recovered transaction 1. As this payment was 
made using his debit card, the only way to recover the funds would be via the chargeback 
process. However, as this transaction was to purchase crypto for Mr Z in the first instance 
and Mr Z did receive the crypto (before he then transferred it on), I dont think a chargeback 
would have been successful.
In relation to the interest award HSBC have argued that some of the funds came from a 
savings account and therefore the interest rate for that account should be used rather than 
the 8% the investigator recommended. I note though that the majority of the funds came as a 
dividend payment from Mr Zs business so he was deprived of these funds and therefore I 
think that an 8% award is reasonable and in line with our general approach when someone 
is deprived of funds.
Putting things right
1) Refund transaction 2 to 8.
2) Pay simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date each payment was made, 
until the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc, trading as HSBC Bank, to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman