DRN-3684294
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) behaved towards
her in relation to a motor finance agreement she had with it.
What happened
Miss M had a hire purchase agreement with Startline for a used car. In May 2020 Miss M 
contacted Startline as she was experiencing temporary financial difficulty due to the impact 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Both Miss M and Startline agree about the following, Miss M initially wanted a payment 
deferral of three months. Startline agreed to one month only. This was because it wanted to 
look into Miss Ms financial situation to assess if it might properly offer her a longer payment 
deferral. Therefore, it asked her for information about her financial situation. Miss M 
contacted Startline again in August 2020 wanting a further payment deferral because her 
financial situation was still being impacted by the pandemic. Startline again requested 
information about her current financial situation. 
According to Miss M, she provided the information about her finances that Startline wanted 
but heard nothing further until she found out that her agreement had been defaulted. Miss M 
also complains that Startline started repossession proceeding when it should not have done. 
Miss M explains that her car is her only means of transporting her young children and it is 
therefore essential, from her perspective, that she has a car.
Moreover, Miss M indicates she is a vulnerable consumer by reason of her mental health 
and due to other medical conditions as well. Miss M suggests that prior to May 2020 shed 
made Startline aware of her vulnerability and the reasons for it.  However, despite having 
this knowledge, in Miss Ms opinion, Startline did not treat her appropriately in the light of her 
status. Miss M complained to Startline.
Startline does not agree it treated Miss M inappropriately in any way. It suggests that the 
defaulting of the account did not come out of the blue. Rather, it told Miss M in October 2020 
she was in arrears and if she did not make the payment for that month the account might be 
defaulted. It suggests Miss M agreed it could take the payment for October by direct debit, 
but the direct debit was returned unpaid. It adds that it tried to contact Miss M several times 
in November and December 2020. None of this contact led to a resolution. Therefore, as a 
last resort, it terminated the agreement in December 2020 and registered a default. It did not 
comment on the part of Miss Ms complaint about its treatment of her, in light of her being a 
vulnerable consumer. 
Dissatisfied, Miss M came to our service.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ms complaint. He recommended that Miss Ms 
complaint be upheld. To put things right he said Startline must.
 refund any charges applied to the agreement for dishonoured payments, arrears 
letters or telephone calls because of the default.
 pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
 pay £300 for distress and inconvenience.
 remove any adverse information from the Miss Ms credit file in relation to this matter.
Miss M received our investigators recommendation but did not tell us whether she accepted 
it or not, whereas Startline rejected it. In brief, Startline objected to the recommendation on 
the basis that it thought we were saying all motor finance consumers had an automatic right 
under the rules that applied at the time  (I will talk about these rules more below) to a 
payment deferral of three months. Whereas the rules were more nuanced than that. 
Specifically, Startline pointed out under those rules it had to assess whether a three-month 
payment deferral was in the customers best interest. To do this it said it had to look into her 
financial circumstances. It pointed out that Miss Ms payment history had not been perfect 
before May 2020 and it thought this was a factor it needed to take into account when 
assessing whether to grant payment deferrals.
Startline asked that an ombudsman review Miss Ms complaint.
I issued a provisional decision, this is what I said about what Id provisionally decided and 
why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. I 
think both parties agree that Miss M was a vulnerable consumer. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) which is the body which regulates Startline made 
it clear that protecting vulnerable consumers ought to be a key focus for firms and that it was 
more important than ever due to the impact of Covid-19. With this in mind I think Startline 
ought reasonably have had due regard for Miss Ms vulnerability when to applying the rules 
that related to consumers who had motor finance agreements and were experiencing 
temporary financial difficulty due to Covid-19.
In particular, Miss M tells us she had mental health issues and neurological conditions. She 
added that stress could make her mental health issues worse. Moreover, her neurological 
conditions significantly impact her ability to communicate, and to understand unless 
information is explained in a specific way. For the reasons I will set out below, I think the way 
Startline applied the rules and its communications with Miss M fell short of the standard Miss 
M was entitled to expect given her individual circumstances.
The FCA introduced guidance, which set out what firms such as Startline had to do where 
consumers faced temporary financial difficulty in relation to motor finance agreement due to 
the pandemic. In fact, the FCA issued several sets of guidance. But I will give the several 
sets of guidance the collective name of the guidance. 
In particular the guidance says:
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so.It is clear that the granting of a 3-month payment deferral was the baseline position. With the 
caveat that a firm could decline to give a payment deferral where it was not in the customers 
bests interests to do so. So, I agree that there was no automatic right to the three-month 
payment deferral, and I am not saying there was, but there was a presumption it would be 
granted subject to the caveat. Whereas Startlines approach did not seem to come from this 
starting point.
Startline mentions Miss Ms payment history prior to May 2020. However, as far as I am 
aware the financial difficulties, she had in May 2020 arose solely due to the pandemic. 
Therefore, those previous financial difficulties were irrelevant to this complaint. It follows 
there was no need for to consider them as they had not led to this situation for Miss M. 
In any event I am not persuaded that a type of affordability assessment was necessary at all 
even if it had just focused on Miss Ms situation in May 2020. I say this because the reason 
why Miss M was asking for assistance in the first place was because her finances had been 
thrown out unexpectedly by an event outside of her control. So of course, a check at that 
point was likely to show Miss M would have difficulties making her repayments during the 
payment deferral period, that seems obvious.
 
Moreover, as previously mentioned, the guidance talked about the temporary and immediate 
support that firms were expected to give to consumers who experienced financial difficulties 
with their finance repayments due to the pandemic. Albeit Startline had to take account of 
Miss Ms best interests in offering this support. Startline suggests that in order to carry out its 
duty to Miss M it had to look into her financial situation in depth. However, my reading of the 
guidance does not suggest there was an overarching duty on Startline to carry out a detailed 
check as a necessary precursor to offering the immediate support the guidance anticipated.  
Rather, in this particular situation, I think Startline ought fairly to have offered Miss M the 
option to accept three-month deferrals in both May and August 2020. Had it done this the 
current situation may well have been avoided.  This was all the more regrettable due to Miss 
Ms vulnerabilities, where I think Startline was under an additional duty to make sure it took 
account of her vulnerabilities in discharging its duties correctly.
In all of the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to put Miss M into the situation 
she most likely would have been in if the payment deferrals had been granted in May 2020 
and August 2020. Therefore, in addition to the redress outlined by our investigator I think 
Startline must reinstate the agreement. That is so that Miss M continues to benefit from all of 
the protections she is afforded under the type of consumer credit agreement she entered 
into with Startline. If for any reason Startline is unable to reinstate the agreement, then 
please can it explain this and why in its response to this provisional decision.
Moreover, Miss M and Startline will have to come to some agreement between themselves 
about how Miss M pays back any remaining arrears accrued between May 2020 and 
December 2020. However, any arrangement they come to must be in line with the guidance. 
Miss M suggests that Startline did not communicate with her especially about the default. 
But Startlines records which I have no reason to doubt suggest otherwise. That said Miss M 
tells us she told Startline about her communication needs and her need to receive 
information in a specific way. As far as I can see, Startline did not ask her what those 
communication needs were so it is not clear how it could have met them. I think this may 
very likely have caused Miss M distress and inconvenience for which Startline ought fairly to 
compensate her. Ill talk more about this below.
In addition, I think bearing in mind the guidance, Startline acted unfairly by taking action to 
repossess the car in the timeline that it did given that all of Miss Ms financial difficulties 
appeared to spring from reasons linked to the pandemic. I dont agree that Startline can rely on Miss Ms failure to start repayments in October as agreed to establish that starting the 
repossession process was appropriate  that process should never have begun at that stage 
in any event. Therefore, whether Miss M responded to Startline after agreeing to start 
repayments again is not relevant. For these reasons as well as writing off any charges 
relating to the repossession, I think Startline ought fairly to ask the credit reference agencies 
to remove any adverse information it asked them to register on Miss Ms credit file about the 
repossession activities. I also find that Startlines errors would most likely have caused Miss 
M to experience distress and inconvenience for which it ought reasonably compensate Miss 
M.
Taking account of all the circumstances, I think an award of £400 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
Miss M has raised a new complaint about a new issue. She complains that due to being off 
sick from work since February 2021 she is now experiencing financial difficulties. She 
suggests Startline has not treated her correctly in relation to this new issue.  This issue has 
not been considered by Startline in its final response to Miss M or investigated within this 
complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this matter in this final decision.
The provisional decision I came to was as follows:
My provisional decision is that I currently intend to order the following redress Startline 
Motor Finance Limited must:
Reinstate the hire purchase agreement with Miss M.
Refund any charges applied to the agreement for dishonored payments, arrears 
letters or telephone calls because of the default or any late payments that happened 
before the default. 
Refund any charges applied in relation to the repossession process. 
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year on all refunded amounts set out above. 
The interest to run from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Remove any adverse information that it has asked the credit reference agencies to 
register on Miss Ms credit file in relation to this matter.
If I issue a final decision following this provisional decision, it must pay the total 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which Miss M accepts my final decision.  If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £400 from the date of the final decision 
until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss M can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss M should refer back to Startline Motor Finance Limited if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
I invited Miss M and Startline to respond to my provisional decision. Miss M did respond, as 
far as I am aware we have received no response from Startline.
In summary, Miss M covered the following points in her response. Miss M provided further 
detailed information about her mental health from several doctors. She reiterated that before 
any of the matters she complains about happened she had told Startline about her mental 
health conditions and her other health conditions and how they impacted on her. She also 
suggested she had had to give Startline this same information on more than once occasion which appears to have distressed her still further. She also suggested as she had done 
before, that she has given Startline relevant and sufficient information about her financial 
situation when asked. But in response, in her opinion, Startline took an inflexible approach 
and did not acknowledge or respond to her needs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss M for her response to my provisional decision. Ive reviewed the file again and 
revisited my provisional decision.
Miss M has given further details about her mental health and about how it impacts on her 
day-to-day life. Miss M has also described how Startlines behaviour impacted on her in an 
especially difficult way due both to her mental health conditions and other health conditions 
at the time and due to her changed financial circumstances solely due to the impact of the 
pandemic. I found in my provisional decision that in the circumstances given the guidance, 
Startline failure to follow the guidance, Miss Ms vulnerability and what Startline most likely 
knew about this, it had not treated her appropriately. I also found that this had likely caused 
her distress and inconvenience and the award I made of £400 was in recognition of this. I 
appreciate that Miss M has, in response to my provisional decision, more fully expanded on 
her health issues and the impact of Startlines behaviour on her. She has also repeated it did 
not meet her reasonable communication needs. However, I do not find that, in the 
circumstances, this new information and the repeated information means that I ought to 
increase that payment or order further additional redress.
Under the guidance Miss M was entitled to a payment deferral of up to six months. She has 
had a payment deferral of one month at least, it seems. But as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision Startline must now retrospectively treat Miss M as if she had applied for deferrals of 
three months in both May 2020 and August 2020 and as if she had been granted these 
payment deferrals. It must do this for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and 
also I find it must do this because it has not shown it was not in Mss Ms best interests to 
grant her these payment deferrals.
That said, its not clear if Miss M has now made these repayments. If she has not Miss M 
and Startline will have to talk to each other about how these repayments can be made. But 
whatever solution they come up with must be in line with the guidance.
In light of the further information that Miss M has provided I underline that the onus is now on 
Startline to communicate with Miss M in line with her communication needs. Further, Miss M 
has talked about having to provide the same medical information on several different 
occasions to Startline. It might like to think about its obligations to her and how it can avoid 
her having to go through the same experience in future. For example, it might like to 
consider, if possible, giving Miss M one single point of contact.
I also want to make it as clear as possible that the default should never have been issued, 
therefore the agreement should never have been terminated. When I say below that I require 
Startline to reinstate the agreement that means it must behave as is if the agreement was 
never ended.
I have not been persuaded by the response to my provisional decision that I need to alter the 
conclusions I had provisionally reached. It follows I have reached the same conclusions as I 
did in my provisional decision for the reasons set out in that provisional decision and in this 
final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Startline Motor Finance Limited to:Reinstate the finance agreement with Miss M.
Behave towards Miss M as if it had granted her payment deferrals in May 2020 and 
August 2020, which includes refunding any charges and any fees whatsoever applied 
to the agreement for late/missed payments that would not have been applied if Miss 
M had been granted three-month payment deferrals in May 2020 and August 2020.
Refund any charges and any fees whatsoever applied to the agreement because of 
the default.
Refund any charges and any fees whatsoever applied in relation to the repossession 
process. 
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year on all refunded amounts set out above. 
The interest to run from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Remove any adverse information that it has asked the credit reference agencies to 
register on Miss Ms credit file in relation to this matter.
It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Miss M accepts my 
final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £400 from the date of 
the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss M can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss M should refer back to Startline Motor Finance Limited if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman