DRN-4298092
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Monzo Bank Ltd dealt with his requests for chargebacks.
What happened
In late March 2022, Mr M requested that Monzo apply for chargebacks in respect of two 
transactions (which Ill refer to as B and 7). He did this via his banking app. In respect of 
B, Mr Ms initial application was rejected by Monzo as the 14 day time limit for the merchant 
to reply hadnt expired. However, Mr M resubmitted the application and Monzo says it should 
have raised a dispute with the card provider at that stage. In respect of 7, Monzo initially 
rejected this because it said it had insufficient evidence. However it did then say it had 
received sufficient evidence from Mr M and should have raised a dispute at that stage.
In respect of both matters, Monzo did then, within seven days, raise disputes and was 
successful in recovering the money that Mr M had paid out. It had already recredited his 
account before this.  It apologised for the inconvenience and frustration caused by the delay 
in it raising the disputes. In respect of Mr Ms issues regarding customer service and the way 
it had dealt with his complaint, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It paid him 
compensation of £50.
Mr M said that, although his complaints had been resolved, he didnt think that the 
compensation paid was sufficient.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that Monzo had dealt 
with Mr Ms complaints appropriately and had paid reasonable compensation. 
Mr M didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I shall be dealing with Mr Ms complaints as dealt with in Monzos final 
response letter of 12 April 2023. If he has any further complaints about issues that arose 
after that date, he will need to put them to Monzo.
experienced inconsistent and unclear responses 
Having reviewed Monzos complaint notes, in particular the online chat details, I dont find 
that the interactions were inconsistent or unclear. Mr M hasnt been able to elaborate on this.
transaction with K
This was another chargeback issue. Monzo did mention it briefly in its final response letter, 
when it notes Mr M had to ask more than once to collect the refund. It apologised for this. 
Our Investigator asked for further information, but Mr M was unable to supply any. In any 
event, as I shall set out below, it was fair to combine this with the other two matters when 
dealing with Mr Ms complaints.
requesting additional evidence
In respect of both disputes Monzo asked for additional evidence, which Mr M says caused 
him frustration and concern that his complaints werent taken seriously. In respect of the 7 
matter Monzo has agreed it did have sufficient evidence and shouldnt have requested more. 
But it did need further evidence for the B matter. And as the chargeback process is run by 
the card provider, the bank has to follow the providers rules when raising a dispute, and as 
Monzo explained, it needed to produce all the evidence at the time of raising the dispute. 
I think Monzo acted appropriately here, and apologised and paid reasonable compensation 
for any delay in asking for evidence it already had.
fail to act in a timely manner
Monzo agrees that it should have raised disputes for both matters earlier that it did. But it did 
raise both disputes within seven days of Mr M raising complaints about them. So although I 
can understand his frustration at both matters being initially rejected, I think Monzo acted in 
a timely manner to resolve both matters.
initial rejection of both matters
I have already dealt with these issues here. Monzo agreed that it should have raised both 
disputes earlier and not rejected them when it had received the appropriate evidence from 
Mr M. As Ive said, it then acted in a timely manner to resolve them and was successful in 
obtaining refunds in both cases.
combining a number of complaints
Mr M complains that Monzo combined several of his complaints into one issue.
Its a matter for Monzo how it handled Mr Ms complaints. As they concerned chargeback 
requests which occurred around the same time, and concerned the customer service for the 
requests which was also raised at the same time during the online chats, I dont see that 
Monzo did anything wrong in combining them.
compensation
Mr M believes this wasnt sufficient. Monzo paid him £50. The disputes in question were 
raised fairly quickly after Mr M complained about them in late March 2023. And, as they were 
resolved by the time Monzo sent its final response letter of 12 April 2023, I think the 
compensation paid was fair and reasonable and in line with awards we have made in similar 
cases.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman