The complaint
Mrs C complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mrs C was given six loans by Cashfloat between January and May 2017. Mrs C explains that 
she was in financial difficulty and borrowing from other lenders and using the money for 
gambling.
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Cashfloat 
should have agreed to give loans 4-6 to Mrs C on the basis of her borrowing pattern up to 
that point. So he asked Cashfloat to pay Mrs C some compensation.
Cashfloat didnt agree with that assessment and replied to say in summary that Mrs C 
successfully repaid her loans and its checks showed that she had enough disposable 
income to meet the repayments on all the loans. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
DRN-1639341meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Cashfloat asked Mrs C for some information about her income and his expenditure before 
agreeing the loans. And it gathered further details about Mrs C finances by performing a 
credit check before each loan too. I think these were a reasonable set of checks for loans 1-
3 given the length of the relationship that Mrs C had with Cashfloat, and considering the 
loans she was asking to take. On the basis of what I could reasonably expect Cashfloat to 
do there was nothing to suggest that it shouldnt have given Mrs C loans 1 to 3.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender must also react 
appropriately to the information that they have in addition to the checks. And I think that at 
the point of loan 4 Mrs C borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and suggested that she 
wasnt responsibly managing her money.
Mrs C asked for loan 4 only a few days after repaying loan 3 and for an increased amount. 
This should have alerted Cashfloat that Mrs C might not be able to repay her loan without 
borrowing again. Cashfloat said that an underwriter called Mrs C to check her financial 
circumstances and she didnt say that she was in difficulty. I dont think that it was enough to 
rely on what Mrs C was saying at this point as her borrowing pattern suggested otherwise. 
So it follows that I think it would have been proportionate to have asked Mrs C for further 
evidence about her finance. If Cashfloat had done these checks it would have seen that Mrs 
C was facing financial problems.
And the situation, as shown by Mrs Cs borrowing history, didnt improve over the remaining 
time that Mrs C borrowed from Cashfloat. 
So I agree with the adjudicator and I dont think that Cashfloat should have agreed to give 
loans 4-6 to Mrs C. Putting things right
I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to give loans 4-6 to Mrs C. So for each of those 
loans Cashfloat should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs C on loans 4-6.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in relation to loans
4-6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Western Circle Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman