DRN-3049365
The complaint
Mrs A complains Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages (Siberite) unfairly 
registered adverse credit information on her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs A has a buy to let mortgage (BTL) with Siberite and in April 2020 contacted them to 
explain that due to the impact of Covid she was not working, and her tenant wasnt regularly 
meeting her monthly rent payments. Mrs A says that despite keeping Siberite regularly 
informed of her situation and making part payments to her BTL, Siberite registered adverse 
information on her credit file. Mrs A says Siberite agreed she should make the mortgage 
payments as best she could and also advised that her credit file wouldnt be impacted. Mrs A 
thinks its unfair her credit file has been impacted as a result of the problems that Covid 
caused her and wants her credit file amended accordingly. 
Siberite says they offered Mrs A a payment holiday, or deferral, but she declined this, and 
they advised her that any missed or late payments may reflect on her credit file, which they 
say she acknowledged at the time.  Siberite says they have a responsibility to correctly 
advise the credit agencies of the true activity on her BTL with them and have done nothing 
wrong. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with Siberites response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. 
The investigator says Siberite have provided phone call evidence to confirm Mrs A was 
offered a payment deferral and told of the consequences of not meeting her monthly BTL 
commitments. As a result, she didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been a worrying time for Mrs A finding herself without work 
and her tenant not regularly making the monthly rental payments she needed, to cover her 
BTL payments. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Siberite acted fairly when it 
registered adverse information on Mrs As credit file, when she didnt meet her full monthly 
BTL payments.
The first thing to say is when making an impartial decision here, I have to take into account 
all the circumstances. That includes the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which 
affected both businesses and customers alike. 
What is important here is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) put in place in March 2020, 
guidance for lenders like Siberite in the exceptional circumstances arising out of coronavirus 
(Covid-19) and its impact on the financial situation of its customers.
It stated that :
 where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
holiday, a firm should grant a customer a payment holiday for 3 monthly payments, unless it 
can demonstrate it is reasonable and, in the customers, best interest to do otherwise.
From the information provided to this service by both parties, and from the various telephone 
call recordings I have listened to, its fair to say that a dialogue existed between Mrs A and 
Siberite whilst she was facing difficulties meeting the full monthly BTL payments. Mrs A did 
make clear to Siberite she was experiencing problems meeting her monthly payments, 
specifically in a call to them in April 2020. During that conversation, and other calls I have 
listened to, the staff at Siberite did act sympathetically and offered the option of a payment 
deferral to Mrs A, which was declined. In addition, Siberite did advise Mrs A there could be 
an impact on her credit file if her full monthly payments werent met, which she 
acknowledged at that time. 
So, in normal circumstance I would say that Siberite hadnt been unreasonable or unfair 
when registering the actual activity on her BTL with the appropriate agencies given she was 
effectively in arrears  but its fair to say these werent normal circumstances here. I take the 
view the FCA were looking for businesses, like Siberite, to treat all their customers in a 
similar way when it came to providing assistance during the pandemic. I say this because 
Siberite were expected to allow their customers a temporary payment deferral, irrespective 
of the background surrounding the reasons why it was needed, and to ensure that during the 
exceptional circumstances that Covid presented, any missed payments werent reported to 
the relevant credit agencies, where possible, unless doing so wasnt in the customers best 
interests. 
What happened here was Mrs A did make regular payments throughout April to September 
2020 and mistakenly believed that was a better course of action for her rather than taking a 
payment deferral, even though this was offered by Siberite when she first contacted them. I 
also accept that Siberite did advise Mrs A, her credit file may be affected if her payments 
werent met. So, although Siberite arguably havent deliberately misled Mrs A, I take the view 
that if a fuller explanation had been given to Mrs A of what a payment deferral  would mean 
to her individual circumstances and what the longer-term impact might have on her, there 
would in all likelihood have been a different outcome here. I say this as I would expect 
businesses, like Siberite with their expertise in financial matters to give more comprehensive 
information to their customers as to what is in their best interests,  especially in exceptional 
circumstances like this. 
Under the guidance given by the FCA, Mrs A would have been entitled to a three- month 
payment deferral and this was further extended, so Mrs A would have been entitled to a total 
of six months of deferred payments without any arrears being marked on her credit file. This 
would, in Mrs As circumstances, have taken the deferral payment date to the end of 
September 2020.
Its fair to say from what Mrs A has told this service, given the impact Covid had on her 
personally and financially, she wasnt best placed to make the decisions she did at that time. 
While Im not putting any responsibility on Siberite for that, I am satisfied someone who had 
made regular monthly payments, representing around 90% of the total payments due, 
shouldnt have arrears on her credit file for the months in question in these particular circumstances.
With this in mind, if Siberite had provided the six months deferral available to Mrs A to the 
end of September 2020, given that we know Mrs A had made BTL payments of £2470 
during this time, its fair to say that these monies would have been available to her to make 
further monthly mortgage payments thereafter, at least until the end of February 2021 ( 5 x 
£462.59 = £2312.95). This would have taken Mrs A to the end of February 2021 without any 
arrears/missed payments needing to be registered against her credit file. 
So, while I can understand Siberite believed it was right to reflect the true activity on Mrs As 
BTL, in the same way, the unprecedented circumstances that existed should also be taken 
into account. I am satisfied when Mrs A mentioned she was experiencing financial difficulties 
back in April 2020, it would have been appropriate for Siberite, given the guidance they had 
received from the FCA, at that point to have put in place a payment deferral, for the reasons 
I have already mentioned. On balance, I am satisfied the fair way forward here is for Siberite 
to remove any arrears markers it recorded on Mrs As credit file for this mortgage between 
April 2020 and February 2021. With this in mind, its also fair that Siberite refund any arrears 
fees charged to Mrs A over the period between April 2020 and February 2021, and any 
interest they charged as a result of those fees.
While Siberite will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I am satisfied this is a 
pragmatic and fair way forward here in all the circumstances. 
Both Mrs A and Siberite have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs A and Siberite until 10 October 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Mrs A accepted my provisional decision but Siberite did not and have asked me to 
reconsider my provisional decision.
Siberite says their agents are not financial advisors and cannot be seen to give advice, and  
Mrs A chose not to take a payment deferral in April 2020 when offered by them. Additionally, 
Siberite says Mrs A informed them that she wasnt worried about her credit file when she 
spoke to them at that time.
I understand what Siberite are saying here, but its reasonable to say they are the financial 
experts here, not Mrs A and as I said in my provisional decision, they should have given Mrs 
A appropriate  information and guidance during these exceptional times. Thats not the same 
as saying they should have given her advice. 
 While Mrs A may have said she wasnt worried about her credit file, its also fair to say this 
was at a particularly difficult time. In this case, I accept the offer was made to defer the 
payments, but I dont think that went far enough here to explain the longer- term implications 
it might have for Mrs A if a payment deferral wasnt put in place. I maintain it was for Siberite 
to explain this to Mrs A, and they didnt do so. Its also worth saying, knowing what we know 
now, that Mrs A made approximately 90% of her monthly BTL mortgage payments during 
the exceptional circumstances that Covid presented. I am satisfied, if a fuller explanation of 
the benefits of a payment deferral had been given by Siberite, its reasonable to say, Mrs A 
may well have come to a different decision.As I said in my provisional decision, I accept Siberite have gone some way to help Mrs A, 
but in this case I am satisfied, they should have done more to inform her and enable her to 
protect her longer-term financial position. 
I cant say that Siberites further comments here changes my original provisional decision 
and I see no need to change or add to this, and so my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages, to remove any arrears 
markers on Mrs As credit file, relating to the arrears on this mortgage between April 2020 
and February 2021. In addition, they should refund any arrears fees and interest on those 
fees, charged during this period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages, to remove any arrears 
markers on Mrs As credit file, relating to the arrears on this mortgage between April 2020 
and February 2021. In addition, they should refund any arrears fees and interest on those 
fees, charged during this period .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman