DRN-4061575
The complaint
Mr W feels that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) obtained his personal information 
deceitfully and is unhappy that they wont delete his personal information as he requests.
What happened
Mr W applied for an online YBS account and submitted his personal identity documents via 
an online service. But the online service couldnt verify Mr W via his online submissions, and 
so Mr W was asked to present his documents either in person in branch or by post. Mr W 
didnt want to do this and so asked YBS to cancel his application and delete his personal 
information. But YBS explained that while they would close the newly opened account, they 
were obliged to retain his personal information as per their legal requirements. Mr W wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
YBS responded to Mr W and reiterated that theyre obliged to retain his personal information 
to comply with their legal obligations. Mr W wasnt satisfied with YBSs response, so he 
raised a complaint.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel YBS had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation. Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, 
this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant 
law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on 
determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the factors and circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
In this instance, while I appreciate that Mr W may not like how matters have transpired, I 
dont feel that he has been treated unfairly by YBS.
One of the reasons I say this is because YBS did enable Mr W to attempt to verify his 
personal identity documents online. Unfortunately, YBS wasnt satisfied with the documents 
presented by Mr W via the online service and so asked Mr W to present his documents 
either by post or in person.
This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel it follows that all attempts at online verification 
should necessarily be successful. And if YBS held concerns about Mr Ws documents as 
presented online  as they did  then I feel that they would reasonably be expected to 
request sight of the original documents to resolve those concerns. And I also dont feel that 
it's unreasonable for Mr W to have been expected to present his documents in person in 
branch, or to have posted the documents to YBS as an alternative option. 
Of course, its for Mr W to decide if he doesnt want to comply with YBSs requirement in this 
regard. But given that I dont feel that YBSs requirement is unreasonable or unfair, it follows 
that I also dont feel that the consequences of Mr W not complying with that requirement, 
about which he now complains, are unreasonable or unfair. 
YBS have explained that their account opening process includes opening a new account at 
the time of the application, pending receipt of personal identification documents, so that the 
documents, when received, can be appended to that newly opened account  the 
functionality of which will be released to the applicant upon their successful verification. 
Its for YBS to set their account opening processes. And I dont feel their process is unfair, 
given the several channels that YBS present to applicants to verify themselves to YBSs 
satisfaction.
YBS have also confirmed that when an account is opened  as Mr Ws account was  they 
are then bound by legal obligations surrounding opened accounts which mean that theyre 
required to retain the personal information provided to them by Mr W for a period of 15 
years. And while Mr W did ask to close the account within the 14-day cooling off period, YBS 
have explained that the closure of an account during a cooling off period doesnt absolve 
them of their obligations to retain the personal information of the applicant. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that YBS gave Mr W a fair opportunity to verify himself to YBSs 
satisfaction, via the online process which unfortunately wasnt successful, and via the in-
person and by-post options. And while Mr W may not have been happy that that he wasnt 
able to verify himself to YBSs satisfaction online, it doesnt follow from this that Mr W has 
been treated unfairly. Accordingly, I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman