DRN-2645277
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.  
The policy covered Mr H in the event of his being unable to work due to sickness or 
redundancy. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr H have said they cant remember being asked about the PPI when they took out 
their mortgage. However, this was a very long time ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if they  
didnt remember every detail of what happened when they applied for the mortgage. And I 
have looked at their mortgage application form, and I can see there is a section where they 
could also apply for PPI. The word Yes has been writing in by hand, against the question of 
whether they wish to apply for PPI. Also, in this section, is a number of other questions to 
establish eligibility  such as whether they currently had a medical condition or were 
expecting redundancy. Against these has been written the word No. 
So I think its likely they were aware of the PPI that was being offered, and that they actively 
chose to take it, even if now they dont remember it.
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr H, in the sense of assessing 
their circumstances and telling them it would be a good fit for their needs. So it would have 
been for Mrs and Mr H to decide whether it was suitable for them, and whether they thought 
the benefits were worth the costs.  Mr H has said he only had a need for unemployment 
cover  but this would have been his choice at the time, and he could have decided not to 
apply for the Bradford & Bingley PPI and instead to find just unemployment cover elsewhere. 
Its hard now to know how well Bradford & Bingley explained all the benefits and restrictions 
of the policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this 
would have affected whether Mrs and Mr H took the PPI. It seems Mr H (the person 
covered) wouldnt have been affected by the significant exclusions.   And I think its likely 
Mrs and Mr H at least had the key information about what the PPI covered, and how much 
the benefits were. 
Mrs and Mr H have said that Mr H had Permanent Health Insurance (PHI) as a result of 
being in his works pension scheme. I dont have details of how much that insurance would 
pay, or when it would be claimable. So its possible the PPI offered more than the PHI in 
terms of accident and sickness cover, as well offering unemployment cover. But, more 
importantly, I think its likely Mrs and Mr H would have been aware that the PPI included 
accident and sickness cover. The application form made this clear. 
So it would have been Mrs and Mr Hs choice to take the PPI, which included sickness 
cover, at the same time as knowing they had PHI. It wouldnt have been for Bradford and 
Bingley to make that choice for them. 
Overall, I dont have good evidence that this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman