DRN-2862332
The complaint
Ms F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a scam. 
She lost £5,450 when trying to buy a car online and the bank has said its unable to help.
What happened
Ms Fs partner had been looking online for a van for his business. He found one that suited 
his needs and entered communications with the seller. A price was agreed and collection 
was arranged. Unfortunately Ms F and her partner were in fact dealing with a scammer who 
had faked the advert.
Ms Fs partner tried to make a payment from his own account held with a different bank but it 
didnt go through. And so he sent the money to Ms F so she could send it on. Ms F set up a 
new payee through her online banking, following the scammers instructions, and sent the 
£5,450. 
Ms Fs partner realised the sale was a scam the next day. He was looking for more vans and 
found the same one he believed hed bought advertised on a different website. Ms F 
contacted Clydesdale to report the scam.
Clydesdale got in touch with the receiving bank within an hour to see if any funds could be 
recovered. But the funds had already been removed from the recipient account and so were 
irrecoverable, aside from just £0.28.
Clydesdale considered whether there was anything else it ought to have done at the time the 
payment was made. It didnt think the payment was particularly unusual and so said there 
was no reason for it to have blocked or questioned it before allowing it to leave Ms Fs 
account. 
Ms F was unhappy with the banks response and so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
could see Ms F had properly authorised the payment and there hadnt been anything 
particularly unusual about it that ought to have caused the bank concern. And he could see 
the bank had taken appropriate steps to try and recover the funds from the recipient account.
Im now reviewing the case as Ms F was unhappy with the outcome reached by the 
investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms F and her partner. Having money stolen in this 
way is a particularly distressing crime. It has not only a financial impact but an emotional one 
too. But having thought very carefully about Clydesdales actions, I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably in allowing the money to leave Ms Fs account. I also dont find it could have 
done any more than it did to try and recover the money.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms F, when the transfer was made to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Theres no question as to whether the transaction was properly authorised by Ms F. Shes 
confirmed she set up and executed the payment instruction and so she authorised the 
money to leave her account. That remains true even though she did so under false 
pretences, at the instruction of a fraudster. And so the bank was obliged to act on the 
instruction it was given. 
There are times when Id expect a bank to receive an instruction and to consider that 
something might be wrong. That might be when a transaction is unusually large for a 
customer, for example, though there are many factors to be considered for any particular 
payment. Should a bank have sufficient concern that its customer might be at risk of financial 
harm a bank can intervene and make enquiries before completing a transaction. But, here, I 
dont find there was enough going on to now say the bank ought to have prevented the 
payment from going ahead.
The money Ms F and her partner have lost is not an insignificant sum. But it wasnt so large 
and unusual that I believe the bank ought to have suspected something was wrong, even if 
Ms F hadnt made payments similar in size previously. The sum is, generally speaking, not 
an unusual amount for a customer to send by way of bank transfer. And I cant see there 
was anything else about the circumstances that make me believe the bank ought to have 
acted differently to how it did and I dont find it should now refund the loss.
I can see the transaction was also funded in a way that is typical of many customers for 
perhaps larger than usual payments, as well as Ms Fs account in particular. Money came in 
from an account with which an relationship already existed, in that there had been payment interactions with it in the past. And so the scam payment did follow previous patterns of 
usage on the account.
Ive then considered whether the bank did all it could once it knew about the scam. Id expect 
to see attempts to recover the money and such attempts made quickly. Funds might be 
recovered if theyre still in the recipient account when such a scam is reported. 
Ive seen evidence which satisfies me Clydesdale acted quickly to recover the funds; it 
contacted the receiving bank within an hour. From that point it had to wait on the receiving 
bank to discover the fate of the funds. Unfortunately, and despite the banks quick action, the 
money had already been removed from the recipient account. And so there was nothing 
further Clydesdale could do, in terms of recovering the money.
Im sorry to further disappoint Ms F and her partner, but I believe Clydesdale has acted fairly 
and reasonably throughout, and so I make no award against it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint agiainst Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman