DRN-3109881
The complaint
Mr B complains, through a representative, that Home Retail Group Card Services Ltd (Home 
Retail), provided him with an Argos credit card that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr B took out an Argos branded credit card in-store in 2016. He was allocated a credit limit 
of £600. After using the card for a few months, his credit limit was increased to £720 in 
March 2017, and then to £870 in August 2017. He continued using the card, and paying at 
least the minimum required monthly payments, until the beginning of 2019 when arrears 
then started to accrue.  
Mr B complained to Home Retail, saying they failed to carry out sufficient checks regarding 
his suitability for the card account, and his ability to make repayments. He also complained 
that suitable checks werent carried out when Home Retail increased his credit limit. 
Home Retail disagreed, saying their credit searches at the time of his application showed he 
was suitable to be accepted for a card. And his limit increases were only applied after 
assessing how hed used the account, and other accounts in his name. And Home Retail 
highlight that Mr B made no contact with them at the time in question to say he was 
experiencing payment difficulties. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. However, our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint  he said he thought Home Retail had undertaken sufficient checks at 
the time of application, which showed Mr B had no defaults or arrears, so no reason for 
concern. And when increasing Mr Bs limits, Home Retail looked at how the account had 
been managed and carried out further credit checks, concluding these were reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome, commenting that hed experienced a lot of stress and 
depression because Home Retail kept increasing the limit when he couldnt afford it. So, the 
case has been passed to me for a further review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this is not 
what Mr B was hoping to hear, but Ill explain why. 
When deciding whether to accept Mr Bs credit application, Home Retail should have carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks, to ensure the credit was suitable and affordable 
for Mr B. This is outlined by the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority - in their 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The same considerations applied when increasing 
Mr Bs limits. 
Having looked at the information provided by Home Retail, and Mr B, Im satisfied Home 
Retail did carry out proportionate checks in relation to the amount being borrowed. Mr B 
confirmed his employment status when he applied, although Home Retail have confirmed 
their practice wasnt to verify this at the time  instead accepting what Mr B had told them at 
the time of applying. 
However, Home Retail used two different credit agencies to assess his suitability when they 
agreed to provide Mr B with his card account. There were no arrears recorded, or CCJs or 
account defaults. There was no sign of excessive credit commitments either, so no sign of 
Mr B being over-exposed with regard to his credit commitments, or that this account would 
cause Mr B to become over-exposed. And the amount of credit initially provided - £600 - is 
relatively modest. So, based on the information Ive seen, I think Home Retail did undertake 
proportionate checks at the time the application was made, and there was nothing in those 
checks that would have given Home Retail any cause for concern regarding Mr Bs suitability 
for the account, or ability to manage it.   
Turning now to the two increases. The first was in March 2017, where the limit was 
increased from £600 to £720. Home Retail say they referred to Mr Bs credit score at the 
time, and also looked at how hed used his account up to that point. Ive checked this too, 
and whilst its clear Mr Bs balance was reasonably close to the card limit in the months 
beforehand  increasing from £364 to £510 in March 2017 - I can also see that Mr B always 
paid more than the minimum payment each month, including over £290 in the month before 
the limit was increased. This suggests he was managing his account well at this time.
Looking at the second limit increase, again Home Retail say they checked Mr Bs credit 
score and looked at how hed been using his account. This time, there was one occasion a 
few months before the increase was applied when Mr B paid one day late  although he did 
then pay nearly £230 the next day against a minimum payment of about £7.00. And there 
was also one occasion a few months before the increase when Mr B exceeded his account 
limit - £738 against a limit of £720. 
Both these are indicators Mr B may have been struggling with his account at that time. 
However, against these, Mr B was repaying significantly more than his minimum payments 
in the six months before the second limit increase  his required minimum payments ranged 
between £0 and £7.00 each month (£0 because hed purchased some items on a buy now, 
pay later scheme), and yet hed made payments totalling over £800 in that period. Home 
Retail have also said Mr B had the option to opt-out of the increases if he wished. Ive seen 
the letters Home Retail sent to Mr B that clearly told him he could do this.
Mr Bs representative has pointed out some late payment/arrears notifications on his credit 
report from April 2019 onwards  saying these show the Argos card account increases were 
unaffordable. I disagree. These arrears occurred 18 months after Mr Bs credit limit 
increases, so I think are too far away to reasonably conclude the credit limit increases 
helped cause these subsequent arrears.    
So, having considered all the above, I dont think Home Retail did anything wrong when they 
increased Mr Bs limits. His credit file at the times didnt show anything that suggested hed 
struggle to maintain his account, and the way hed managed the account was generally 
extremely positive.
I appreciate Mr B started to experience significant financial problems in the year that 
followed  and Im truly sorry to hear of the effect these problems had on Mr B - but I dont 
think Home Retail would have been able to predict these problems from the information they 
had available at the time of the increases  and so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.  My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman