DRN-3164989
The complaint
Miss W complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declining her motor 
insurance claim and avoiding her policy, in respect of a stolen vehicle.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss W took out a motor insurance policy on a vehicle with RSA in September 2019, 
renewing the policy in September 2020. Unfortunately, the vehicle was stolen in May 2021 
during a burglary. Miss W contacted RSA to lodge a claim for the theft. It then came to light, 
when Miss W provided the Registration Documents for the vehicle, that she wasnt the 
registered owner or keeper of the vehicle, though her policy stated that she was. Given this, 
RSA told Miss W that they were declining her claim and avoiding her policy from the date of 
its renewal. RSA returned the premiums paid by Miss W. 
Miss W complained to RSA about their decision, but they didnt uphold it. In their final 
response they said shed been asked clear questions about the registered owner and keeper 
of the vehicle when she took out her policy and shed answered that she was (or intended to 
be). The policy documents were issued with Miss W listed as the registered owner and 
keeper, as were the policy documents issued at the renewal of the policy. RSA said that as 
Miss W wasnt the registered owner or keeper of the vehicle, they didnt consider her to have 
an insurable interest in the vehicle. As such, had they known this, they wouldnt have 
offered to cover the vehicle (or at least not offered cover at renewal). They confirmed their 
decision to decline her claim and avoid the policy from its renewal.
Miss W was unhappy at RSAs response and complained to this service. Her main concern 
was that RSA shouldnt have declined her claim. As a result, shed had to buy another 
vehicle and in doing so had gone into debt. She wanted RSA to settle her claim fully.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that while Miss W had told RSA 
when she took out the policy that she wasnt the owner of the vehicle. She was planning to 
purchase it from her boss but couldnt obtain finance. But her boss said she could continue 
to use and insure the vehicle. As the policy documents had Miss W listed as the owner and 
keeper of the vehicle  and she hadnt told RSA that this was incorrect - shed made a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy and at its renewal. Based on this, the 
investigator concluded RSA had acted fairly in declining her claim and avoiding her policy.
Miss W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In asking for a review Miss W said it was a genuine oversight on her part not 
to have noticed the error in the policy documents about her being the registered owner and 
keeper of the vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Miss W.
The key issue here is whether RSA acted fairly in declining Miss Ws claim and avoiding her 
policy. RSAs view is that Miss W gave incorrect information when she took out the policy 
and at its renewal (that she was the registered owner and keeper of the vehicle, when in fact 
it was her boss). Miss W maintains it was a genuine oversight on her part that she didnt 
notice the policy documents listed her as the registered owner and keeper, and that shes 
been unfairly penalised as a result of her oversight.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA think Miss W failed to take reasonable care when she didnt notify them that she wasnt 
the registered owner and keeper of the vehicle. Ive considered the circumstances and 
evidence relating to Miss W not notifying RSA that she wasnt the registered owner or 
keeper. I think several points are relevant. First, Ive considered the terms and conditions of 
Miss Ws policy, specifically those that relate to information provided by the policyholder. The 
Schedule of Insurance issued both at the time of the policy being taken out and its 
subsequent renewal states, under the heading IMPORTANT NOTES:
This Schedule is a record of the information provided to us. Please check it is 
correct and keep this document in a safe place. You should tell us if any of the 
information on the Schedule changes. Not doing so may invalidate the insurance, or 
result in claims being rejected or reduced. We may reassess your cover, terms and 
premiums when we are told about changes in your circumstances.
If you knowingly provide us with false information to influence our assessment of any 
of the following:
your eligibility for this policy
Ive noted that the Schedule when the policy was taken out states, for both the Owner of 
vehicle and Registered keeper headings, the answer is Policyholder (Miss W). For the 
heading Owned car for the answer is Not bought yet, or <6 months. This reflects the 
intention of Miss W when she took out the policy to buy the vehicle. This didnt happen. The 
Schedule at the policy renewal states the same answer of Policyholder for the first two 
headings, whereas the answer to the third question is listed as 12 months. That reflects 
what would have been the case had Miss W bought the car as she had intended. 
Miss W says that she didnt make any amendment to the answer for the third question. While 
thats true, I dont think its relevant as it simply rolls forward the answer given to the question 
when the policy was taken out.
I accept that Miss Ws intention when she took out the policy was that she would buy the 
vehicle (and so become the registered owner and keeper). But this didnt happen. At that point I think the wording of the Schedule above should have led Miss W to tell RSA that she 
hadnt carried through with the purchase of the vehicle, so she wasnt the registered owner 
or keeper. That should also have been the case at the policys renewal. While I accept it may 
have been a genuine oversight on Miss Ws part in not telling RSA, Ive concluded that Mrs 
B didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented the circumstances when not telling RSA 
that she hadnt completed the purchase of the vehicle.
RSA say she didnt have an insurable interest in the vehicle and, had they known, they 
wouldnt have offered cover. Ive also seen the evidence that RSA wouldnt, under its own 
underwriting guidelines, have offered to cover the vehicle if Miss W wasnt the registered 
owner or keeper. That means Im satisfied Miss Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
As I accept that Miss W may have made a genuine oversight, I think her misrepresentation 
was careless (rather than deliberate or reckless). 
As Im satisfied Miss Ws misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions RSA can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that when theres a careless 
misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have offered the 
cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the relevant period of the cover. 
As Ive noted, had RSA been informed that Miss W wasnt the registered owner or keeper 
then it wouldnt have provided cover at all. Given this, then Ive concluded that RSA acted 
fairly, in accordance with CIDRA, in avoiding the policy (from the date of policy renewal) but 
returning the premiums. As such, Ive also concluded that RSA acted fairly in declining Miss 
Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman