DRN-3915393
The complaint
Mrs S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her £250 that she withdrew from 
a cash machine but never received.
What happened
In August 2022 on the bank holiday Mrs S went to a cash machine by a supermarket to 
withdraw cash. She made four withdrawals of £250 but she believes during one transaction 
the cash was never dispensed. Mrs S believed the transaction timed out and the money was 
taken back into the cash machine. Despite waiting, Mrs S says she didnt get her cash.
Barclays debited Mrs Ss account £1,000 for four withdrawals. She complained shed not 
received some of the money. Barclays queried what had happened with the cash machine 
owner. They received evidence the cash machine had balanced and thered been no 
reported errors. They believed this meant Mrs S had received her money so would not 
refund her.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs S brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our 
investigator believed Barclays evidence that it was most likely the money had been 
dispensed. She wasnt going to ask Barclays to do anything further.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied and has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mrs S have told us. This includes the detailed transaction roll for the 
cash withdrawal Mrs S was making as well as the transactions both before and after hers.
This evidence clearly shows the number of £10 and £20 notes within the cash machine 
before and after Mrs Ss transactions. It shows the timing of all the transactions and shows 
these are numbered consecutively. 
In fact the transaction that Mrs S made at 17:15 shows she received 12 £20 notes and one 
£10 note which were presented and taken at 17:16:10. This matches the transactions before 
and after Mrs S when Mrs S was also using the cash machine to withdraw £250 (with a 
different card) without any error registering on the cash machine.
The number of notes counts down and the audit trail shows no record of more money being 
rejected at the end of this trail of transactions than at the beginning.
After understanding the detail of what Mrs S was doing at the cash machine that day, I 
asked Barclays for any additional evidence they could provide about the other cash machine 
withdrawals being made by Mrs S. Ive not received anything. Im not particularly surprised 
by this because of the time that has passed since the withdrawals.
I appreciate Mrs Ss testimony that this isnt what happened and she didnt receive £250 she 
requested. However Ive seen nothing which means I cant rely to put more weight on the 
existing written evidence given to us by Barclays.
On balance I believe cash was dispensed as requested. Im not going to ask Barclays do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman