DRN-3561977
The complaint
This complaints about two mortgages that Mrs and Mr R have held with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC over time. The essence of the complaint is that Barclays got them mixed up when they 
were trying to sell one of the properties, and issued a redemption statement for a debt they 
werent due to pay at that point. At the highest level, the impact of this was two-fold: briefly
by revealing the existence of the second mortgage to Mrs and Mr Rs solicitors, Barclays 
was guilty of a data protection breach; and
Mrs and Mr R had to abort a holiday to put things right, and their solicitor had to spend 
more time on the transaction than was necessary.
Mrs and Mr R are seeking reimbursement of their abortive holiday costs and the additional 
solicitors fees, plus substantial compensation for the stress they experienced.
 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr R and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr Rs first mortgage was on a property Ill refer to as BW; the mortgage was 
originally with a lender Ill refer to as W, which was acquired by Barclays in 2000. They took 
the mortgage out in 1983 and repaid it in 2008 bar £1, to take advantage of the banks 
Deedstore facility. Thats an arrangement under which, typically, a mortgage account 
remains live, albeit dormant, with an interest-free nominal balance of £1, and the legal 
charge remains in place at HM Land Registry.
In 2018, Mrs and Mr R took out the second mortgage, to buy a property Ill refer to as SG. In 
2021, they decided to sell BW; however, when their solicitor contacted Barclays for the 
redemption statement for the mortgage on BW (which should simply have been £1) the bank 
issued a redemption statement for the mortgage on SG, which was for around £79,000. 
Mrs and Mr R were on holiday at the time, and after several days of trying to deal with the 
situation by phone calls and messages to and from their solicitor and their home branch of 
Barclays, they abandoned the holiday. The confusion was eventually resolved, but only just 
in time to save the sale of BW on the actual completion date. Once the sale had gone 
through, the charge on BW was released.
Mrs and Mr R each complained separately to Barclays; the bank accepted it had got things 
wrong. Barclays offered Mrs R £350 compensation and Mr R £200 compensation; it also 
said it would agree to cover additional solicitors costs put at £440, on production of an 
itemised invoice evidencing the extra work involved in putting its mistake right. It wasnt 
prepared to compensate Mrs and Mr R for the aborted holiday, believing it had been their 
choice to cut it short. Its my understanding that Mr R accepted the offer of £200 he received 
but Mrs R didnt accept the £350 she was offered.
When the case came to us, we merged the complaints into one, as our rules require us to 
do. The investigator who considered the complaint thought Barclays combined response 
was fair; he thought the aggregate compensation of £550 was fair in the circumstances, and 
that it was reasonable of Barclays to want to see evidence of the extra solicitors costs 
before paying them. Mrs and Mr R have asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Theres one other observation I would make before I set out my findings. In his 
communication with Mrs and Mr R, the investigator has referred more than once to seeking 
guidance from an ombudsman when arriving at his conclusions. So that theres no 
ambiguity, that was a different ombudsman from me. My conclusions are entirely my own.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point I need to make is that a newspaper article from 2011 Mrs and Mr R have cited 
in their evidence has no bearing out the outcome of this complaint. It reports on matters that 
took place more than ten years before the events Im dealing with. I appreciate Mrs and Mr R 
think the shortcomings reported in the article remain unresolved, and their experience flows 
from that. But having no regulatory remit means that I deal with the immediate complaint 
rather than any putative link it may or may not have to the past.
The case itself is simpler to decide than it might appear at first glance. Thats because I dont 
have to decide fault. Barclays has admitted to issuing a redemption statement for the 
mortgage on SG instead of the one on BW. Barclays has recognised that in doing that, it 
was guilty of a data breach because it revealed the existence of the mortgage on SG to the 
solicitor dealing with the sale of BW. Barclays has notified the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) of what happened. It will be for the ICO to decide if Barclays should face 
sanction for the breach itself. 
What I do have to decide is the impact on Mrs and Mr R, and whether the redress it has 
offered them is fair, or whether there is more Barclays needs to do to put things right for 
them.
Ill deal first with the claim for out-of-pocket expenses. There are two strands to that; the 
abortive holiday costs and extra solicitors fees. Starting with the letter, Barclays has already 
done exactly what I would expect it to do; that is, agree to cover the extra solicitors fees on production of evidence of the additional work that was necessary as a result of its error. Very 
simply, Mrs and Mr R have not produced that; all theyve provided is the solicitors total bill. I 
cant say they havent had ample opportunity to present the evidenced thats needed; 
Barclays first asked for it in October 2021. 
In the event Mrs and Mr R were to present itemised evidence of the extra work their solicitor 
carried out due to Barclays error, Id expect Barclays to keep its word and reimburse them. 
As things stand, I cant fairly order Barclays to reimburse them in this final decision.
As for the abortive holiday costs, I agree that it was Mrs and Mr Rs choice to end their 
holiday early. I appreciate that they felt they had to do that to deal with the situation, but it 
was nonetheless their choice. Resolving things may have been harder away from home, but 
it wouldnt have been impossible. Aside from that, a business can only fairly be held 
responsible for costs that are a reasonably foreseeable consequence of its mistake. When it 
issued the wrong redemption statement, Barclays could not reasonably have known 
Mrs and Mr R were even on holiday, far less foreseen theyd come home. That brings me to 
compensation for time, trouble and upset.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mrs and Mr R. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house sale transaction. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I think that the aggregate compensation of £550 
already offered is fair compensation for the impact of what Barclays actually got wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs R to decide if she 
wants to accept the settlement offer Barclays made to her. If she does, she can contact 
Barclays directly.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman