DRN-3244867
The complaint
Miss L complains Skyfire Insurance Company Limited have unfairly turned down a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
Miss L took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire through a price comparison site in 
May 2019 with Social, Domestic and Pleasure usage  which renewed in May 2020 for 
another year. 
In February 2021 she was unfortunately involved in an accident where she drove into a 
neighbours car on her way home from work.
Skyfire said shed answered the question they asked about usage of the car incorrectly  as 
she was commuting but didnt have commuting cover. 
Miss L complained, saying she didnt know commuting cover wasnt included as standard, as 
itd been included previously with other policies she had. She also felt no questions had 
been asked about taking out commuting cover. 
Skyfire reiterated Miss L didnt have commuting cover, so wouldnt meet the claim. They also 
said theyd looked at her concerns regarding the questions she was asked and were 
confident the website did ask questions about commuting.
Unhappy with this Miss L asked us to look into things. She also explained shed since 
become aware of guidance issued by an insurance trade body, which meant in certain 
circumstances people would be covered for commuting, without having to tell their insurer  
due to the pandemic. Miss L said this guidance applied to her. 
As part of our process we asked Skyfire for their version of events. They said theyd 
contacted Miss L on 29 October 2019 about not having commuting cover on her policy, 
explaining in this if she was commuting then she wouldnt be covered for it. And, following 
her policy renewal on 10 May 2020, was contacted again on 24 May 2020 asking if she 
needed commuting cover. Skyfire say no reply was received to either of these contacts.
Our of our Investigators looked into things. Overall, she felt Skyfire should meet the claim, 
and because the other partys insurer had been getting in touch demanding payment, this 
had caused stress to Miss L that otherwise wouldnt have happened  so awarded £150 
compensation as well.
Skyfire felt Miss L had given different accounts of whatd happened and going back to the 
first call felt shed said commuting was part of her normal routine with no changes due to 
COVID-19. They said it was only after her claim had been turned down, that Miss L then 
gave different explanations.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire hasnt set it out in these terms, but they think Miss L failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when she selected Social, Domestic and Pleasure  but 
didnt choose commuting cover.
Ive looked at the question asked when Miss L first took out her policy. This shows options 
Social only, Social & commuting, Business use by you and More. Ive seen Miss Ls 
cover was originally taken out on just Social only. And, when she renewed her policy, 
Miss L again had to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I can see the 
information given to her when taking out the policy encouraged her to check all the 
information was correct.
When Miss L was asked about the accident, she said she was travelling home from work. 
She was asked if this was her usual routine  to which she said yes. And Skyfires agent 
asked her if this was an exception due to Covid  to which she said no. In addition, when 
complaining, Miss L said she understood commuting was covered under her policy  
suggesting it was something she potentially was doing and hadnt realised she didnt have 
the appropriate cover.
On balance, it seems likely Miss L was commuting, but hadnt selected commuting cover. 
That means I think shes failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So, 
I now need to decide if this was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Skyfire have said theyd have charged Miss L an additional premium of £8.90 and have 
provided evidence of this. This means Im satisfied Miss Ls misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one. Next, I need to think about whether this was a careless, or deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation. Miss L has said previous policies have included commuting 
cover as standard, and when she was asked on the phone about what she used the car for 
she didnt hesitate in explaining shed used it for work. Because of that, I think Miss Ls misrepresentation was a careless one. As Im satisfied 
Miss Ls misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions Skyfire 
can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Skyfire have said they wont meet Miss Ls claim. But that remedy is only available if the 
misrepresentation was a deliberate or reckless one  which this isnt. CIDRA allows Skyfire 
to pay a proportion of the claim in Miss Ls scenario, and thats what I think is fair in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Skyfire have shown the total premium including commuting would have been £398.85  and 
Miss L paid £389.95 of that  or 97.77% of the total premium. So, Skyfire should cover 
97.77% of any costs arising from this claim, with Miss L needing to meet the rest.
I can see the other party has started proceedings against Miss L about the claim  and had 
Skyfire dealt with the claim initially theyd have handled this, so I think they should deal with 
the proceedings accordingly. I also think they should cover, in full, any costs associated with 
those legal proceedings  as they wouldnt have arisen if Skyfire had handled things 
correctly.
Overall then, I dont think Skyfire assessed Miss Ls claim properly when she made it. So, I 
think they should proportionally meet the claim as explained above (subject to any remaining 
policy terms) and pay £150 compensation as a result of the stress shes been caused 
because they havent dealt with her claim correctly, and consequently the proceedings the 
other party has instigated.
Ive noted Miss Ls comments about the industry trade guidance shes referred to that says 
in certain circumstances people would be covered for commuting without telling their insurer. 
But that guidance only applies if the policyholder wasnt commuting prior to the start of the 
pandemic  and based on my findings above I think Miss L likely was. So, I dont think this 
applies to her circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss L got in touch and said she didnt think she needed to add anything further.
Skyfire didnt reply by the deadline.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss L didnt add anything further, and Skyfire didnt reply, Ive seen no reason to depart 
from my initial conclusions.
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and require Skyfire to:
Cover 97.77% of the claims costs (subject to any remaining policy terms)
Pay Miss L £150 compensation
Deal with the legal proceedings resulting from this incident on behalf of Miss L  as 
well as any costs associated with this legal action in full  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right 
section above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman