DRN-3283177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down their business 
interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. They claimed on their 
policy after their business was impacted in November 2020 by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim, as while the policy covered a specified list of 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases on the list. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. They 
referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case 
as a reason why their claim should be paid. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
she didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of their claim. 
Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs Hs business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim. While Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs policy in its 
entirety, in this decision Ive focussed on the parts which appear most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover for:
The amount of loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the 
Business carried on by You at the Premises in consequence of any Damage 
occurring at the Premises to any property used by You at the Premises for the 
purposes of the Business.
 
The policy defines damage as:
Loss destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded
For this to provide cover for Mr and Mrs Hs claim the interruption to their business would 
need to be as a result of loss, destruction or damage to property used by them at their 
business premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to 
property used by Mr and Mrs H at their business premises so this doesnt cover their claim. 
Prevention of access and loss of attraction
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of Damage to 
property within 1 kilometre of the Premises:
(a) which prevents or hinders the use of or prevents access to the Premises
I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr and Mrs Hs business interruption was due 
to damage to property within 1 kilometre of their business premises. So, even if there 
were cases of Covid-19 within 1 kilometre of their premises, this doesnt provide cover. 
Compulsory closure
This extension covers:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from:
(a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the 
Premises
Notifiable human infectious or contagious disease is in bold to indicate that it has a 
specific definition in the policy. The policy says the definition is:
Those diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) 
Regulations, 1988, namely:
The policy then sets out a list of diseases which are covered. Underneath the list it 
says that no other disease will be added without Coveas written consent. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr and Mrs Hs policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge, in fact it says that no new diseases will be added without written consent. So, 
I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore 
this doesnt provide cover for Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
Mr and Mrs H have referred to the Supreme Court judgment but whether a claim is paid still 
depends on the terms and conditions of the policy. And is this case the judgement doesnt 
impact the outcome of their claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome that Mr and Mrs H were hoping for but, having considered the matter very carefully, I cant fairly require Covea to pay their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman