DRN-2441475
The complaint
Miss P complains about the compensation that Shawbrook Bank Limited has paid her for 
issues that she had with replacement doors and windows that she paid for using a fixed sum 
loan agreement.
What happened
Miss P used a fixed sum loan agreement that she electronically signed in February 2019 to 
pay £11,896 for some replacement doors and windows. Shawbrook says that the doors and 
windows were installed in October 2019 and that the supplier has since stopped trading. 
There were some issues with the installation and Miss P complained to Shawbrook and to 
this service.
Shawbrook arranged for the work to be inspected by an independent expert who confirmed 
that there were some issues and quoted a repair cost of £1,128. Shawbrook authorised the 
repair work which was undertaken in January 2020 at its cost and it also paid £790 to Miss P 
to reimburse her for the cost of repairs to some internal wall damage.
Our investigator said that Shawbrook had put Miss P back into the position she should have 
been in had there not been a breach of contract and the installation was completed 
satisfactorily by the supplier. But he also said that Miss P should be entitled to a partial 
refund due to the poor installation and he recommended that Shawbrook should refund £250 
to her.
Shawbrook has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
Miss P has been put back in the position she would have been in had the issue not occurred 
by covering the costs of remedial works and it doesnt feel that is should be liable to provide 
a partial refund for the initial installation issues.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss P 
and to Shawbrook on 7 October 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain circumstances, Shawbrook, as the provider of credit to Miss P, is equally 
liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. To be able to uphold Miss Ps complaint about Shawbrook, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that Shawbrooks response to her claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a breach of contract when the 
replacement doors and windows were installed. The supplier has stopped trading 
and Shawbrook arranged for the works to be inspected by an independent expert. 
The inspection report confirmed that there were issues with the installation and 
Shawbrook paid for those issues to be remedied. It also reimbursed Miss P for the 
additional remedial costs that shed incurred.
Miss P signed a completion note to confirm that she was happy with the remedial 
work and I consider that she was put back into the position in which she would have 
been if there hadnt been a breach of contract. I consider that Shawbrooks response 
to her complaint was fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
No partial refund of the cost of the installation would have been made to Miss P if the 
contract had been properly fulfilled and Im not persuaded that it would now be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Shawbrook, as the provider of the credit, to pay to 
Miss P the £250 that was recommended by the investigator because of the issues 
with the installation.
I sympathise with Miss P for the issues that shes had to deal with but shes been put 
into the position in which she would have been if the replacement doors and windows 
had been properly installed. I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Shawbrook to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action 
in response to her complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Miss P or Shawbrook, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Shawbrook has accepted my provisional 
decision but Miss P says Shawbrook knew that the company was going into administration 
when she contacted it with a date for it to do the repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Even if 
Shawbrook knew that the company was going into administration, I consider that its 
response to Miss Ps complaint was fair and reasonable - it paid for the issues identified in 
the inspection report to be remedied and it reimbursed Miss P for the additional remedial 
costs that shed incurred. So I consider that shes been put into the position in which she 
would have been if the replacement doors and windows had been properly installed. 
For these reasons, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require Shawbrook to pay Miss P any compensation (other than the amounts that 
its already paid to her) or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman