DRN-2399450
The complaint
Mrs G complains Santander UK Plc will not refund a disputed transaction.  She also 
complains about the poor service she received when she complained.  Mrs G is helped in 
her complaint by her representative  but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as if made 
by her directly.
Santander say the transaction was authorised.
 
What happened
Mrs G holds an account with Santander and her nephew is a power of attorney on that 
account.  In order to make any withdrawals from the account, Mrs G says a passbook is 
required.  She says the last transaction she made was in 2017.
But when she received her yearly statement for the account towards the end of 2019, Mrs G 
noticed a £400 withdrawal made on 9th July 2018.  She cross checked this against her 
passbook and could see no record of this  so she contacted Santander to lodge a 
complaint.
Santander said it could not refund the money to her.  It confirmed the withdrawal would have 
needed her passbook, but it couldnt explain why there was no record of it.  In a call made to 
Mrs G in November 2019, the fraud handler suggested Santander just may not have 
recorded it when Mrs G made the withdrawal.  When Mrs G persisted during this call, she 
was then told the transaction was over 13 months old and so could not be refunded and 
when she continued to persist, the call was ultimately terminated.  The suggestion was that 
as the passbook was still in Mrs Gs possession, the withdrawal was authorised.
Mrs G then brought her complaint to this service. 
In regard to the delay in reporting the transaction, Mrs G said she had not received her 
2017-2018 yearly statement, so this was the first opportunity she had to look through the 
statement.
In its submissions to us, Santander said the withdrawal was made using a card and PIN 
belonging to Mrs Gs nephew  who held a power of attorney on the account  and not the 
passbook as it had originally suggested.  It said that Mrs Gs account would show on the 
nephews profile when he came into branch.  It also said, it was possible that he may have 
meant to have withdrawn money from his own account but instead instructed the cashier to 
take it from his aunts account. 
When our investigator looked into matters, she didnt think she could ask Santander to 
refund this money to Mrs G, but she did think it should pay her £100 for wrongly suggesting 
the money had been withdrawn using her passbook.  She also thought it was more than 
likely that the previous account statements had been sent by Santander.
Santander agreed to this, but Mrs G did not. She asked that an ombudsman consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I think Santander may be right in one of the suggestions it makes  and I think its likely that 
Mrs Gs nephew went into branch to make a withdrawal and was given money from Mrs Gs 
account rather than his.   I cant say for sure whos error this was  but he had authority to 
make the withdrawal and so it must be authorised.
What that means for Mrs Gs complaint is that the payment was authorised and so I wont be 
asking Santander to refund the money.  If, as I suggested, Mrs Gs nephew made the 
withdrawal mistakenly, then that is a matter between the two of them.
Ive also considered Mrs Gs submissions that she had not received a previous statement.  I 
think, on balance, they had been sent and I cant explain why they were not received.  
Turning then to the customer service aspect of the complaint.  Ive listened to the calls 
Santander had with Mrs G and I think it could have done a lot better  especially in relation 
to the call on 1st November 2019.
It seems to me that no allowance was made for Mrs G being homebound and the reason 
why she needed a power of attorney for her account.  And I am certain that the advice given 
to her before the call was abruptly ended was incorrect.
For those reasons, I am increasing the award for distress and inconvenience to £250 in total.  
I think the suggestion from the investigator fell short of what I would deem to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
 
Putting things right
 Santander UK Plc must pay Mrs G £250 for the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered in pursuing this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay the 
award as suggested.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman