DRN-1738713
 
The complaint
Mr I says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr I has said Satsuma didnt carry out sufficient credit checks. He was already 
struggling to keep up with his then current outgoings and he suffered because of the lending. 
                           
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mr I between December 
2015 and December 2017. Mr Is borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 11/12/2015 15/01/2016 47 (weekly) £500.00 £105.85
Break
2 27/02/2017 28/07/2017 5 £650.00 £228.80
3 11/12/2017 26/03/2018 3 £200.00   £98.40
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had carried 
out before lending to him were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt have 
given it any cause to reconsider giving Mr I the loans. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said he was a low income at the time and couldnt afford the lending. 
He says Satsuma took advantage of his dire circumstances. 
Our adjudicator further explained how and what we assess when considering this type of 
complaint and that the interest charges were within the regulators limits at that time. Mr I 
asked for his complaint to be reconsidered.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that I agree there were two chains of lending. There was a break of 13 
months between loans one and two. I think this was a sufficient enough amount of time for 
Satsuma to have reasonably concluded that Mr I had overcome whatever the financial 
circumstances were that caused him to take this type of short-term lending in the first 
instance. A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we 
would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the 
length of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included information about Mr Is income and expenditure to establish whether the loans were affordable for him. It also included a credit risk assessment and fraud and anti-
money laundering checks. 
For the first loan Mr Is income was recorded as being £1,516.66 per month. His expenditure 
was £100 a month to which Satsuma added a safeguard buffer amount of £458.82 per 
month. So, this would leave Mr I with a disposable monthly income of £851.99 after taking 
account of the monthly loan repayment. On this basis, I dont think the loan looks 
unaffordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
For loan two, Mr Is monthly income was £1,299.99 and expenditure as being £400. Again, 
Satsuma added a buffer of £154.33 which after taking account of the loan repayment would 
leave Mr I with a disposable income each month of £416.86. So again, I think the loan looks 
affordable. 
And for loan three, Mr Is income was £1,700, expenditure £500 to which Satsuma added a 
£602.90. After taking account of the monthly loan repayment this left Mr I with £499.50 per 
monthly. So, I think all of the lending looked affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. And
 I dont think there was anything in the information that Mr I provided to Satsuma which 
would have caused it to be concerned that he was having problems managing his finances.
Its possible that Mr Is financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if his 
circumstances were different Mr Is actual financial position may well have been more 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  
had been obtained. But Satsuma has given us a copy of Mr Is credit report it obtained at the 
time of the lending and theres no evidence of bankruptcy, county court judgments or other 
poor credit reports that would have caused it to look further into Mr Is financial situation. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the lending relationship  I 
dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mr I. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr I for evidence of his income and outgoings which 
Satsuma could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills, as examples. 
I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by, Satsuma before it 
lent to Mr I. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led Satsuma to 
conclude that it should decline Mr Is applications for the loans. And there isnt anything to 
have prompted it to ask for more information about Mr I. So, I dont think Satsuma was 
wrong to have provided these loans, based sold on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Satsuma did for these loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr I wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate my 
conclusion to Mr Is complaint will be a disappointment to him, but I hope I have managed to 
explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Is complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman