DRN-2478620
The complaint
Mr H complains that PSA Finance UK Limited unreasonably delayed the repayment of a 
direct debit that had been taken after a credit agreement had been settled.
What happened.
In March 2020 Mr H entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement with PSA for a car. 
Payments were made monthly and via direct debit.
Around three months later, in June 2020, Mr H asked PSA about settling the agreement 
early. He sent PSA a cheque for the full outstanding amount which arrived one week before 
his next direct debit payment was due.
PSA said that although it received the cheque on the date expected by Mr H, due to its 
internal processes there was a short delay of two days before it was presented to the bank. 
The cheque therefore cleared one day before the date of the direct debit. PSA said that as it 
makes a request to a consumers bank around one week before a direct debit payment is 
due for payment, there wasnt time to cancel the request. The direct debit was taken from Mr 
Hs bank account.
PSA refunded the overpayment to Mr H 15 days later. Mr H complained to PSA about the 
delay in it making the reimbursement. He said it was unreasonable PSA had his money for 
15 days and that he should be compensated for this.
PSA didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that the direct debit had been taken because the 
cheque had cleared too late to stop the request for payment being sent to Mr Hs bank. PSA 
said that it hadnt immediately returned the amount debited because it doesnt receive an 
immediate response from the bank following a payment request and it can take up to seven 
days for the bank to report any issue with a direct debit. And if it had made a repayment too 
soon then this could have led to potential problems with an account. PSA said it expects to 
raise refunds within 10 working days and had met this expectation. It apologised for any 
inconvenience caused by its processes.
Mr H disagreed with PSAs reasoning and complained to this service. He said he didnt 
accept the refund had been made in accordance with the direct debit/BACS protocol.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He said that although 
he understood that waiting 15 days for a refund had been frustrating, he didnt think PSA had 
acted unfairly and the time taken to reimburse Mr H had been reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr H disagrees with our investigators view. He said the timeline provided by PSA didnt 
adhere to the terms and conditions of the agreement and the rules of the direct debit 
guarantee.
As Mr H disagree with the view of our investigator the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr H settled his account with PSA in full which meant that when the 
direct debit payment was taken from Mr Hs bank account in June 2020 there was an 
overpayment. Ive seen Mr H was concerned that PSA should have presented his cheque 
sooner and then stopped the direct debit before it was taken but I dont think PSA acted 
unreasonably in its actions. 
PSA has provided an explanation about its internal processes and the two-day delay in 
presenting Mr Hs cheque. I dont think a delay of this length would have been unusual or 
unfair when considering this was a large business dealing with correspondence. PSA has 
also explained how it makes its requests to banks for direct debit payments, and that such 
requests can be up to seven days before the payment is due. It also says once a request is 
made then it cant be cancelled. While I appreciate Mr H doesnt accept the timings provided 
by PSA, I dont have any evidence that PSA didnt follow the processes it has set out. And 
as the cheque cleared only the day before the direct debit was taken, I think its a fair to 
accept that by then it would be too late for the direct debit request to have been cancelled.
Mr H feels strongly that PSA took too long in arranging the reimbursement and that as it had 
his money for a period of 15 days its fair he is paid compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him by not having access to his money. Mr H says he is relying on the direct debit 
guarantee which sets out that if there is an error in a direct debit then the consumer is 
entitled to an immediate refund. He says that this guarantee is part of the terms and 
conditions of the agreement he had with PSA.
Looking at the conditional sale agreement there is a request that payments under the 
agreement are made by direct debit. The agreement says that if payments are made by any 
other method then charges may be incurred. Ive also seen that Mr H completed a direct 
debit mandate at the same time he signed the conditional sale agreement. 
Here its accepted that Mr H didnt owe the amount debited from his account to PSA and that 
his payment by way of direct debit was covered by the direct debt guarantee scheme. 
However, this guarantee, as explained in the schemes website and in the mandate signed 
by Mr H is that where an error is made when taking a direct debit then the customer is 
entitled to an immediate refund from their bank. So, it isnt PSA who is bound by this 
guarantee to ensure that it makes an immediate reimbursement in these circumstances to 
Mr H. Under the scheme the bank is indemnified to be repaid by PSA, so PSA pays the bank 
not Mr H. 
Ive seen that PSA reimbursed Mr H within 10 working days and one of the reasons it took 
this period of time was to ensure there had been no difficulty with the direct debit being 
covered. Ive seen that the bank wont instantaneously inform a business if a payment has or 
hasnt been covered and even a failed payment will be credited to a business account and 
then have to be reversed later. So, I dont think leaving any refund for a few days is unfair in 
and looking at the overall length of time to taken to process Mr Hs refund I cant reasonably 
say that PSA acted unfairly. 
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman