DRN-3036305
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service that he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) following his request for a payment holiday, including that his business relationship 
was transferred by RBS to a Specialist Relationship Manager (SRM). 
What happened
Mr W runs a guest house and has a longstanding business and personal relationship with 
RBS, which included an overdraft and three loans.
In 2014, Mr W approached RBS with a view to restructuring his borrowing with them. 
However, the restructuring offered by RBS involved interest rates that were notably higher 
than the interest rates on the existing borrowing, and so Mr W elected to maintain the 
existing loans and overdraft facility.
In 2015, Mr W asked RBS for a repayment holiday. RBS assessed the financial position of 
Mr W and his business at that time and became concerned about Mr Ws ability to continue 
to service both his personal and the guest houses borrowing. Because of this, RBS declined 
Mr Ws request for a repayment holiday and advised Mr W that they were moving the 
management of his relationship to an SRM.
Mr W wasnt happy and raised a complaint about how RBS managed his relationship during 
this period and felt that RBS had forced the premature settlement of the loans by placing 
deadlines on the sales of residential property he held. Mr W was also unhappy that RBS 
wouldnt offer him competitive loan refinancing rates, which he felt effectively forced him 
away from RBS and to seek refinancing from other providers. Mr W also felt that hed been 
bullied by RBS, and that RBS had used intimidating and coercive tactics.
Additionally, Mr W also complained that RBS had been taking Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI) premiums which he felt had depleted his resources unfairly. RBS has reimbursed 
approximately £17,000 of PPI premiums to Mr W, but Mr W believes that he has suffered a 
detriment by not having had these monies available to him at the time that RBS were forcing 
repayment of the loans.
RBS looked at Mr Ws complaint. They felt that the concerns that they had regarding Mr Ws 
continuing ability to service the loan facilities had been legitimate, and they didnt feel that 
theyd done anything wrong by declining the repayment holiday or by transferring Mr Ws 
relationship to an SRM. Additionally, they noted that Mr W had sought refinancing from 
another provider on his own, and without any pressure to do so from RBS. So, they didnt 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that RBS had acted 
unfairly towards Mr W in how they managed his relationship, and they didnt feel that the 
taking of the subsequently refunded PPI premiums by RBS could be reasonably said to have 
caused any significant impact in regard to how events ultimately transpired. So, they also 
didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr W may have been disappointed with the options for refinancing that 
RBS presented in 2014, all of which involved significantly higher rates of interest than the 
rates of interest on the existing borrowing facilities held at that time. I can also appreciate 
how this disappointment may have been compounded when RBS later declined Mr Ws 
request for a repayment holiday and then transferred the ongoing relationship to the SRM.
But its difficult for me to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and I 
say this because it seems that RBS made commercial decisions that they were entitled to 
make. For instance, RBS were under no obligation to offer refinancing terms to Mr W that 
matched or were more favourable than the terms of the existing borrowing. And I havent 
seen anything that gives me cause to suspect that RBS did anything than offer Mr W 
refinancing options that were in line with their appetite for risk at that time.
Furthermore, RBS were under no obligation to offer Mr W a repayment holiday when he 
applied for one. And it seems reasonable to me, that following their assessment of the 
information that Mr W provided to RBS at the time that the was applying for a repayment 
holiday, for RBS to have had concerns about Mr Ws ability to continue to service the 
existing loan facilities such that a transfer of the relationship to the SRM was warranted.
Im aware that Mr W may disagree with this, especially given that none of the existing 
borrowing was in arrears at that time. But they key point here is that RBS are entitled to have 
concerns and to take action as a result of those concerns. 
Additionally, it doesnt appear to have been the case that RBS arrived at their position 
arbitrarily, but rather that they did so following an assessment of the information provided to 
them by Mr W at the time of the repayment holiday request. And while Mr W may not agree 
with the content of RBSs assessment, his disagreement doesnt invalidate RBSs right to 
make such an assessment, or to make resultant commercial decisions because of it.
Mr W also intimates that by not offering competitive refinancing terms or the repayment 
holiday that was requested, that RBS were effectively forcing him to another provider. I find it 
difficult to draw the same conclusion as Mr W here, especially as I havent seen anything to 
suggest that RBS werent happy to allow the existing borrowings to run to the end of the 
agreed terms. Indeed, the only conclusion that feel I can draw from the information available 
to me is that Mr W arranged refinancing with an alternative provider on his own impetus, 
having elected to do so rather than to maintain the existing borrowing arrangements with 
RBS and having found the refinancing arrangements offered by RBS to be unpalatable.
Furthermore, while I acknowledge that I wasnt present at any face to face meetings or on 
any telephone calls between Mr W and RBS, having reviewed all the documentary 
information available to me, I havent found anything to corroborate Mr Ws claims that RBS 
placed deadlines on the sale of Mr Ws residential property so as to force the premature 
settlement of the exiting borrowing, or that RBS acted in an intimidating or bullying manner 
towards Mr W. Indeed, it appears evident that RBS attempted to communicate clearly with 
Mr W in regard to the actions that they were taking, which is what this service would expect.Finally, Im aware that Mr W feel that by taking the PPI premiums that they did, RBS 
unnecessarily exacerbated his difficult financial position to an extent such that if the PPI 
premiums hadnt been taken, Mr W feels that he may have been able to negotiate that 
difficult period more favourably.
I can appreciate Mr Ws position here, to a degree. But I feel that its very difficult, even with 
the benefit of hindsight, to say with any degree of certainty that Mr W would have been able 
to take a course of action that he wasnt able to take at that time, had the PPI premium 
money been available to him.
Because of this, Im not convinced that its appropriate to consider that RBS should 
reimburse Mr W for any form of consequential loss here, and one reason I say this is 
because I find it difficult to quantify what form such potential consequential loss might have 
taken. As such, Im satisfied that the appropriate corrective action has already been 
undertaken by RBS here  the reimbursement of the PPI premiums to Mr W  and I wont be 
instructing RBS to take any further action in this regard.
Al of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr W in his personal or business capacity here, and it follows that I 
my final decision will be that I am not upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, but I trust that he will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman