DRN-3561431
The complaint
Ms M says Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card Vanquis provided. Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ms 
complaint, as it believed the lending was unaffordable. Vanquis asked for some evidence 
from us. After reflecting on that evidence, Vanquis has agreed to uphold the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Vanquis has agreed to pay the redress specified in our adjudicators assessment, if Ms M 
agrees to that as a fair outcome. So, as there is now no argument about the merits of this 
complaint, I need say nothing more about that. 
So, when Ms M agrees to this decision, Vanquis should put things right.
Putting things right
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms M along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. Vanquis should also remove all adverse information 
regarding this account from Ms Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Vanquis should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms M for the remaining amount. Once 
Ms M has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from their credit file.
As Vanquis has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he/she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Vanquis Bank Limited should put things right in the way set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman