DRN-3396040
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the pricing of her HDI Global Specialty SE pet insurance policy.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs W took out pet insurance for her dog. She opted for lifetime cover, so her policy 
would provide continuous cover for any ongoing or reoccurring conditions, as long as she 
held the policy  rather than a standard policy that would likely apply time limits or exclusions 
once a condition was diagnosed or a claim made. In 2021, Mrs W complained to HDI about 
the cost of her policy, as it had doubled in price between her 2019 and 2020 renewals. 
HDI investigated Mrs Ws complaint and said that it hadnt been made clear to her at 
inception that her policy would increase in price. It set out that policies like her one were 
more expensive than standard insurance due to the comprehensive and ongoing nature of 
cover. It awarded her £350 compensation to account for the misinformation. However it was 
satisfied that the pricing of the policy was correct. Mrs W brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator explained to Mrs W that we didnt have the power to dictate what price 
should be charged for a policy. But we could check that the premium had been calculated 
fairly  in that Mrs W hadnt been treated any differently to other customers and that no 
mistakes had been made in the calculation. The investigator was satisfied that HDI hadnt 
made any errors when calculating the cost and that it was due to the increasing age of her 
dog, claims made, and the type of policy held. So he didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs W 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. She also highlighted to us that 
her 2021 renewal was again about 50% more expensive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have reviewed Mrs Ws whole case and the arguments shes raised, Im in 
agreement with the investigator that HDI hasnt done anything wrong.
I appreciate why Mrs W is unhappy with the premium increases shes experienced, the price 
has gone up substantially since she first insured her dog in 2016. However, I cant see that 
HDI has made any mistakes in how its calculated her premiums or treated her any 
differently to other customers with the same type of cover.
Mrs W has taken out a policy that provides very comprehensive cover. Its unusual for 
insurance (in general) to cover something that is known or quite likely to happen. But this 
policy does provide  within the terms  that level of reassurance, as it covers conditions that 
have occurred and are known to reoccur. But this therefore comes at a greater cost than 
standard insurance. And as Mrs Ws dog gets older, its more likely to experience general 
health problems or for existing issues to reoccur, so these things factor in to how much HDI 
charges Mrs W each year, as the risk its taking on increases.
HDIs file sets out that Mrs Ws dog needed treatment for two conditions under her 2019-
2020 policy and she made four claims to cover this totalling nearly £1,500. So this will have 
impacted her premium, as shes needed to use the policy and the conditions shes claimed 
for could re-occur at a later date. And HDI has factored in the breed of dog owned and what 
it knows about the health of this breed as it ages. So its charged an amount that represents 
the risk its taking on by insuring this type of dog, alongside costs for insurance premium tax 
and it determining what it generally wants to charge for this type of cover. I cant say any of 
these things are unfair. And I can see HDI has treated Mrs W the same as other customers, 
using the same calculations and factors, but just personalising them where appropriate for 
her dog.
I accept its possible Mrs W may not have chosen to buy a lifetime cover policy if shed 
understood that the premiums could increase in the way they have. But I think £350 is fair 
compensation for this not being explained well. And I cant say that Mrs W has lost out 
beyond this, as she can now put herself in the position of not having this type of cover  and 
move to a standard policy, but she will lose the lifetime benefits. Or she can continue with 
this cover, now aware that the price will very likely continue to increase as time goes on, as 
her dog ages; and if she makes further claims. I understand this isnt a comfortable position 
to be in, but I cant say HDI has done anything wrong here, as this is how this type of 
insurance and its pricing works.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman