DRN-3200717
The complaint
Mr K, as the representative of T (a limited company) complains that Markel International 
Insurance Company Limited trading as Markel Legal Expenses Insurance unfairly declined 
cover for a claim it made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Markel within this decision, this includes agents and representatives acting 
on its behalf.
What happened
T is a medical practice and holds legal expenses insurance provided by Markel. Its entered 
into a Primary Care Network (PCN) with a group of other medical practices. 
T requested a payment from the PCN and, when this wasnt made, sought to make a claim 
on its policy with Markel to take legal action to resolve the dispute. Markel declined cover on 
the basis that the contract T had with the PCN wasnt for the provision of goods, services or 
hire.
T complained and when Markel rejected the complaint, Mr K referred the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt think Markel had done anything wrong. Mr K, on behalf of T, 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for any insurance claim to be successful, its the responsibility of the policyholder to 
demonstrate that the circumstances of their claim are covered by the policy. Where an 
insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline cover for that claim, the onus is on the 
insurer to demonstrate that the exclusion applies.
In this complaint, the dispute is about whether the circumstances of Ts claim are covered. 
Markel doesnt seek to rely on any exclusion but says that the wording of the policy terms 
and conditions doesnt extend to the contract between T and the PCN. So on that basis, its 
for T to show that the circumstances of the claim are covered.
The policy terms and conditions provide cover for legal costs in a dispute over a contract for 
the sale, hire or supply of goods and services. It doesnt seem to be disputed that this is the 
only section of the policy which would provide cover for Ts dispute with the PCN.
What T needs to demonstrate therefore is that it has a contract with the PCN for the sale, 
hire or supply of goods and services. In the absence of any other definitions in the policy of 
these words, they should be given their ordinary meaning.
T provides services to patients, and receives payments from the PCN which the PCN 
receives from central funding. But from reviewing the contract between T and the PCN, 
theres no indication within this that T provides services to the PCN. The PCN is a group of 
medical practices but doesnt provide services to those other practices, or receive payments 
from those other practices. Mr K, on behalf of T, also doesnt identify any services which T 
supplies the PCN with, or that it receives from the PCN. The payments T receives from the 
PCN appear to for the services T supplies to other parties. Simply put, theres no contract 
between T and the PCN for the supply of goods or services.
On reviewing the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that the contract between T and the 
PCN isnt for the sale, hire or supply of goods and services. No other section of the policy is 
considered to potentially provide cover for the dispute. As thats the case, theres no cover 
on the policy for the dispute T has with the PCN.  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman