DRN-4272386
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which I will call Trust T, complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc. They are represented by Mr S (who is himself one of the trustees).
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plcs processes are not fit for purpose in 
respect of trust bank accounts. Specifically, he complains that NatWest wrongly placed 
restrictions on Trust Ts account, with the result that payments could not be made to the 
trusts beneficiary. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr S would like NatWest to reimburse Trust T for the trustees fees 
in relation to this issue, and to pay compensation for the inconvenience of having to 
repeatedly provide the same information to NatWest. He would also like NatWest to confirm 
that it now has all the information it needs, and that it will not be placing restrictions on Trust 
Ts account in future. Finally, he would like NatWest to change its processes in respect of 
trust accounts.
This final decision relates to the trustees complaint about Trust Ts bank account only. 
However, the circumstances that led to this complaint are very similar to the circumstances 
that have led to other complaints Mr S has asked me to consider. I hope both he and 
NatWest will understand that that means there are also similarities in the way I have chosen 
to express my findings about his various complaints. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is complex, and involves a great deal of correspondence 
between Mr S and the bank. I confirm I have read all the evidence both parties have 
provided, but Ill briefly summarise the situation as follows:
Mr S is a trustee of four trusts, each of which bank with NatWest. Trust T is one of 
those four trusts. (He is also a NatWest customer in his personal capacity, but his 
personal accounts are not directly relevant here.)
In 2021, he attempted to make changes to the mandate for three of those four trusts, 
including Trust T, and to access online banking. He and his fellow trustees attempted 
to provide NatWest with information about the trusts, and to satisfy it that they were 
who they said they were  but they experienced significant difficulties. NatWest 
accepted that it did not handle that matter well. The 2021 complaints were resolved 
in April 2022, following involvement from one of our investigators, and NatWest paid 
compensation in respect of Trust T.
Shortly after the 2021 complaints were resolved, NatWest requested further evidence 
from the trustees. It told us it did not receive the information it requested within the 
time limits it gave, so it prevented Trust Ts trustees from making withdrawals from 
the trust bank account. That meant the trustees could not make payments to the 
beneficiary of Trust T.
In March 2022, Mr S made further complaints (which I will refer to collectively as the 
2022 complaints). This complaint about Trust T is one of the 2022 complaints. Mr S 
explained that the beneficiary of Trust T was terminally ill, so it was particularly 
important that her payments were uninterrupted.
Mr Ss 2022 complaints were referred to a second investigator (not the one who 
looked at the 2021 complaints). The second investigator did not uphold the 
complaints. In relation to Trust T, he said that the systems NatWest uses and the 
information it requests is a business decision for the bank. He said NatWest had 
been clear about the information it required from Mr S and his fellow trustees, and 
that the bank had also been clear that it would restrict Trust Ts account if it didnt 
receive the information it had asked for. Given that NatWest was carrying out its 
regulatory requirements, our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything 
wrong  so he didnt think it would be fair to recommend compensation.
Mr S did not accept our investigators conclusions about the 2022 complaints. He said he 
had demonstrated to both our service and to the bank that he and his fellow trustees had 
provided all the documentation the bank had asked for. He said they provided that 
documentation by post, through the business profile portal or by a personal visit to a bank 
branch. He also said he does not and cannot accept that NatWest is entitled to seek 
information based on a Trust being a business.
Our investigator could not reach agreement between the trustees and the bank, and so the 
2022 complaints were passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. Briefly, my provisional 
findings were:
NatWest did not treat the trustees of Trust T fairly.
To put the matter right, NatWest should pay the trustees of Trust T £900. 
NatWest should state clearly what information it needs from the trustees, and give 
them one month to provide that information.
In more detail, I said:
My role as an ombudsman
I acknowledge Mr Ss belief that our investigator has been hiding behind rules and 
regulations. I am sorry to cause him further disappointment, but I anticipate he will 
be equally frustrated with me. I dont accept that I am hiding behind rules, but some 
of the requests Mr S has made  for example, that I consider whether the banks 
business practices are fit for purpose  lie outside of my powers.
I am an ombudsman, not a regulator. That means it is not appropriate for me to 
prescribe the maximum (or minimum) time periods between NatWest asking its 
customers for identity evidence. I cannot order NatWest to change its overall 
processes (including the fact it asks trustees to use its Business Profile Portal, or 
BPP), nor can I order it to change the way in which it trains its staff.My powers are explained in more detail in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, which can be found online at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/ . 
In addition, I am only able to consider complaints which have been properly referred 
to me, and which the respondent firm has had a fair opportunity to address. I cannot 
decide of my own volition to begin an investigation, even where I have good reason 
to believe that the customer involved would welcome my involvement. And I cannot 
prejudge or predetermine a complaint that has yet to be made.
All I can do is look at a specific complaint that has been referred to me, taking into 
account the circumstances of that particular case, and determine the fair and 
reasonable outcome in that one case. 
That means I can look at Mr Ss complaint about the actions NatWest has already 
taken, but I cannot (yet) consider a complaint about any restriction the bank might 
apply in future. In addition, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to look again 
at any of Mr Ss 2021 complaints, because they have already been resolved.
Regardless of the merits of any particular case, I do not think it would be appropriate 
for me to attempt to issue a direction preventing a bank from ever applying a 
restriction to a particular account. I think the bank is right to say that it is legally 
required to regularly check that the information it holds about its customers is 
accurate and up-to-date. Given that I cannot possibly know what might happen in 
future, I cannot say now whether future events might lead the bank to be justified in 
applying a restriction.
I recognise that the limits on my powers are not particularly helpful to Mr S. From my 
perspective, it appears there is a cycle developing in which there is some contact 
between Mr S and the bank regarding the banks regulatory responsibilities, 
confusion ensues, and he subsequently makes a complaint. Regardless of whether 
the confusion is the fault of Mr S or the bank, I dont think that situation is satisfactory 
for anyone.
It seems to me that Mr Ss dissatisfaction with the bank is longstanding  and I do not 
think his concerns are likely to be resolved by any order that I might make in relation 
to the complaint in front of me now. I note he has suggested it make be necessary for 
him to issue some form of court proceedings in relation to Trust T if the Bank is 
going to insist that the Trustees must follow its totally inadequate process so that the 
Trustees will never be able to access the account. I ask NatWest to consider 
whether there is anything it can do to reduce the likelihood that Mr S will feel the 
need to take court action.
Did NatWest treat the trustees fairly?
NatWest has considerable commercial discretion in the way it chooses to comply 
with its regulatory responsibilities. Mr S has not at any point disputed that, nor has he 
disputed NatWests right to request information about its customers. His concern is 
about NatWest asking for information he cannot provide (such as the trusts website 
address), and about its for requests for information that he says it has already been 
given and then misplaced.
There are discrepancies between the evidence NatWest has provided to me and the 
evidence Mr S has given me. Those discrepancies relate to whether Ts trustees did 
or did not provide various pieces of information to NatWest.I consider that the evidence Mr S has provided is internally consistent. By that, I 
mean I havent seen any examples of him contradicting himself, or retracting a 
statement he has previously made. Overall, he appears to be a meticulous individual 
who is trying his best to assist me.
However, I do have some concerns about NatWests record keeping in respect of 
Trust T. For example, I note:
Mr Ss 2021 complaint about Trust T was in part about his difficulties in 
removing a previous trustee, a Mr H, from the mandate for the trusts bank 
account after Mr Hs retirement from the trust. 
Mr S accepted compensation in respect of the 2021 complaint, and it appears 
that both he and NatWest believed at that point that NatWests records in 
respect of Trust T were correct.
Very soon after the 2021 complaint was resolved, NatWest began writing to 
Mr H asking him for information about Trust T. Mr S received those letters, 
and attempted to answer NatWests questions. But Mr Ss attempts were not 
successful, and NatWest restricted the trustees access to Trust Ts bank 
account. The impact of that restriction was a disruption in payments to one of 
Trust Ts beneficiaries. I can see that Mr S had told NatWest several times 
that the beneficiary was terminally ill, and that it was important that her 
payments were not interrupted.
In May 2022, NatWest apologised for sending letters to Mr H and offered the 
trustees £550 compensation as a result (some of which it intended as 
compensation for the beneficiary). It acknowledged in May 2022 that it knew 
Mr H had retired as a trustee.
Despite its apology, it then sent several further letters to Mr H requesting that 
he provide more information about Trust T. Mr S has suggested that this 
implies NatWest had not in fact updated its records, despite its promise to do 
so. I am unable to think of an alternative explanation, but if NatWest would 
like to provide one I am of course very happy to consider it.
In these circumstances, where there is a discrepancy between the evidence provided 
by Mr S and the evidence provided by NatWest, I find Mr Ss version of events more 
persuasive. That means I am satisfied that he and his fellow trustee did provide 
identity evidence when they said they did. I am also satisfied that, to the best of their 
ability, they did comply with NatWests requests that they provide information about 
the trust.
I acknowledge that NatWest says it is not now in possession of the documents it 
needs. I accept that. But I think the two most likely explanations for the lack of 
documents are that either NatWest has misplaced the documents it received, or that 
NatWest did not tell the trustees what it still needed and so the trustees had no 
opportunity to provide those documents.
Mr S appears unclear as to what NatWest still needs  he thinks hes provided 
everything it has asked for at least once, and some of those things several times 
over. I am similarly confused; it is not at all clear to me what NatWest still needs from 
Ts trustees. I am therefore unable to conclude that NatWest has explained its position in a way understandable to Mr S. I do not think the bank has done enough to 
tell the trustees what it needs in order to allow the trusts bank account to function as 
intended.
Putting things right
In this case, I think there are two things NatWest needs to put right. Firstly, it should 
ensure that its records in respect of T are now correct. Secondly, it should 
compensate the trustees for the distress and inconvenience its errors have already 
caused. 
It appears the parties are at something of an impasse in respect of NatWests 
records. Mr S says  and I accept  that he has provided the information NatWest 
requested many times over. He does not wish to provide the information again, 
presumably because he believes doing so will merely cause inconvenience to him 
without actually moving matter forward.
NatWest says  and again I accept its evidence  that it does not in fact have the 
information it needs to comply with its regulatory requirements. Regardless of why 
NatWest does not have that information, and regardless of whether the lack is 
entirely NatWests own fault, I am not prepared to make an order requiring NatWest 
to ignore those requirements.
To resolve the matter, I propose the following:
Within one month of Ts trustees accepting my final decision, NatWest should 
write to the trustees setting out precisely what information it needs in respect 
of Trust T, and giving them a named contact and address to send that 
information to.
Ts trustees should then be able to provide the information NatWest needs. I 
acknowledge that that will cause them further inconvenience, and I have 
taken that into account in the compensation I suggest below.
NatWest should give the trustees a month to respond to its information 
request. Until that month has expired, NatWest should not use the fact it does 
not have the information it has asked for to apply restrictions to Ts account. (I 
should make clear that I do not intend to prevent NatWest from applying a 
restriction should it believe it needs to do so for some other reason, for 
example if it were to receive new information that caused it concern.)
I hope NatWest will choose to respond to this provisional decision by giving me a 
detailed explanation of the information it still requires. But it is not bound by this 
provisional decision, and it will not be bound by my final decision unless and until the 
trustees accept that decision.
So far as financial compensation is concerned, Im currently minded to award £900. I 
know that is much less than Mr S believes is fair, and much more than NatWest has 
offered. But in reaching that figure, I have in mind:
Ts trustees have already accepted compensation in April 2022 in respect of 
NatWests errors up to that point. It would not be right for me to compensate 
them again for the same errors.We do not usually award compensation at a complainants hourly rate; we do 
not value one persons time over anothers. I make no criticism of Mr Ss 
schedule of costs (other than where it covers costs incurred prior to April 
2022), but my award is not based on that schedule.
In addition, we do not usually make awards for the time complainants spend 
in making complaints, either to us or to the firm involved. 
We do consider the impact that the businesss mistake had on the individual 
complainant. In this case, I think the distress of Ts trustees would have been 
compounded by the fact they had only very recently had to make a complaint 
about a closely related issue, and that they (wrongly) believed NatWest had 
resolved the issue it had with its records.
In this case, NatWest realised on 11 May 2022 that it had made a mistake 
with its information requests to Trust T.  It acknowledged that it had been 
writing to a Mr H to ask for further information  and yet it knew (as a result of 
the previous complaint) that Mr H was no longer a trustee of T. Given that Mr 
S sent the bank a copy of Mr Hs death certificate in March 2021, I consider 
that the bank ought to have known in May 2022 that Mr H had died.
NatWest apologised and offered the trustees £550 compensation in respect 
of its errors in writing to Mr H. I think that offer was fair at the time it was 
made, and that it does represent fair compensation for the errors NatWest 
had made at that point. 
However, despite its apology, NatWest continued writing to Mr H about Trust 
T. After making its offer and acknowledging that Mr H was not associated with 
the trust, it then wrote to Mr H several more times  at least once a month 
(and sometimes more often) for the next three months.
I dont think NatWests errors in writing to Mr H made a practical difference. 
Mr S did receive the correspondence intended for Ts trustees, and he was 
able to act on it. But I think the banks repeated letters to Mr Ss deceased 
former colleague would have caused Mr S entirely avoidable distress, and he 
should be compensated for that.
NatWest made a manual intervention to ensure that the beneficiarys 
payments continued after May 2022 even though it did not all the information 
it needed. So I dont think the banks errors after that point caused any further 
loss to the beneficiary.
Mr S will now need to provide documentary evidence to NatWest yet again. 
Had he been providing evidence for the first time, I would not have awarded 
any compensation. But I think the evidence (particularly in respect of Mr H) 
suggests that NatWest has not been updating its records properly. Im 
satisfied that Mr S has made previous attempts to answer NatWests 
questions, and so I think the trustees should be compensated for having to do 
so again.
It is of course possible that, on receipt of this provisional decision, NatWest will 
conduct a thorough search and determine that in fact it does have the documents it 
needs after all. If it chooses to carry out a search, it may wish to start by looking to see if any of the documents it needs in respect of Trust T have been misfiled against 
other trusts Mr S is associated with.
The compensation I intend to award is based on the assumption that NatWest in fact 
cannot find the documents it needs, and Trust Ts trustees will need to provide those 
documents again. If that turns out not to be the case  and NatWest is able to 
reassure me that it does not immediately need anything further from the trustees  
then its likely I will reduce the amount of compensation that I think is fair.
Neither party accepted my provisional decision.
Briefly, NatWest said:
It acknowledges that I said I was persuaded by Mr Ss version of events. However, it 
has not seen any evidence to suggest that the trust deed was uploaded to its portal 
before 16 May 2022. If there is any evidence on that point, it would like that evidence 
to be shared.
In addition, on 14th July [2022] we wrote to the customer to confirm we needed [a 
specific form] to be completed and provided a copy of the form with the letter. (I note 
that this letter was in fact sent to Mr H, at a time when the bank knew Mr H had died.) 
NatWest went on to say The customer supplied this on 1st August and the review 
was completed on 5th September 2022 with no further outstanding requirements.
It does not know why Mr S says his account access is restricted. Its position is that 
he has full access to Trust Ts account, and the KYC review is complete. If he does 
have any access issues, they are not in any way related to this complaint and he will 
need to raise a new complaint about a new issue.
Its customer portal and FAQ are very clear on all of its requirements, and when a 
document is outstanding it will have a cross beside it (rather than a tick if it has been 
provided).
It acknowledges that it wrote to a deceased individual after issuing its final response, 
and it agrees that further compensation is appropriate. But it considers that the 
additional compensation should reflect minimal inconvenience.
Overall, it expects that I will significantly reduce the award I proposed unless Mr S is 
able to supply evidence to back up his version of events to show the correct (and 
correctly certified) documents were already previously supplied.
In summary, Mr S said:
My proposed award of £900 is different to  and inconsistent with  the awards I 
proposed in the three other trust cases he brought to our service.
He considers that the ombudsman service should make an award to both the 
trustees and to the beneficiary (or her estate). He does not accept that I have no 
power to make an award to the beneficiary.
He has received no explanation as to why he is required to provide identity evidence 
separately in respect of all four of the trusts. 
An award of £900 would not properly factor in the level of distress and inconvenience suffered, nor does it compensate for being out of the money. He does not believe 
that it would represent fair and reasonable compensation in all the circumstances of 
the complaint.
NatWest continued to levy monthly bank charges whilst providing poor service, and it 
should refund those charges.
He considers that I should make an award for his professional costs, which as at 
February 2023 exceeded £5,000 (and have since increased).
He also considers that NatWest did not provide a service which was prompt, efficient 
and fair, and therefore that it has breached regulations in the Banking Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). He also considers that it has breached the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) in respect of delay in carrying out payment 
instructions. He notes that the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) 
provides a route for damages in the event of such a breach.
NatWest has yet again placed a restriction on his online banking. He does not know 
why it has done so, and it requires that restriction to be removed immediately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed responses to my provisional decision. I confirm that I 
have read and considered everything they have said, but I have not responded to every 
point they have made. I intend no discourtesy by that; it simply reflects the informal nature of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
When I issued my February 2023 provisional decision, I hadnt realised that NatWest had 
completed its review in September 2022. I thought the review was still ongoing and that the 
trustees would have to provide further information  but I also thought the trustees had 
already provided everything NatWest said it needed, so I wasnt clear on what more 
NatWest wanted.
In light of NatWests response to my provisional decision, I am satisfied that NatWest does 
not in fact want any additional information in order to carry out its KYC review for Trust T. 
That means I no longer think it would be fair for me to order NatWest to pay the trustees 
compensation for having to provide that additional information.
I acknowledge that Mr S has said he is still unable to access Trust Ts account online. But I 
am satisfied with the evidence NatWest has provided in that respect, and I am further 
satisfied that any difficulties he is experiencing with Trust T are not related to this complaint. 
That means I cannot consider them in this final decision. It is of course open to Mr S to make 
another complaint about those issues. I can understand why he might be reluctant to do that, 
and I know he was frustrated by the necessity of raising new complaints following the 2021 
complaints. But I simply have no power to consider additional issues as part of this decision. 
Taking into account all the information both parties have provided, I now consider that the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for NatWest to pay the trustees £650 
for the inconvenience they have suffered. 
I acknowledge that the award I am making here is different to the award I have made in 
other complaints Mr S has brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. That is because the circumstances that led to this complaint are unique. I agree that there are similarities with 
the other complaints, but I am required to reach an outcome that I believe to be fair and 
reasonable in this individual complaint  and that is what I have done.
I also acknowledge that NatWest strongly disagrees with me, but I remain satisfied that it did 
not make its requirements clear to Mr S. At the time I issued my provisional decision, I was 
unable to work out what NatWests requirements were or how Mr S could comply with them. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed that I have not looked more broadly at the way NatWest 
handles trust accounts. As I said in my provisional decision, I am an ombudsman not a 
regulator, and I have no power to carry out the review he would like. I am only able to look at 
this individual complaint, and it would not be appropriate for me to make any more general 
comments about how NatWest should treat trustees, or about how (if at all) it should link 
accounts for trusts with trustees in common.
I am aware that Mr S I have the power to make an award to the beneficiary for distress that 
she has suffered, but he is mistaken on that point. The beneficiary is not an eligible 
complainant under our rules, and I have no power to make an award for losses suffered by 
third parties. I accept that knowledge of the beneficiarys distress may itself have been 
distressing to the trustees, and I have taken that into account in considering my award.
In addition, I do not have the power to investigate the way a bank has handled a complaint. 
Complaint handling is not an activity covered under our rules. The activities we do cover are 
set out in full at DISP 2.3 ( https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/3.html ).
I do have the power to make an award for professional costs where I believe it is fair and 
reasonable for me to do so. But I make no such award here. Mr S is bringing this complaint 
in his capacity as a trustee. NatWest is entitled to ask him, as a trustee, to comply with its 
KYC process. Given the circumstances here, I see no basis on which I could fairly require 
NatWest to reimburse his costs in complying with that process or in bringing his complaint to 
our service.
I also have the power to order a bank to refund charges, but again I may only do so where I 
believe that is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Here, NatWest has provided 
a banking service to Trust T throughout. There have been deficiencies in that service  
hence my award for inconvenience  but I see no reason why NatWest should not be 
entitled to charge for the services it has provided.
Finally, I confirm that I have taken the relevant rules and regulations into account before 
reaching the overall conclusion that a payment of £650 to the trustees represents fair 
compensation. I acknowledge that Mr S considers that I have reached the wrong conclusion. 
The trustees are not required to accept my decision, and if they choose not to do so it will 
not be binding on them or the bank. If they reject my decision, any legal rights they may 
have will not be affected by my consideration of their complaint.
Putting things right
Taking into account all the information both parties have provided, I now consider that the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for NatWest to pay the trustees £650 
for the inconvenience they have suffered. In saying that, I have in mind the comments I 
made in my provisional decision. In addition:
The trustees are not required to submit any further information with respect to 
NatWests KYC exercise for Trust T, and so it would not be appropriate for me to 
order NatWest to pay compensation for the further inconvenience doing so would 
have caused.However, I still think NatWest has made errors, and that the KYC process was 
unnecessarily protracted. It repeatedly wrote to Mr H, and continued to do so even 
after it had apologised for the previous letters it had sent to him.  
Looking at everything that happened, and applying my own judgement, my opinion is 
that a payment of £650 represents fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by the trustees.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Trust Ts trustees £650 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trust T to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman