DRN-3846172
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) gave him an unreasonably low settlement 
offer for his vehicle after it was damaged in an accident. 
What happened
Mr R had an accident in his vehicle which resulted in it being declared a total loss. He made 
a claim on his policy and was contacted by AXAs engineer, who asked if he was VAT 
registered. Mr R recalls that the engineer confirmed to him that he would be paid VAT in 
addition to the settlement amount. However, when he received the settlement monies, it was 
£5,500 less than he expected. 
Mr R complained to AXA about the way his claim had been handled. When responding to his 
complaint, AXA clarified that the settlement monies were exclusive of VAT, as Mr R could 
claim the VAT back himself. However, AXA partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and initially 
paid Mr £100 for the delay in clarifying that the settlement sum was exclusive of VAT, which 
was later increased to £300. However, while accepting its engineer could have been clearer 
in explaining the VAT position, AXA remained of the view that it was correct to not pay Mr R 
the VAT element of his total loss settlement. 
Unhappy with AXAs response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and issued her view, not upholding the complaint, on 
1 December 2022. In summary, she said that she felt AXA had acted fairly in not paying VAT 
to Mr R on the settlement offer, as he is able to claim that himself, given he is VAT 
registered. She also concluded that AXA had fairly compensated Mr R for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused by its failure to clearly explain this when initially discussing 
the settlement offer with him, by paying him £300. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions dont seem to expressly address whether VAT will be paid 
on a settlement offer where a policyholder is VAT registered. However, I think AXAs 
decision to pay the settlement amount to Mr R, exclusive of VAT is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because if a policyholder is VAT registered and only uses the 
vehicle for business purposes (as I understand is the case with Mr R) they can usually claim 
the VAT back through their HMRC return. That means the actual loss suffered is the cost of 
the vehicle excluding VAT, so the insurer doesnt need to add VAT to the settlement. 
I understand that Mr R is frustrated at being informed he would be paid VAT in addition to 
the settlement sum. However, its clear that was communicated to him in error, and AXA has 
paid Mr R £300 for the inconvenience caused to him, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. It might assist Mr R if I explain that on our website we give examples of 
circumstances for which we would award varying levels of compensation. An award in 
excess of £5,000 for distress and inconvenience would only be made in circumstances 
where the actions of the business have an extreme impact on the complainant, which Im 
satisfied isnt the case here. 
I therefore wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman