DRN-3415546
Complaint
Mrs B has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mrs B with an initial loan for £2,000.00 in March 2016. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £150. Mrs B repaid this loan early 
and in May 2017 Mrs B was provided with a second loan for £2,800.00. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £130. One of our adjudicators reviewed         
Mrs Bs complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mrs B with either of 
these loans. Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Bs complaint. 
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs B could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
At the time of loan 1, the credit check carried out showed Mrs B had at least one outstanding 
default. So I would have expected Avant Credit to take a closer look at Mrs Bs expenditure 
to ensure that she could afford the monthly payments before lending to her. For loan 2, I 
accept that Avant Credit may argue that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a 
relatively light touch assessment would have been proportionate here. But Im mindful that 
this was Mrs Bs second loan with Avant Credit. And the information Avant Credit has itself 
provided suggests that Mrs B didnt have the disposable income required to repay this loan. 
It seems rather strange to me that Avant Credit still thought that Mrs B could make her 
payments in these circumstances.  
So Im persuaded by what Mrs B has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time of these loans. And while its possible Mrs Bs credit file reflected her choices 
rather ongoing financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, the results of Avant Credits affordability assessment and the suggestion   
Mrs Bs disposable income wasnt enough to make the loan payments to loan 2 persuade 
me this wasnt the case. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Bs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mrs B. 
As Avant Credit provided Mrs B with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. Mrs B has ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges on loans she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs B lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mrs B
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mrs B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs B paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs B to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman