DRN-3356626
The complaint
Mr R complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) unfairly blocked his account, returned funds held in it 
to the originating accounts and then closed it. 
What happened
In May 2020, Revolut placed Mr Rs account under review and blocked it at the same time. 
Mr R is aware Revolut did this after it had received reports from third party financial 
businesses. 
Revolut asked Mr R some questions about some transactions a few days later. It didnt then 
to anything more in terms of asking Mr R for information until September 2020 - which 
included asking him about his banking and business activity. 
In late November 2020, Revolut told Mr R it had taken too long in completing its checks and 
apologised for this.  It also said it had completed its review, was closing Mr Rs account, and 
that it was sending any remaining funds back to the source accounts. 
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, Mr R complained. The matter was referred to our service, 
and one of our Investigators looked into the matter. In summary, they found: 
- Revolut delayed its investigation as it didnt ask Mr R substantive questions about the 
account until September 2020 
- Revolut didnt act properly on reports it received from third party banks by making 
appropriate enquires 
- Mr R has provided enough information to show he used his account for activities 
related to carrying out his business and for making crypto currency trades as he 
asserts 
- Revolut did nothing wrong when it reviewed, blocked and then closed Mr Rs account
- Revolut should refund all funds that were returned to the source accounts plus 8% 
simple interest, and pay Mr R £150 compensation for delays caused
Revolut didnt agree with our Investigator. 
Revolut say it caried out appropriate enquiries, gathered sufficient evidence, and had 
legitimate concerns to validate its actions given the obligations placed upon it.
The matter was then passed to me to decide. I wrote to both Mr R and Revolut explaining 
what outcome I was planning to reach and invited them to send me further information and 
arguments. 
In short, I said Revolut should refund the funds back to Mr R but less the two payments it 
received reports about, with 8% simple interest added from the date they were returned till 
settlement. I also recommended Revolut should pay Mr R £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused  mainly for the extensive delays in its investigation  
In response, Mr R says he would like Revolut to refund all his funds because he traded 
honestly when trading crypto currency online. He adds hes not been able to get any of the 
funds back from the account holders Revolut sent them back to. Mr R would also like to 
know what two transactions I was talking about that dont need to be refunded.   
Revolut gave me more information which it says shows why it had legitimate concerns and 
why it didnt do anything wrong by closing Mr Rs account and sending all funds back to 
source. 
Revolut also say it shouldnt have to pay Mr R compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience it caused because it was Mr Rs activity that caused the investigation to take 
place. But it admits Mr Rs case hadnt been effectively worked by it between May and 
August 2020.
I will now decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Account review and closure 
Financial businesses in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to restrict, 
or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Because of this, Im satisfied Revolut did nothing wrong by placing a block on Mr Rs 
account and reviewing the activity on it. 
A regulated business like Revolut is entitled to close an account just as a customer may 
close an account with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the account and having done that Im satisfied 
Revolut acted both fairly and reasonably when deciding to close Mr Rs account in the way it 
has given the concerns it had.  
Funds returned to source
Id like to assure Revolut and Mr R that I have very carefully considered everything they 
have said  and all the information Ive been provided related to this point. Having done that, 
Im persuaded, on balance, that Revolut acted fairly when returning two payments it had 
received third party reports about to the source accounts. I say this because there were two 
reports from separate entities. And, there was also other information which added to 
Revoluts concerns. 
I am under no obligation to expressly set-out the details of what those reports or the other 
information Ive seen show. Mr R has already been asked information about these payments by our Investigator, so Im not entirely sure why hes asking about them.  But for clarity the 
two payments are for £249.96 and £190 respectively. Both originally credited Mr Rs account 
on 14 May 2020. 
Having said that, and for the sake of completeness, I do think Revolut could have done more 
than it did to investigate and gather sufficient information about these transactions. Its likely 
that had there not been two third-party reports from separate entities, and other information 
for Revolut to have concerns about Mr R, my decision in respect of this point may have been 
different.
That brings me onto whether Revolut acted fairly in returning all the other transactions back 
to the source accounts. Im not persuaded Revolut has done enough to show these funds 
should also have been returned to the source accounts. I say that because there isnt 
anything to show they investigated each of these transactions as Id expect, to see whether 
they related, even in broader terms, to the type of concern it had about Mr R. 
I also question why Revolut didnt opt to keep hold of these funds longer to see if like the 
other two payments, claims were made against them too. In reaching this conclusion, Ive 
carefully weighed up what Revolut have said about its concerns and the information it has 
given me. But Im not persuaded they show it had enough cause to return all the funds. 
So, it follows that I will be directing Revolut to refund these transactions. 
Distress and inconvenience 
Lastly, Revolut argue it shouldnt have to pay Mr R any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused as it was fulfilling its regulatory and legal obligations by carrying out 
an investigation. 
To be clear, Ive already said Revolut has important legal and regulatory obligations to 
adhere to. So any award for compensation for distress and inconvenience isnt in relation to 
this. But Revolut has made an admission on at least two occasions, as referenced above, 
that its investigation didnt meet the expected standards as it caused avoidable delay. 
Ive also read the chat history between Revoluts operatives and Mr R, and they show he 
made many attempts to chase up on the investigation. This no doubt caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr R, and having his funds returned to source would have added to this.
So I think an award of compensation is a fair and reasonable measure in the circumstances 
of this complaint.    
Putting things right
To put things right, Revolut Ltd must: 
- Refund all funds it returned to source less two payments of £249.96 and £190. 
Revolut Ltd should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the day they 
were returned to source until settlement
- It should pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Revolut Ltd to 
put things right as above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Ombudsman