DRN-2364771
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus didnt pay 
two direct debits as his debit card had expired and initially told him one of the direct debits 
hadnt been requested. 
What happened
Mr B says he was told that a direct debit payment had failed to a business I will call B and 
so contacted Cashplus. He says he was told B hadnt requested the payment and so spent 
some time speaking to both parties about what had taken place. Mr B says he was then told 
by Cashplus that the direct debit had failed but due to an expired debit card which he hadnt 
been told about. He says a mortgage payment also failed which has impacted his credibility 
and says Cashplus ought to have told him what the problem was when he first called. Mr B 
would like an apology and a letter that he can provide to those affected including the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Cashplus says it suspended Mr Bs account card on 21 August 2018 following concerns over 
transactions. It says it does that to prompt a customer into calling it and says in those 
circumstances it doesnt automatically renew the card. Cashplus says that is what took place 
here that the direct debit failed as the account card had expired and so it acted in line with 
agreed account terms and conditions. It also says the call between it and Mr B failed and so 
it couldnt investigate and tell him that. Cashplus says it tried to call Mr B.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought Cashplus had misled Mr B by telling him B hadnt requested the direct debit and 
could have followed up the account block in August 2018. The investigator thought it clear 
Mr B didnt use the account card and would not know about the block despite speaking to 
Cashplus at the time. The investigator recommended Cashplus pay £150 compensation and 
write a letter that Mr B could use to provide to the CRAs, and the companies affected by the 
failed direct debits.
Cashplus doesnt accept that view and says its not responsible for how Mr B uses his 
account and that he had ample time to notice the account card had expired. Mr B does 
accept the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Cashplus hasnt dealt fairly with this 
complaint.
I have looked at Cashpluss records and can see that Mr B provided information to it about a 
large transaction in 2018 and also gave it authority to speak to his solicitor about it. I can see 
that Cashplus has recorded that it was content that the transaction was genuine and that 
there were a number of what I think were related transactions in the days that followed. So, I 
dont think it clear or that Cashplus has explained why, it had concerns about transactions at 
that time and why it decided to block Mr Bs account card in order to prompt him to contact it.
I accept that Mr B didnt use his account card and wouldnt have known about the 
restrictions. I dont think Cashplus has explained why it didnt try and speak to Mr B about 
what had happened or why the block was placed after the transactions. In any event there is 
no dispute that the direct debit to B failed and that prompted Mr B to call Cashplus. I have 
seen Cashpluss notes about that call and what Mr B says about it. And so, I dont think 
there can be any doubt Mr B was told that B hadnt requested the direct debit which 
Cashplus now accepts was incorrect information.
I appreciate Cashplus says the call of 9 June 2020 ended and so it couldnt investigate what 
had happened any further. But Im satisfied that during that call Mr B was given incorrect 
information and I can see from Cashpluss records that it checked the position again on 30 
June 2020 and maintained that B hadnt made the direct debit request. So, I dont think it 
matters that the call of 9 June 2020 ended as I think it likely Cashplus would have 
maintained as it did until at least 7 July 2020 that it wasnt responsible for the failed direct 
debit and it was the fault of B.
I can see that Cashplus did on 7 July 2020 find out what was the cause of the failed direct 
debit which was the expired card, but by that stage a further direct debit had failed.
Im satisfied that Cashplus could have done more to tell Mr B about the account block in 
2018. And ought to have appreciated what the problem was when Mr B called it in June 
2020. Im also satisfied Cashplus misled Mr B during that call and gave him incorrect 
information which meant he then went back to B and would have spent some time trying to 
find out why the direct debit failed. I think that if Cashplus had told Mr B what the problem 
was then steps could have been taken to avoid the second direct debit failing. And I dont 
think it matters that Mr B has chosen not to use the account card. I can see that despite the 
account block Cashplus has continued to charge Mr B an annual account fee.
Overall, Im satisfied Cashplus ought to pay compensation to Mr B for the time and 
inconvenience he was caused by the incorrect information he was given in June 2020. Im 
also satisfied that the amount recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Cashplus should pay £150 compensation and I also think that it ought to write a letter to Mr 
B that he can show the CRAs and the recipients of the direct debits explaining what took 
place and that he wasnt responsible for the failed direct debits.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus to pay Mr B £150 compensation and write him the letter as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman