DRN-4149883
The complaint
Mrs S complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company (AAUIC) hasnt provided a full refund
of premiums when it cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mrs S took out a motor insurance policy which was due to start on 8 November 
2022.
On 4 November, AAUIC requested further information from her to validate the 
policy and it asked Mrs S to provide it within seven days  which she did on         
9 November 2022.
The next day, AAUIC asked Mrs S why she had two insurance policies. She 
explained her other policy was a fleet policy because she provided taxi services, 
but that she needed the policy with AAUIC for domestic use.
On 16 November, AAUIC told Mrs S that because of her occupation as a taxi 
driver it couldnt insure her, and that cover would cease on 23 November 2022. It 
provided details for an alternative insurer who would be able to provide cover.
When the policy ended AAUIC provided a pro-rata refund of the premiums for the 
time on cover.
Mrs S complained saying she should be entitled to a full refund of premiums  
along with other fees.
AAUIC was satisfied it handled Mrs S claim fairly and referred her to the terms 
and conditions about cancelling the policy.
Unhappy, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service. An Investigator considered it 
but didnt uphold it. Because Mrs S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Within this decision I am only considering whether AAUIC acted fairly by providing a 
pro-rata refund in respect of Mrs S motor insurance policy.
The arrangement fee and cancellation fee were charged by an insurance 
intermediary and so, dont form part of this complaint. Likewise, AAUIC isnt 
responsible for the legal expenses and car hire premiums charged by a separate 
insurer.
The starting point is the policy document which says AAUIC will refund a percentage 
of the premium on a pro rata basis equivalent to the period of cover left unused. So, 
Im satisfied the policy makes it clear any refund of premiums would be reduced to 
take account of any days Mrs S had cover.
The policy confirms this approach applies regardless of whether the policy was 
cancelled within or outside the 14-day cooling off period from when the contract of 
insurance started. And so, had Mrs S policy been cancelled within this period, she 
would have still been required to pay a premium for the time she had cover.
Because of this, Im not persuaded by Mrs S argument that had AAUIC dealt with 
concerns about her policy more quickly, she would have received a full refund of the 
premiums. 
But Ive considered whether AAUIC could have reasonably dealt with the matter in a 
timelier manner therefore, reducing the time on cover and the amount of premium 
Mrs S had to pay. And Ive thought about whether it caused Mrs S avoidable distress 
and inconvenience.
Its standard practice for insurers to request further information to validate cover. And 
so, its reasonable that upon learning Mrs S had two policies, AAUIC made further 
enquiries  at which point it discovered her occupation was a taxi driver.
I note AAUIC initially asked for information on 4 November and Mrs S provided this 
five days later, by which point the policy had started. And so, whilst AAUIC did have 
to make further enquiries, I dont think its reasonable to attribute all the time it took to 
reach an outcome on Mrs S policy to its handling of it.
I dont agree with Mrs S suggestion that upon realising she had two policies, AAUIC 
should have cancelled her policy with immediate effect as doing so would have left 
her in a predicament of being uninsured. Until it received all the relevant information 
AAUIC couldnt make an informed decision as to whether it could provide cover.
Rather, I consider it reasonable that AAUIC gave Mrs S seven days notice that it 
would be cancelling her insurance policy which gave her time to source alternative 
cover  which I note it also helped her find. And I think its reasonable that if Mrs S 
didnt want cover to continue until this point, she could have contacted AAUIC to say 
so.
Ultimately, AAUIC needed to refer the matter to its underwriter and whilst this may 
have extended things, Im not satisfied AAUICs decision to do so was unreasonable. 
Furthermore, from the correspondence Ive seen, AAUIC did so in a timely manner.
As Im not persuaded AAUIC caused avoidable delays, Im not satisfied its 
reasonable to ask it to provide a full refund of the premiums. Rather, Im satisfied it 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions by providing a pro-rata refund 
based on the time cover was in place.
Whilst I appreciate this situation was frustrating for Mrs S, Ive not been provided with 
evidence which persuades me AAUIC should be held responsible for this, and so, Im 
not recommending compensation be paid to Mrs S.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman