DRN-3191112
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Volkswagen Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft has unfairly 
declined a claim he made under his extended motor warranty.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in detail 
here. 
The crux of the complaint is that Volkswagen has declined to cover Mr Ms claim for a fault 
with his car because, at the time of the claim, hed exceeded his annual mileage limit. Mr M 
feels this is unfair.
Our investigator didnt think Volkswagen had acted unfairly, and so didnt think Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld.
The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ms warranty included a clearly stated annual mileage limit of 10,000 miles. At the 
time of the fault Mr M had exceeded this limit by over 8,000 miles, as shown by the 
recorded mileage at each stage.
For this warranty, the terms and conditions explain that:
We will not pay for repair or replacement where your vehicle has exceeded 
your selected annual mileage limit at the time of the claim occurrence, unless 
you have chosen an unlimited mileage policy.
While I accept and appreciate that the reason Mr M exceeded his mileage limit was 
because he was carrying out charity work during the pandemic, I dont think this 
means that Volkswagen has done anything wrong. The mileage limit was selected by 
Mr M and the warranty is clear that claims will not be covered where the limit has 
been exceeded.
Given the charity work Mr M was undertaking, I think it would have been foreseeable 
that he would likely exceed his mileage limit. Volkswagen offer a policy with unlimited 
mileage, so Mr M could have contacted Volkswagen to extend his mileage limit or to 
take out an unlimited mileage warranty. But he didnt do either.
Mr M hasnt suggested that he attempted to amend his policy. However, he has 
suggested that Volkswagen was closed during the pandemic. So, he says he 
wouldnt have been able to change his mileage limit had he attempted to do so. But 
Ive checked this with Volkswagen, and it has confirmed this wasnt the case and that 
its call centre remained open throughout the pandemic. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ms frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
I note that Mr M has also raised concerns about Volkswagen continuing to take payments 
from him after the warranty had been cancelled. However, this issue was not part of the 
initial complaint referred to our service. If Mr M wishes to complain about this, he should 
raise his complaint with Volkswagen in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about Volkswagen Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman