DRN-4245587
The complaint
Mr G complains that EUI Limited (Admiral) has treated him unfairly in relation to his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, I wont repeat it here and 
Ill simply summarise events.
Mr G has a policy with Admiral. This is multi insurance policy that provides different 
covers. Mr Gs son was added to this policy.
In January 2023 Mr Gs son was involved in an accident and made a claim under his 
own cover. 
During this time, Mr G says he was contacted by Admiral incorrectly on a number of 
occasions mistakenly referencing Mr Gs own claim  when instead this was his 
sons. He tried to clarify this with Admiral and reported long waits on the phone and 
various chains of messages. Mr G also described frustration caused by third parties 
reaching out to him related to a loss that was not his own. He has said this was a 
breach of his data protection rights.
So, Mr G complained to Admiral. This complaint then came to this Service and one of 
our Investigators looked into what happened. He said:
oIt was evident Mr G had been contacted by Admiral and various parties 
incorrectly related to a claim that was not his own.
oAdmiral would need to correct the insurance claims database (CUE) should 
it have recorded any such claim incorrectly. 
oFor its mistakes, Admiral should provide Mr G with £300 compensation.
Around this time, Admiral issued a final response to Mr G. Within it, it acknowledged 
fault in places and offered £300 compensation. It confirmed the CUE data for Mr G 
was correct. 
Mr G was unhappy, saying it had failed to engage with his complaint points, 
apologise or give clear answers to how and why matters went wrong. So, he asked 
for the matter to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats not to say I havent 
seen or considered them, its just I dont consider it necessary to specifically 
reference them in reaching my decision. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a 
reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
This complaint is brought by Mr G. And as our Investigator has outlined, this means 
this complaint concerns the impact of any such mistakes on him as an individual, and 
not his family members or any complaint they may have with Admiral. For instance, 
Mr G has mentioned a previous cheque of £100 that was sent to one of his sons but 
intended for the other. I cannot comment on this as it falls outside of the scope of Mr 
Gs complaint.
In this case, it is evident that Admiral has made many mistakes in relation to Mr Gs 
details and data. And Admiral hasnt disputed this, nor that its actions have caused 
frustration to Mr G. So, Im satisfied Mr G has been caused avoidable and 
unnecessary frustration and had to spend a lot of his own time trying to deal with this 
matter when there was no reason to involve him.
I understand Mr G wishes to know the cause of these mistakes  whether wilful or 
unintentional error. While I appreciate this, my role requires me to look at whether a 
business has made a mistake, and if it has, make a direction to put things right. In 
this instance, the reasons behind the mistake are not material to the direction I am 
making as Im simply satisfied Mr G has been poorly treated by Admiral.
Admiral has confirmed Mr Gs CUE data is correct, so I see no reason to make a 
further direction on this matter.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied a sum of £300 compensation accounts 
for the personal distress and inconvenience Admiral has caused Mr G. 
My final decision
For the above reasons EUI Limited trading as Admiral must pay Mr G £300 in compensation 
for the avoidable distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman