DRN-2900778
The complaint
Miss W complains Barclays Bank UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions. She
would like these to be refunded and to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience
caused.  
What happened
In the early hours of 27th March 2020, two transactions left Miss Ws account within a minute
of each other. Each one was for £900 and were made to a third party who I will call M.
These transfers used up the balance on Miss Ws account.
Miss W complained to Barclays later that day. She said she hadnt made the payments and
didnt know M. She said she was given conflicting information as to the IP address used to
make the transfers and was told it was an IP address which had been used by her before.
Barclays also told Miss W that the payee  M  was set up on her account on 13th February
2020 when a debit for £1 left her account. The payee had been set up using Miss Ws
mobile banking app and her fingerprint. The payments made to M on 27th March were made
using Miss Ws online banking details.
Barclays carried out an investigation but subsequently said it was going to hold Miss W liable 
for the transfers.
In its final response to her in April 2020, Barclays said it hadnt been able to establish third
party access to Miss Ws account and the transfers had been made using Miss Ws genuine
device and online banking details. However, it accepted its service had been poor and
offered £210 to compensate for this.
Miss W also said she had been the victim of fraud on a previous occasion when funds to the
value of £350 were taken from her account. Barclays told us she had withdrawn this
complaint on 13th March 2020 and so it was never fully investigated.
Miss W wasnt happy with Barclays response. She wanted a full refund on her lost funds,
so she came to this service. She told us she couldnt have made the payments on 27th March 
as the IP address did not match where she lived. These transfers had also cleared the 
balance on the account, and she wouldnt have done that.
Miss W also referred us to a telephone call she had had with Barclays fraud department
when she was told that the device used to make the transfer from her account had also been
used to make transfers from other peoples accounts. She said this corroborated her claim
that she had been a victim of fraud.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he thought Miss W had
authorised the payments for the following reasons:
- he said there had been no evidence of Miss Ws bank card details being
Compromised
- Miss W had re-set her online banking details between M being set up as a payee in
February and the disputed transaction leaving in March. As Miss W said she had not
shared these details with anyone else, it must follow that she made the payments
- the payee had been set up using a device Miss W had used before for non-disputed
payments and was accessed using her fingerprint
- the device used to make the transfers had logged into Miss Ws account using 
online banking on several occasions since 5th March. Our investigator didnt think this 
was the typical behaviour of a fraudster who he said, would have withdrawn money 
from the account as soon as possible
Finally, in relation to the previous fraud claim of £350, our investigator relied on Barclays
system notes which confirmed the complaint had been withdrawn. He thought it was fair to
conclude that this was only done at Miss Ws request.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.  I arrived at a different outcome than 
the investigator and sent both parties my provisional decision upholding the complaint.
Barclays accepted this but Miss W made the following further submissions:
- she reminded me that Barclays had not provided her with a temporary credit whilst it 
investigated 
- she wanted Barclays to refund interest and charges she paid
- she wanted to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience this had caused 
and the toll it had taken on her health
Ive taken these into account when arriving at my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for Miss W to have authorised these transactions, she needed to have consented to
them being made as well as evidence being available to show they were authenticated.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated because Barclays has been able to show they
were made by someone correctly logging onto Miss Ws online banking.
The issue which doesnt appear to have been addressed by Barclays is whether Miss W
consented to these payments. Much has been made of the lack of evidence around the
compromise of Miss Ws secure details  but Barclays should know that the lack of evidence
of compromise is not evidence of consent.
The relevant regulations which cover Miss Ws complaint are the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). They say that if the evidence suggests Miss W made the
payments, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable. And I remind myself that its for Barclays to
prove she authorised these payments  not for Miss W to prove she did not.
The Regulations doesnt elaborate on what constitutes consent beyond saying that it must
be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and
its payment service provider and neither the PSRs 2017 nor the FCAs guidance on thePSRs provide a definition of consent.
I therefore think it is fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen. So, when I apply
this term to Miss Ws complaint, on balance, I dont think she consented for the following
reasons:
- the starting position is that Miss W says she did not make these payments. I have 
no reason to doubt what she says
- the IP address recorded when the transactions were made was different to the IP
address Miss Ws phone and banking app showed at about the same time
- the device used to make the transactions was not one Miss W had used before 
despite Barclays saying it was
- we know from the conversation Miss W had with the fraud team on 27th March 2020
that a third payment had also been attempted in the sum of £900. I dont think Miss
W would have attempted a payment knowing that it was going to be declined. I also
note there is no other reference to this in Barclays final response
- we also know from this conversation that the device used to make these 
transactions was also used to make transactions from other accounts too. Ive 
listened to the call from 27th March and the adviser certainly gave Miss W the 
impression that the activity was suspicious and thereby supported Miss Ws position. 
Again, Barclays has never addressed this point in its investigation.
Of course, there are some aspects of this complaint which remain unanswered. For
instance, why did Miss W set up M as a payee in February 2020 if she now claims she does
not know this person? Miss W also denies having been to cities in the UK where her
mobile banking app shows she has been.
So, Ive thought about these and what they mean for her complaint.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that they lead me to conclude that Miss W authorised these
payments. I must decide based on what I think is more likely to have happened here 
taking into account the relevant regulations and the circumstances of this complaint. And
again, I remind myself of the relevant test for authorisation and where this burden lays.
I dont think Miss W made or authorised these payments and so it follows, that Barclays
must refund them.
Ive thought about Miss Ws further submissions and Ive decided I wont be asking Barclays 
to do any more than refund the disputed transactions.  I think the offer of £210 already made 
is a fair one and when considering this, I take into account the fact that the evidence shows 
Miss W more than likely set up the payee for the transactions in February.
And I have seen no evidence from Miss W, despite the lengthy history of this complaint, to 
show she may have suffered a further loss in terms of charges.  The time to make those 
submissions has now passed unfortunately.
Putting things rightBarclays Bank UK Plc must refund £1800 to Miss W.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman