DRN-2885715
The complaint
Mr G complains that the loan he had from Bamboo Limited was unaffordable to him.
  
What happened
Mr G took out a fixed sum loan with Bamboo on 15 October 2018. He borrowed £5,000 and 
was due to repay £242.95 monthly for 60 months. He says that the loan was unaffordable to 
him and that his financial history should have shown he was not creditworthy at the time.
Bamboo says it asked Mr G for information about his circumstances, including his income 
and expenditure. It says it also used third party data and information from Mr Gs credit file to 
assess affordability. Bamboo says Mr G planned to consolidate some of his existing debts 
with the loan and that its calculations showed the repayments were affordable. It says Mr G 
has maintained his repayments, but it offered to waive the equivalent of six months 
repayments as a goodwill gesture.
Mr G did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that he wasnt 
satisfied that Bamboo had carried out proportionate checks but found it likely that, had it 
done so, it would have found the lending unsustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that 
Bamboo should refund any payments Mr G made above the principal (plus 8% statutory 
interest) or agree a suitable repayment plan for any remaining principal balance once all 
payments had been applied to it. He said it should also ensure that any associated negative 
information is removed from Mr Gs credit file.
Bamboo responded to say, in summary, that:
It had not seen the bank statements on which the adjudicator based his decision;
It considered Mr Gs overdraft to be relatively small when compared with his income;
The repayments were affordable, albeit tight, even using the additional information;
Mr G could have settled much of his credit card balance with the loan;
Bamboo couldnt be expected to know about Mr Gs loans from friends;
Mr G had been repaying the loan on time;
It was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr G and statistical data, and it 
was not presented with any information that would have prompted further questions.
Its a sub-prime lender and Mr Gs credit file showed well-managed accounts;
A recent credit check showed Mr Gs debt had reduced and there is no evidence that 
Bamboos lending decision had caused financial detriment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Bamboo lent to Mr G. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, I can see Bamboo asked Mr G about his income and 
housing costs and also completed a detailed credit check. Bamboo also says it used a third-
party data source for Mr Gs other expenditure and its calculations showed the loan was 
affordable. But Im not satisfied that Bamboos checks were reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances. I say that because:
The loan required significant monthly repayments for five years and Bamboo needed 
to check this was sustainable for Mr G;
I cant see Bamboo verified Mr Gs income, especially the £475 that he said was 
additional to his salary;
Mr G was already spending over 35% of his declared income on credit repayments, 
although I acknowledge he said the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation; 
Bamboo knew from Mr Gs credit file that he was making mostly the minimum 
repayments to his credit cards; 
Mr G had a default on his credit file, although it was from 2016 and had been settled 
three months before the loan application;
Bamboos credit check showed Mr G had a long history of using short-term lending.
Given the above, I find that Bamboo needed to fully understand Mr Gs financial 
circumstances, including verifying the information hed provided and assessing his actual 
expenditure. Although Bamboo had estimated Mr G had over £800 of disposable income, I 
find that was unlikely given the level of repayments to his credit cards and given that his 
overdraft remaining relatively unchanged over the previous eight months.
So Ive now had a look at Mr Gs bank statements to see what proportionate checks were 
likely to have shown:
Mr Gs monthly income (£3,045) was broadly in line with what hed declared, 
including the additional £475 that I can see crediting his account each month;
The £675 rental figure can also be verified in the bank statements;
Im satisfied that the figure Bamboo used for credit repayments (around £1,100) was 
a fair reflection of what could be seen in Mr Gs credit file and his bank statements;
Mr Gs other regular expenditure, including bills, food, travel, television, mobile phone 
and bank fees came to over £700. This compares with a figure of around £480 which 
Bamboo used in its affordability calculation;
There is evidence that Mr G was also repaying money hed borrowed from friends or 
family members as he was making two regular monthly payments to loan accounts 
for a combined figure of £635;
Mr G was only in credit for less than a week after he received his salary each month;
So I find that Mr Gs expenditure actually exceeded his income in the months leading up to 
the Bamboo loan.I accept Bamboo says the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation, and I can see Mr G 
did, in fact, repay one of the personal loans, one of his three unsecured loans and a credit 
card. This would have reduced his monthly credit expenditure going forwards by about £360, 
but it still didnt make the new repayment of almost £243 per month sustainable for a five-
year term.
Therefore, Im satisfied Mr Gs bank statements showed he was already struggling to 
manage his money and that even if some of his outstanding debt was repaid with the loan, 
his monthly commitments still meant the repayments were likely to be unsustainable for five 
years.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, I dont consider Bamboo made a 
fair lending decision, although I cant conclude it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other 
way. So I find further lending was unaffordable to Mr G and Bamboo was irresponsible to 
lend to him.
  
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bamboo Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr G;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the loan, 
up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman