DRN-1733669
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mrs M took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high-street store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided protection for Mrs M's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% 
of the outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mrs M returned to 
work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs 
M owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs M was employed, and she said she was entitled to six months' full 
sick pay. She told us she had a few thousand pounds in savings she could've used to make 
her repayments and she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs M paid around £240 for PPI in total during the lifetime of the 
account.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mrs M chose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs M's case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mrs M was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mrs M have a choice about PPI?
did she agree to take it out? I think AXA made it clear that Mrs M didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs M's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI. And in Mrs M's case she signed this section. If Mrs M didn't want to take out PPI 
she could've left this section blank. By having to give her signature on the form and in the 
way it was required, I'm not persuaded she would've done so without knowing broadly what 
she was signing for - notwithstanding the fact that she might not have understood all that she 
needed to know about it.
I can see Mrs M says the handwriting on the application isn't hers. And that doesn't surprise 
me given the sale took place in-store - it was likely completed by a staff member. I don't 
think this was unfair. But ultimately Mrs M signed the application, so overall I think Mrs 
M chose and agreed to take out PPI. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs M to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable 
for Mrs M. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, 
so she could make an informed decision about it.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs 
M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale 
took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation with Mrs M about PPI.
But as I found above, Mrs M chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking 
out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs M PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have 
to pay back to Mrs M what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she's said about not 
understanding why her claim isn't being met when there's evidence she paid for 
PPI; that she wasn't off sick much - her health was excellent; and that she always 
kept savings set aside. But these points dont change my decision.
The word claim is perhaps misleading in the context of a PPI mis-sale complaint - it is a 
complaint and not a claim, so there's no automatic right to compensation. As I've explained 
above, I've considered what likely happened at the time of the sale alongside Mrs M's 
circumstances at the time. And for the reasons I've detailed above, I don't think Mrs M would've arrived at a different decision about PPI had AXA explained things more clearly. 
This means I don't think she's lost out - AXA doesn't need to pay back to Mrs M what she 
paid for PPI.  
In relation to Mrs M's good health - the purpose of insurance is to protect against the insured 
risks becoming a reality in the future. The absence of previous ill health is not in my view an 
indicator of the policy's inappropriateness for Mrs M.
Finally, I've thought about Mrs M's existing provision, including the savings she said she had 
at the time of the sale and how she could've used these to make her payments. But the 
policy would've paid out in addition to Mrs M's existing means - it also had the potential to 
clear the outstanding balance in full. So in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition, I 
think she'd have thought the policy still worked for her and would've gone ahead 
notwithstanding her existing means had things happened as they should have.
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman