DRN-2522867
The complaint
Mr H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined his claim on his home insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr H had home insurance with Allianz for some properties he rents out. In February 2020 
one of his tenants reported to him that water was entering one of the properties through the 
roof. They said it had started after a storm.
Mr H made a claim on his insurance. Allianz initially assessed photos of the roof and spoke 
to Mr H. However it decided that an inspection would be necessary to assess the cause of 
the damage.
Allianz arranged for a drone survey of the roof to be carried out. After the survey its loss 
adjuster put together a report which concluded the flat roof was showing signs of 
deterioration and wear and tear. It also said that from viewing weather reports there hadnt 
been a storm in the days leading up to the damage. 
Based on this report Allianz declined Mr Hs claim as it says the damage was most likely due 
to wear and tear which wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He said a storm had occurred around the 15 and 16 of 
February, which is when the damage had been caused. And not around the 22 February 
when he made the claim. He made a complaint to Allianz.
Allianz didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had also checked the dates of the damage and 
wind speeds hadnt reached the level required in order to say there had been a storm. So it 
was satisfied that the damage was more likely to have been caused by wear and tear and 
was excluded from cover.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she had independently 
checked the weather reports from the time and was satisfied that there was no weather that 
would amount to a storm in the days leading up to the damage. Further she said she was 
satisfied that from looking at the pictures provided, that the roof had deteriorated due to wear 
and tear. So she thought Allianz were fair to decline the claim. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said there had been reports that Storm Dennis was coming before the 
weekend when the damage was caused, so didnt agree that there wasnt a storm. He asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H claimed for damage to his property that he believed was caused by a storm. Allianz 
has said that it doesnt think the damage was caused by a storm, but instead was due to 
wear and tear. So I need to decide if it has fairly declined his claim on this basis.
When deciding whether an insurer acted fairly by declining a claim for storm damage, we 
consider three questions. Firstly, whether there is evidence there were storm conditions at 
the time the damage was caused. Next, whether the damage is consistent with storm 
damage and lastly whether the storm was the main reason for the damage. If were satisfied 
that the answer to all three questions is yes then we would say the insurer wasnt fair to 
decline the claim under storm cover.
To consider the first question, I have looked at weather reports in the days leading up to the 
damage. Mr H has said this was around 15 February, but isnt certain of the exact date. So 
Ive checked reports from all the days of the week leading up to this date and the day itself. 
Although there were stronger winds reported in the area of the property on 14 February, 
these only reached around 40mph. At this service we would usually only consider speeds 
over 47mph to constitute a storm.
Mr H has said there were weather warnings in place at the time due to Storm Dennis which 
was due to reach the UK over that weekend. I can see that the weekend when the damage 
happened there were warnings of bad weather and this was when Storm Dennis was 
reported in the UK. So while we wouldnt usually consider the wind speeds great enough to 
constitute a storm, I agree there was a period of bad weather forecast over that weekend. 
And Storm Dennis was widely reported as causing heavy rain and wind. So I accept there 
was weather around the time of the damage that may have constituted a storm. 
However, even if I accept that there was a storm around the time the damage was caused, I 
still need to be satisfied that the answer to the next two questions is yes. And while I accept 
that water ingress due to damage to a flat roof is consistent with damage caused by heavy 
rain, from looking at the evidence, I dont agree that a one off storm was the main cause of 
the damage.
The photos provided by both Mr H and Allianz show that the surface of the roof is uneven. 
The loss adjuster states in his report that this has been caused by a failure of the roof 
timbers due to water damage over time. And I agree there appears to some sagging of the 
roof that is consistent with water building up on it.
Further, the report states there is evidence of previous repairs to the roof in a number of 
places, which I can also see in the photos. So it seems there had been previous problems 
with the roof.
So when I consider all of these factors, I think the damage is more consistent with wear and 
tear caused over time, rather than being caused by a one off storm event.
Because of this, I dont think Allianz has acted unfairly by declining Mr Hs claim under the 
storm cover. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman