DRN-1645508
The complaint
Mr Z and Mrs Z have complained about monthly fees that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
charged them for a packaged bank account called a First Additions account, and for a 
package of potential benefits, called a Tech Pack, which it added to a fee-free account. 
Mr Z and Mrs Z think that Barclays mis-sold both the First Additions account and the Tech 
Pack to them and that it should refund them all the fees they paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Barclays has checked its records for Mr Z and Mrs Z and has told us that it sold them the 
First Additions during July 2006 and then switched them to a fee-free account in December 
2015. Its records show that it added the Tech Pack at the same time as it switched their 
account. I think that Barclays records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them 
to be correct. 
When Mr Z and Mrs Z complained directly to Barclays, it agreed that it had mis-sold them 
the First Additions account and paid them some compensation, but it thought it had treated 
them fairly with the Tech Pack. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Z and Mrs Zs complaint. The adjudicator 
thought that the compensation Barclays had paid to Mr Z and Mrs Z for mis-selling them the 
First Additions account was fair and that it hadnt mis-sold them the Tech Pack.
.
Mr Z and Mrs Z didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Z and Mrs Zs 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr Z and Mrs Z and Barclays have told us or sent 
us about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as Barclays has already agreed it mis-sold the First Additions account to Mr Z and 
Mrs Z, for that account I have only looked at the compensation it paid to see if was fair, I 
havent considered anything about the sale itself.
When we uphold a complaint that a business mis-sold a packaged bank account, we 
normally tell the business to refund the monthly fees and to add simple interest at the rate of 
8% per year from the time the consumer paid the fee until the time of the refund. I have seen 
a summary of how Barclays worked out the compensation it paid to Mr Z and Mrs Z. It 
seems to have followed our approach and I understand that it has already paid this 
compensation. I think this was fair.
Turning now to the way Barclays sold the Tech Pack to Mr Z and Mrs Z.
Around 2015 to 2016, for commercial reasons, Barclays decided to withdraw the First 
Additions account from its customers. Along with other banks, Barclays is allowed to make 
changes like this, but has to treat its customers fairly by giving them notice, telling them what 
is happening and giving them reasonable choices. Barclays has said it did this for Mr Z and 
Mrs Z. To support its case, it has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to them. 
 .
Barclays sent the first letter to Mr Z and Mrs Z during September 2015. The letter told Mr Z 
and Mrs Z that it intended to switch them to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack. It 
told them how much the pack would cost and described in outline the features it would 
provide. It explained that some features of the First Additions account would cease and 
pointed out that there would be a price increase. It also told Mr Z and Mrs Z that they could 
opt out of the Tech Pack and that if they did so their account would become a Barclays 
Bank Account.with no monthly fee.... It described how they could opt out either by visiting 
one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr Z and Mrs Z during December 2015. This letter told Mr 
Z and Mrs Z that Barclays had changed their account and that it would start to charge them 
for the Tech Pack. It also told them that they could remove the pack from their account at 
any time and so have a fee-free account.
Both letters seem to have been correctly addressed and I think that in sending them 
Barclays met its obligations to Mr Z and Mrs Z. 
Mr Z and Mrs Z have said that if Barclays had never sold them the First Additions account, 
they may well have had had a fee-free account throughout, so despite the two letters they 
still think that Barclays treated them unfairly when it added the Tech Pack to their account. I 
understand the point they are making. However, Barclays has already accepted its mistakes 
with the First Additions account and has compensated Mr Z and Mrs Z fairly. And taken 
together, the two letters gave Mr Z and Mrs Z a clear choice to switch to a fee-free account 
and explained how they could do so. Irrespective of Barclays earlier mistakes, I think this 
was fair. 
Mr Z and Mrs Z have also told us that English is not their first language, and that Barclays 
did not provide a translation for them and so treated them unfairly as they didnt understand 
everything it said. Im not sure of the exact level of Mr Z and Mrs Zs English, but I 
understand that they have lived in the UK since around 2006. I dont think Barclays had a 
sufficient reason to think that Mr Z and Mrs Z wouldnt be able to understand its letters. 
So, in summary, I think that Barclays has already compensated Mr Z and Mrs Z fairly for 
mis-selling them the First Additions account and behaved reasonably when it switched them 
to a fee-free account with a chargeable Tech Pack.
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Z and Mrs Zs complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Steve TownsleyOmbudsman