DRN-2695461
The complaint
Mr H complains about the customer service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
when he visited a branch. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr H visited a Nationwide branch. He says there was a queue outside the 
branch, so he asked the staff to provide him with a chair because he has a medical condition 
which means he cant stand for long period of time. 
He says staff had accommodated this request in a previous visit, but on this occasion his 
request was denied. Mr H thought hed been treated unfairly so he complained. 
Nationwide responded to say it didnt agree it had treated Mr H unfairly. It acknowledged that 
Mr H had been able to use a seat on a previous visit, but it said this couldnt be guaranteed 
every time Mr H visited the branch. It said this is because the branch Mr H visited is small 
and has busy periods. And it needed to limit the number of people in branch at any one time 
because of the pandemic - which was why there was a queue outside. It added that if a chair 
was provided, staff would be required to clean it after use when other customers were still 
waiting to be served.  
It also said staff suggested to Mr H alternative times of the day to visit the branch  when it 
was less busy and waiting times were shorter. And that it told him about alternative ways of 
doing his banking rather than visiting a branch during the unprecedented times. 
Mr H didnt think Nationwide had resolved his complaint fairly. So, he brought the complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators looked into the matter but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. She concluded - in summary, that considering the consequences of the pandemic 
on daily lives, Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong by not offering Mr H a chair. 
Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained that because of the pandemic it had to limit the number of people 
in the branch. This was common across the industry and in-line with government guidelines. 
So, I dont think it was wrong for Nationwide to ask people to wait outside until there was 
space in the branch. 
Its not in dispute that Mr H was able to use a chair on a previous visit. And had Mr Hs visit 
been during more normal times, I have no reason to think Nationwide would have refused 
his request on this occasion. But given the wider circumstances at the time and the social 
distancing rules that all businesses had been asked to follow, I dont think that Nationwide 
offering Mr H a chair during one visit meant it had to offer him a chair every visit. I think this 
depends on the situation at the time and whether there was space in the branch to enable 
the staff and customers to keep to the social distancing rules. 
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling on this matter but given there was a queue outside 
the branch, I think its most likely the branch was at capacity inside at the time of this 
particular visit. 
I can see Mr H has said that he feels Nationwide discriminated against him because of his 
medical condition. And he has provided evidence to show the condition he suffers from and 
the impact this has on him. So, I can understand why Mr H feels this way. 
But having thought about this carefully, I dont think Nationwide has acted incorrectly here. 
As the investigator explained, all businesses  including Nationwide, have had to adapt due 
to the pandemic and have implemented several policies to safeguard both their employees 
and customers health and so they could stay open for business. And these policies apply to 
all customers, not just Mr H. 
I understand that Nationwide provided information about times of the day when the branch 
was less busy  so Mr H could avoid queuing. And suggested other alternative ways of 
banking to avoid the need to visit the branch altogether. I appreciate its Mr Hs preference to 
visit a branch  but, given the wider circumstances, I think the action Nationwide took was 
reasonable. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) issued guidance to financial 
businesses during the pandemic. The most recent update to the guidance prior to Mr Hs 
visit explained that banking services were unlikely to return to normal immediately and 
businesses should follow government guidance and balance the needs of their customers 
with the safety and welfare of their staff. It also encouraged consumers to continue to use 
alternatives to branches. And I think Nationwide acted within those guidelines. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this decision, but I hope that it helps to know that 
someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns. Nationwide has said it will 
do its upmost to accommodate any similar requests in the future  subject to the situation at 
the time. And I cant fairly require it to do any more than that.     
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman