DRN-3208051
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society changed the way he received his monthly 
statements without his consent  and that they did this without giving him fair and 
reasonable notice in advance. 
What happened
Mr B has told us that hes been a Nationwide customer for many years. In March 2021, his 
monthly statement included a letter telling him that theyd be going paperless from the 
following month. The letter said hed need to log into internet banking or get in touch with 
them if he wanted to change back to paper communications.
Mr Bs complained to Nationwide that he shouldnt have to take action to revert back to 
receiving paper statements, when he hadnt requested a change in the first place. He said 
he didnt think they had the right to make these changes, because they werent mentioned in 
the account terms and conditions.
But Nationwide said they had the right to do this. They explained that theyd taken a 
business decision to move all digitally active customers to paperless communications and 
that theyd given Mr B advance notice of this with his statement. They said customers can 
opt back in to receiving paper communications at any time. They felt theyd given Mr B 
enough notice to allow him to do this before his next statement was due. They noted that his 
communication preferences had been changed back when he contacted them to complain. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr B unfairly. He said the account terms 
and conditions explain that a monthly statement will be sent  and that customers can 
normally choose whether to receive this through the internet bank or post. He didnt think 
Nationwides terms prevented them making a change to Mr Bs communication preferences, 
as long as they offered the option to switch back. 
The investigator noted that Nationwide had notified Mr B of this change with his statement 
dated 27 March 2021  and that Mr B had received this by the time he complained to them 
on 5 April 2021. So, he was satisfied that Nationwide had allowed a reasonable amount of 
time for Mr B to opt back in to paper communications before his next statement was due. 
Mr B disagreed. He didnt consider it fair or reasonable for Nationwide to change his 
communication preferences without his consent, before hed received notification that theyd 
done this. He said hed already chosen how hed like to receive his statements  and that 
Nationwides terms and conditions state that this is his choice, not theirs. He feels it to be 
irrelevant that he was given the choice to switch back, because he shouldnt have had to do 
so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B feels very strongly about his right to choose his communication 
preferences. I want to assure him that Ive given careful thought to the points hes raised. But 
having done that, I cant say Nationwide have treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably. Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide say that, in todays fast-paced world, more and more people are opting to 
receive digital communications. And that, to meet the evolving expectations of their 
customers, theyve started implementing changes in the way they communicate. But Mr B 
feels it was wrong for them to interfere with his recorded preferences without his consent. 
Nationwide are entitled to review and update their business decisions as to what theyll use 
as their default method of communication with customers - thats not something I can 
comment on. But Ive considered whether they implemented their decision in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
As Mr B quite rightly points out, Nationwides terms and conditions set out the customers 
right to choose how they receive their account statements. They say:
Unless the additional conditions of your account say otherwise, you can normally choose 
whether to receive statements:
a) through the internet bank (known as paperless statements); or 
b) by post.
I see nothing in their terms and conditions that would prevent Nationwide changing their 
default customer communication preference to electronic - so long as the customers right to 
choose isnt taken away. 
Nationwide have provided a copy of the letter Mr B received with his March 2021 statement. 
Their letter said that, as Mr B had been identified as someone who regularly uses their 
internet banking facility, theyd be switching him to paperless communications in a months 
time. And that, if he wasnt happy with this, he could let them know by updating his 
preferences. 
I appreciate that Mr B may have found it frustrating to have to contact Nationwide when his 
communication preferences hadnt in fact changed. But I dont consider it unfair or 
unreasonable for a business to ask customers to review and update their communication 
preferences from time to time. So I dont find Nationwide to have done anything wrong here. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr B was given enough notice of the change. The evidence 
Ive seen shows he received the notification with his statement dated 27 March 2021. 
Nationwide have said that the change was implemented the day after that statement was 
produced. I can see Mr B feels very strongly that this shouldnt have happened before hed 
received the notification through the post. 
I havent seen anything confirming the exact date on which Mr B received notification of the 
change. Hes told us that he contacted Nationwide to complain about this on 5 April 2021  
and Nationwide have confirmed that his communication preferences were changed back to 
paper. As theyd produced a statement for Mr B on 27 March 2021, Id expect the next one 
to be produced a month later. Im satisfied that Mr B had enough time to ask for his 
preferences to be changed back to paper well in advance of his next statement being due. I 
havent seen any suggestion that he missed out on correspondence as a result of this 
change. So, I cant say Nationwide have treated him unfairly. 
My final decisionI appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about this matter. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman