DRN-3080771
The complaint
Mr R says ReAssure Limited didnt act fairly when it rejected part of his claim for a waiver of 
payment of his pension premiums, as provided for in his policy.
What happened
Mr R was self-employed as a consultant. He had a personal pension into which he paid 
regular premiums. His policy had a waiver of premium benefit. This meant if hed become 
unable to work, his payments would be covered after the first six months of his incapacity.
Mr R had to undergo surgery in April 2015, but things didnt go well. Unfortunately, he had to 
undergo life-changing surgery in July 2015. There followed an extended period of 
consultations, treatments and rehabilitation. He was unable to return to work in the same 
capacity.
Mr R hadnt realised that his pension policy provided for a waiver of premiums until he read 
policy documents hed been sent by ReAssure in 2019. He made a retrospective claim in 
March 2019. This covered the period from April 2015 until March 2018. He said that from 
April 2018 hed been able to make a phased return to work.
ReAssure accepted part of Mr Rs claim in May 2019. It said it would refund around £2050 of 
the premiums hed paid, covering the period from October 2015 until March 2016. It said it 
wouldnt pay the balance of his claim from this point onwards because the medical notes it 
had received indicated hed begun to work again.
Mr R was unhappy with ReAssures decision. He provided evidence from his occupational 
therapist dated December 2017. He said this highlighted his physical limitations and his state 
of mind during the period in question. The letter had been used in support of his claim for a 
personal independence payment (PIP). He told the Investigator hed been unable to work 
until April 2018.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He thought ReAssure had dealt with his 
claim fairly in light of the available information. Mr R disagreed and so his case has been 
passed to me to review and to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Rs pension plan  the contract between 
him and ReAssure. Of relevance here are the provisions related to the waiver of premium 
feature. The following extracts from the policy are important to my consideration:
(a) In this section the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below.
Incapacity means the total inability of the Policyholder to follow his occupationdue to 
sickness or accident while not following any other occupation.
Period of Waiver means a period of continuous incapacity excluding the initial six months of 
such incapacity. The period ceases on the earliest of the following: 
(i) the end of the incapacity; 
(ii) the failure of the Policyholder to supply such evidence of continued incapacity 
as [ReAssure] may require
(e) Written notice of incapacity must be received by [ReAssure] within a period of two 
calendar months of its commencement. If notice is received after this period the 
incapacityshall be deemed to have commenced two calendar months prior to the date of 
the receipt of notice.
(f) Before, during and at the end of the period of waiver the policyholder shall:
(i) furnish at his own expense all certificates, evidence and information that 
[ReAssure] may require, and 
(iii) undergo such medical examination(s) as the society may require.
The Investigator spoke to Mr R when looking into his case. He said that he hadnt been in a 
physical or mental state to be able to do any work until April 2018. He said that hed been 
speaking to a counsellor in 2016 about the mental effects of the procedure hed undergone, 
whilst receiving physical treatment and rehabilitation.
ReAssure said it appreciated Mr R had undergone life-changing surgery and that this had a 
significant impact on his functional abilities. But as his claim had been submitted 
retrospectively it was only able to draw on historical medical evidence in trying to understand 
his working capabilities for the period in question.
ReAssure noted two letters from the medical rehabilitation team during 2016 which indicated 
Mr R had started to work again.
Extract from letter dated March 2016:
[Mr R] reports he had now gone back to work but does most of the work from home. He is 
managing most activities of daily living; however, occasionally he needs help from his 
familyHe has also started driving and drives confidently.
Extract from letter dated June 2016:
[Mr R] continues to work in an office and said he is unable to do field work and was 
wondering what kind of impact this was going to have on his job.
Mr R says he wasnt aware of the medical notes ReAssure has relied on and that these dont 
paint an accurate picture of his situation. In his last submission to this Service in September, he said he would be making contact with the doctor who had produced the notes to 
understand if he would be willing to reconsider the wording he used in his letters. Mr R 
hasnt provided any further information in this regard.
Ive reviewed the supporting evidence Mr R provided from his occupational therapist dated 
December 2017, which was in support of his PIP claim. As the Investigator acknowledged, 
this does paint a different picture of Mr Rs progress compared to the medical notes from 
April and June 2016. But it doesnt cover his capability to undertake work.
Mr R hasnt been able to provide any additional evidence that hed been unable to work or 
wasnt working, in any capacity, between April 2016 and March 2018. So, for example, 
records relating to self-assessment tax returns or unemployment benefit claims.
Ive thought about ReAssures approach to Mr Rs case. It couldve tried to rely on the policy 
terms to have rejected his claim outright, because it had been made late. Instead it treated 
him fairly by considering his claim and refunding some of his premiums. I think this was the 
right approach.
So, considering all the information available, I think it would be unreasonable for me to 
require ReAssure to pay the element of Mr Rs claim that it rejected. I say this because a 
medical professional on two separate occasions in 2016 recorded that Mr R was working. 
Ive put most weight on this evidence contemporaneous with the events complained about.
I recognise Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope he can understand why 
Ive arrived at the conclusion I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman