DRN-2521585
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs T are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined a claim under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs T returned to their home to find they had been burgled and a large amount of 
jewellery had been stolen. They contacted esure to make a claim. esure immediately 
declined the claim, as force and violence hadnt been used to gain entry to Mr L and Mrs Ts 
home, which was a requirement under the terms and conditions of the policy.
When Mr L and Mrs T complained to esure, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
So, Mr L and Mrs T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said that although he thought force had been used to gain entry, there was no evidence 
of violence. On that basis, he said it was reasonable for esure to decline the claim.
As Mr L and Mrs T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Mrs Ts claim was declined by esure because of an exclusion in the Theft or 
attempted theft part of the policy that said:
We will not pay for loss or damage to Your Contents:

caused while You and Your Household are away from the Home unless violence and force is 
used to enter or leave Your Buildings
I dont think that is an unusual exclusion in a policy. Its purpose is to exclude situations such 
as where a policyholder has left their home unlocked or other basic security measures 
havent been taken. Im aware that Mr L and Mrs T have said that as they had insurance in 
place that they think the claim should be covered regardless of this exclusion. However, an 
insurer is entitled to limit the risks its prepared to cover, which is what esure did through this 
exclusion. 
So, Ive considered whether I think it was reasonable for esure to decline the claim on the 
basis that this exclusion applied.
When Mr L and Mrs T described what happened, they said that no-one was in the house 
when thieves gained entry by prising open a window. They said there was no damage to the 
window or the surround. The thieves had then stolen a large amount of jewellery from under 
a bed. Based on that description, although that does suggest that force was used to gain 
entry, in my view, it doesnt show that violence was used.
Ive also read the police report about what happened. This said:
Unknown offender has entered via insecure rear ground floor kitchen window. Appear to 
have locked the front door allowing offender to conduct untidy search

Owners have been out since 10:00am this morning and just arrived home to find the kitchen 
window insecure.

The occupants were out at the time and entry was gained from the rear of the property. Both 
alley gates were locked and there was no CCTV.
So, based on the police report, I think it is unclear whether force was used, but even if I 
thought it more likely than not was used, there is no evidence of violence being used. For 
esure to accept the claim, both force and violence had to be used to gain entry to the 
property while no-one was in the home. Based on the descriptions of what happened, Im 
satisfied that there isnt evidence to show that this was the case. So, I think it was 
reasonable for esure to decline the claim.
Although Im aware that this will disappoint Mr L and Mrs T, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require esure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman