DRN-2503618
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with Kbis Limiteds (Kbis) decision to decline cover for her pet insurance 
claims. Mrs P wants Kbis to pay her claims as well as some payment towards the costs she 
is still incurring for her pet. 
What happened
Mrs P took out pet insurance for her horse in February 2019. The policy covered vet fees as 
well as permanent loss of use of her horse. In August, Mrs Ps horse presented lameness 
and then later, after being examined by a vet, it was determined the horses injuries were 
severe and no treatment or surgery was possible. The vet decided that her horse couldnt 
continue as a showjumper and supported a loss of use claim. 
Mrs P made two separate claims to Kbis in September; one was for vet fees she had 
incurred and another for loss of use. Kbis declined both claims on the basis they related to a 
pre-existing condition which was subject to a policy exclusion. Mrs P complained to Kbis and 
they responded to say they agreed with the decision to decline and didnt uphold the 
complaint.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs P. She thought that Kbis hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mrs Ps claim. Mrs P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I can see that an insurance certificate was issued to Mrs P which sets out further documents 
required by Kbis. This says, they require a proposal form and a passed five stage veterinary 
certificate in order to provide full cover. Mrs P submitted a proposal form and, attached to 
this, was the veterinary certificate. The certificate noted the following about Mrs Ps horse: 
Front feet: lack of heel support and flat sole. Needs regular good farriery. Trimming 
and shoeing to improve heel growth and to slightly increase the angle of the pedal 
bone will be beneficial especially in the left fore. Very sound when lunged on a small 
circle on the gravel indicating that he is very sound in these front feet currently.   
Mrs Ps insurance certificate says, under the heading Exclusions; This policy will not cover 
any accidents, sicknesses or diseases which occurred or were present before the start date 
of this insurance policy. And, because there was a condition noted in the veterinary 
certificate, Kbis applied a policy endorsement which says:
Excluding all losses arising directly or indirectly from foot imbalance  this exclusion 
maybe reviewed in 6 months time subject to a farrier report confirming adequate 
farriery has been carried out as advised on the vetting certificate and the horse has 
remained sound.  
This policy endorsement document says the underwriters have applied these exclusions 
because of information Mrs P has provided to Kbis and will apply to the policy from the start 
date shown on the insurance certificate.  
The claim submitted by Mrs P was for lame right fore. I can see there is an exclusion in 
place and Kbis declined to cover Mrs Ps claims on the basis of this exclusion. So, Ive 
looked into whether Kbiss decision is fair and reasonable. 
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the claim, and thats 
what Kbis did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Kbis to rely on the 
experts comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. I have seen a report prepared 
by the expert  who Ill refer to as expert S. In preparing the report, expert S reviewed clinical 
records and also spoke with the attending vet and Mrs P. Expert S says: 
The issues now affecting [Mrs Ps horse], ie DDFT strain, Navicular disease and 
coffin joint arthritis are well recognised as being in large part due to poor foot 
balance, as a result of this they are subject to the exclusion applying to the policy.   
Mrs P raises concerns about the findings, which include evidence not considered by expert 
S. Mrs P provides further evidence and the matter is reviewed again by expert S who 
produces a further report. Expert S says hes considered the further information but this 
doesnt lead him to change the conclusions of his previous report. Mrs P appeals this 
decision and provides a report from a vet who says, in their professional opinion, the 
changes identified in Mrs Ps horse are not directly correlated to foot imbalance. And, the vet 
says it would be unfair to correlate the marked changes seen in the horse directly to foot 
imbalance.
Following this, Kbis appoint another expert  who Ill refer to as expert N. Kbis supply expert 
N with the file which includes the reports produced by expert S and also the recent report 
from the vet and ask for an opinion. Expert N produces a report which says he agrees with 
the vets view that its not possible to state with certainty that the horses foot balance directly 
contributed to the development of lameness. Expert N also says, with regard to whether 
lameness could indirectly be caused by the horses foot balance, then hes in agreement 
with expert S in that horses with low heel conformation are over-represented when 
compared with horses with a more normal foot conformation when it comes to palmar foot 
pain. Expert N says palmer foot pain is a term used to describe a group of conditions which 
occur in the palmar part of the foot including conditions of the navicular bone and deep 
digital flexor tendon as in this case. 
The endorsement in Mrs Ps policy relates to losses arising directly or indirectly from foot 
imbalance. And, I cant see from the reports from the two experts and the vet, that both 
direct and indirect causes have been ruled out. So, taking this into account, I cant say Kbis 
have acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ps claims. Theyve relied on an independent experts 
opinion which has taken into consideration all material and relevant information to arrive at a 
view. And, when presented with further information from a vet, Kbis have sought the opinion 
of a separate independent expert. I cant therefore say that Kbis have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
I have noted Mrs Ps comments about her horses condition and why she feels the exclusion 
shouldnt apply. My role is to decide whether Kbis have acted fairly and reasonably. I think 
Kbis have taken fair and reasonable steps to consider Mrs Ps claims and reached a decision based on expert opinion. And, given that I havent seen any evidence to persuade 
me there has been an error by Kbis, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand Mrs P says she never received the policy endorsement which Kbis sent by 
email and post. Kbis have provided a copy of the email sent to Mrs P in March 2019 
attaching the policy endorsement. I have compared the email to other emails sent to Mrs P  
which have been received, and the email address is the same. Kbis have also provided a 
copy of the endorsement which was sent by post and this is addressed correctly. It is very 
unfortunate if neither of these reached Mrs P but I cant say there has been an error here by 
Kbis. They have taken reasonable steps to notify Mrs P of the endorsement. Kbis have also 
provided system notes which show the endorsement was recorded in March 2019. So, from 
the information I have seen, I believe the endorsement was made in March 2019 and this 
was sent to Mrs P by email and post. 
I can see our investigator has said Kbis cant be held responsible if the endorsement sent by 
post went missing. Mrs P says, if this is the case, then she shouldnt be made to suffer any 
losses for this. I have taken this into account, but I have to consider whether there have 
been any errors by Kbis. And, from the information Ive seen, Kbis have taken reasonable 
steps to notify Mrs P of the endorsement. In relation to the email, I note Mrs Ps concerns 
about what she feels are two different versions of the March 2019 email. I can see one 
version has single quotation marks either side of Mrs Ps email address and the other 
doesnt. But I believe this might well be down to one version showing the original email had 
been forwarded from one Kbis member of staff to another, and the recipient then printing this 
from their computer. That appears to be the case here as the recipients name is at the top 
of the printed document suggesting they have printed it. And, the other version without the 
single quotation marks appears to have been printed off by the member of staff who sent the 
March 2019 email. Again, this member of staffs name appears at the top of the page 
suggesting they printed this from their computer. The appearance of the quotation marks 
might well be down to the email having been forwarded. Ive looked at both versions and the 
content is the same and nothing I have seen suggests the email has been edited in any way.        
       
Mrs P has my sympathy as I can see from her correspondence this has been a very 
upsetting event for her. My role is to decide whether Kbis have acted fairly and reasonably. 
And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman