DRN-3757415
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unreasonably
delayed providing an outcome on its business interruption insurance claim.
Ms S, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to QEL will include anything done by its agents who handled 
the claim.
What happened
L held business interruption insurance with QEL. L claimed on its policy on 24 March 2020
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the
pandemic.
On 3 June 2020, L complained to QEL as it hadnt been given an answer on its claim. L
thought QEL was taking too long and hadnt kept it reasonably updated about what was
going on.
QEL provided a timeline of their actions since being notified of the claim. They said they had
provided an outcome on the claim on 15 June 2020 and had progressed the claim
throughout the time it had been with them. QEL didnt think they had caused unreasonable
delays, although they accepted L hadnt been kept updated for the first month.
Unhappy with QELs response, L brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt
think QEL had caused unreasonable delays.
L remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 September 2022 where I explained 
why I didnt intend to require QEL to do anything further. 
In that decision I said I would only be considering delays up to the point QEL provided L with 
an answer on its claim on 15 June 2020 and that a complaint about the outcome of the claim 
or any further delays would be dealt with separately. 
I said that when dealing with a claim QEL is required to do so promptly. I said that while QEL 
took longer than L would have liked, I didnt think it was unreasonable given the 
circumstances and could see that QELs claims handlers had tried to progress the complaint. 
I did, however, recognise that QEL accepted that they didnt keep L updated for around a 
month and during that time L chased for updates. I said that while QEL would have been 
busy at that time, it would have been fair and reasonable for them to keep L better updated. 
QEL had apologised for that and I thought that was a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances. That was because L is a limited company, and while the lack of updates 
would have been frustrating for Ms S, I can only consider the impact on L. And I hadnt seen 
enough to persuade me that L had experienced sufficient inconvenience to warrant financial 
compensation. 
L responded to my provisional decision to say that it was disappointed by the decision, given 
that the delays and service caused significant uncertainty. QEL didnt respond by the 
required date.
Having considered Ls points, I sent an email to L and QEL on 31 October 2022 to let them 
know that I now agreed with L that QEL had taken longer than they should have done to 
provide an outcome on the claim. However, given that Ls claim had been declined by QEL, I 
hadnt seen enough evidence of inconvenience to decide that the delay had caused 
sufficient inconvenience to award compensation for. 
Neither L nor QEL provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further comments to change my mind, I see no reason to depart from my 
findings set out above and therefore Im not going to require QEL to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman