DRN-2921139
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) used the redress 
from the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he took with his credit card 
(account number ending 5181).
What happened
Mr B had three separate accounts with NWB  a loan, an overdraft and a credit card. In 
December 2004 Mr B defaulted on his accounts and entered into a debt management plan 
(DMP) via a third party. NWB passed Mr Bs debt to a debt collection agency and payments 
were made between March 2005 and March 2010 at which point NWB took the debt back. 
Mr B made a complaint in August 2019 about the mis-sale of PPI on his credit card account. 
The complaint was upheld and NWB offered redress of £1,197.46. Mr B accepted the offer 
and signed the acceptance form in July 2020. When Mr B chased for the payment, he was 
informed that NWB had used the redress to offset against an outstanding balance on his 
credit card account. And there remained an outstanding balance of £1,503.09 after the 
offset.
Our adjudicator who looked at the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. NWB was 
entitled to offset the redress paid against an outstanding balance. NWB had provided 
evidence to show the credit card debt reductions from between 2005 and 2010 and the 
account could be identified on the list of Mr Bs creditors.
Mr B was unhappy with this. He wasnt aware he had an outstanding balance on his credit 
card account. All payments on his debts were made on his behalf by the third party. He 
wasnt happy that NWB hadnt told him about the transfer of his accounts in 2010. He didnt 
think it was right for the redress to be used to offset against the debt (about which he wasnt 
informed prior to it being offset)  it was a statute barred debt and says he should have been 
told of this before he agreed to NWBs offer. He didnt agree with the amount of debt NWB 
referred to. He highlighted the three NWB debts on the original List of Creditors against his 
DMP statement. He was also not happy with the inconsistent way NWB charged interest on 
accounts in financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs awareness of the outstanding debt
In response to the adjudicator Mr B reiterated that the main point of his complaint against 
NWB, was that it failed to inform him of the outstanding debt on his credit card prior to his 
agreement to the offer and NWB then using the PPI pay-out to offset against a statute 
barred debt.
Mr B has told us he wasnt aware there was an outstanding debt  all of his debts were paid 
on his behalf by the DMP. 
In NWBs letter of 24 August 2020 sent to Mr B it said it hadnt had any contact with him 
regarding his credit card account since 2010. The last payment it had received was £41.84 
on 6 January 2010. We asked NWB about the contact it had with Mr B in 2010 after it took 
the debt back and how he would have been aware that there was a balance outstanding on 
his credit card account. 
NWB explained that the account was initially sent to a debt collection agency in March 2005 
and was transferred to other agencies until the whole debt collection agency placement 
process had been completed and it was recalled. NWB said its unclear whether Mr B was 
contacted when the account was recalled. But my understanding is its not unusual for a 
business to decide its not worth pursuing a long outstanding debt and I refer to this again 
below. 
Was NWB right when it offset the pay-out against the outstanding balance?
Mr B says the debt is statute barred. This refers to the timescales within which a creditor, in 
this case NWB, can bring an action to recover the debt through the courts. But NWB isnt 
chasing Mr B for this debt, and although NWB may not be able to now pursue Mr B for that 
debt this doesnt mean the debt is extinguished. 
Put simply, Mr B still owes that debt to NWB. And I think it would be fundamentally unfair to 
tell NWB to pay back the extra £1,197.46 Mr B paid for PPI on his credit card when he didnt 
repay everything he owed. I cant see how that is fair. So, in conclusion, I think in the 
circumstances of this complaint, NWB wasnt being unreasonable to have used the redress 
payment to reduce the debt owed to it by Mr B.
The amount of the debt
NWB has provided us with bank statements for Mr Bs credit card account. The first is dated 
March 2005 and shows an outstanding balance of £5,029.56. The second is dated       
March 2010 and shows an outstanding balance of £2,700.55  a difference of £2,329.01. 
This was further reduced to £1,503.09 after the credit of the PPI redress.
NWB has also given us a statement of the payments made between 24 August 2005 and   
28 January 2010 on the outstanding debt. The amount paid each month varies, but the total 
amount paid is £2,329.01 which tallies with the difference between the two NWB bank 
statements of Mr Bs credit card account.
Mr B has questioned this. He has given us a statement from his DMP dated May 2020 which 
shows two NWB accounts for his overdraft and loan. There is another account using the title 
of one of the debt recovery agencies, account number ending 0037. Its likely that this refers 
to his credit card account as its listed on the original List of Creditors (using the same 
account number) as owing £5,029 which is the same amount on NWBs March 2005 
statement. 
The DMP statement dated May 2020 shows payments made to that account of £1,055.65, 
so less than the amount recorded on the NWB statements. If that is the case, then Mr B is in 
a more advantageous position than he would have been otherwise  NWB shows payments 
of £2,329.01 against the payment of £1,055.65 as per the DMP statement. If Mr B has 
concerns about the records kept by the DMP then he should direct those concerns to the 
DMP. 
Interest rate chargesMr B has commented on interest that may have been charged to his accounts once he was 
in financial difficulty. I have not checked his overdraft or loan accounts, but the statements 
provided by NWB for his credit card account show that no interest was charged after 
November 2004 when it was clear he was in financial difficulty. If Mr B has concerns about 
the other accounts, he should raise that with NWB as a separate complaint. 
I know my conclusion will be disappointing to Mr B but after taking into consideration all of 
the information and evidence provided by the parties, my decision is that I do not uphold    
Mr Bs complaint. In the circumstances of this complaint I dont find that NWB was being 
unreasonable in how it used the redress due for Mr Bs PPI credit card mis-sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman