DRN-1968022
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that he wasnt informed about the new share classes (with lower fees) by 
Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited (the business). 
He would like a refund of all extra charges hes paid over the years.  
 
What happened
I understand that Mr G chose the business account  via a legacy provider  without any 
advice, many years ago. 
He recently became aware of a new share class that was available in February 2017, that 
had lower charges compared to his existing share class.  
Hes unhappy that the business didnt automatically switch his shares or advise him to do so. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that the business has done anything wrong. 
As part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Retail Distribution Review (RDR) 
in 2012, the business took the opportunity to review its Annual Management Charge 
(AMC) and share classes for its Open Ended Investment Companies (OEICs) and 
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs). As a result, it removed its advice service, so 
reduced the AMC for OEICs and ISA top-ups from 1 October 2012.  
Although new share class B  with a lower AMC  was created in February 2017, 
regular payments into existing investments would continue to invest in existing share 
classes unless specifically instructed to do otherwise by the customer.
Mr G was paying regular contributions into his ISA without any top-ups or switches, 
so remained in share class A  with higher charges  despite the business 
proactively communicating with all its customers about the new (cheaper) share class 
in 2017. 
If Mr G had enquired about investing into a new share class or switching funds, the 
business wouldve made him aware of the new share class and the opportunity to 
switch. But theres no evidence that Mr G did this, so his investment remained with 
his original share class.  
Its likely that Mr G wouldve needed advice  for which charges would apply  to 
invests in the new share class. Just because the investments were taken out 
(decades ago) and Mr G didnt request advice, doesnt mean the business should 
now offer Mr G free advice. It seems Mr G bought shares on an advised basis, and by doing so he agreed to the 
business terms and conditions including the AMC and other charges. Hes unable to 
say the business has treated him unfairly. 
The share class has the same AMC regardless of whether advice was given or not. 
Its an implicit charge taken against the fund and taken into account before a share 
price is set. 
The business was also the product provider and not authorised to give advice. But it 
has made its customers aware of the situation regarding the new share class when 
theyve enquired. 
Although Mr G is unhappy with the business process its not for us to tell a business 
how to run itself. The business is within its rights to offer a new share class and 
charge for it. 
Given the changes the business hasnt done anything wrong by not advising Mr G of 
the new share class. 
The business has asked if Mr G now wishes to change to the cheaper class but is 
still awaiting his instructions. 
 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In short, he said:
 
He decided to buy these investments without advice. He was working within the 
industry at the time and had educated himself. So, any suggestion that this was an 
advised sale is wrong. 
The Investigator says he hasnt seen evidence but hasnt asked for further evidence 
either. 
When the share class was created no customer wouldve known or understood why 
this was done, unless this was explained to them or they had experience in 
charges/commission which are notoriously opaque. And because information was 
intentionally kept from the customer, they wouldnt have been able to make a 
decision to switch.  
Our service should do something to put things right rather than pass the buck.   
He kept funding in South East Asian shares because the underlying investment was 
good, which was justified by its success. But this doesnt excuse the fee hike which 
was hidden in plain sight. The best course of action wouldve been for the business 
to have advised him. 
The investigators view is unfair and unreasonable. He remains very disappointed.  
 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change is 
mind. In summary, he said:
 
Its not unreasonable to think Mr Gs dispute is with the regulations in place rather 
than the business. 
The business isnt obliged to transfer his shares without his instructions. 
Theres no evidence in this case that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
If Mr G has any more information, hes free to submit this for consideration.  
 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr G says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has behaved unreasonably by not advising him to transfer his shares to a 
new share class with cheaper fees or not automatically doing so of its own volition. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Gs strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr G says Im not persuaded that 
the business  as the product provider  was obliged to proactively offer Mr G advice in the 
traditional sense, let alone advise him to switch funds just because cheaper fees were 
available. However, if asked the relevant questions  about share class/switching funds  
the business wouldve been obliged to provide the correct information about the possible 
options available to him, as it has done in response to his enquires in 2019. 
Its likely that the business was charging for this service (or access to this service)  as part 
of the AMC  even though Mr G didnt initially pay for advice. I just dont think that the 
business was under an obligation  as product provider  to actively advise him as to what 
he might do, just because there was a new option available. 
Im mindful that the investigator said that this was an advised sale  but I dont think it was. 
Im satisfied that Mr G did agree to the terms and conditions when he decided to invest. And 
I note that the share class has the same AMC regardless of whether advice was given or 
not. Its an implicit charge taken against the fund and considered before a share price is set. 
I also dont think the business had authority to act on Mr Gs behalf (unilaterally) without 
direct instructions from him to do so. Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was a prior 
arrangement (between them) to enable it to act on its own accord. So, in the circumstances 
Im unable to say the business has done anything wrong by not automatically switching 
funds to a cheaper share class.  I think its more likely (than not) the business notified its customers of the new share class, 
but in the circumstances Im not sure it was obliged to do anymore. I note it says, We inform 
customers of the lower charged share classes when an increment or fund switch is initiated, 
but have not proactively communicated the option of switching to a lower charged share 
class. Which in my opinion, on balance, would seem fair as it wasnt an advisory service 
and wouldve have been up to the customer to seek financial advice about what to do next. 
Given that Mr G didnt make enquiries until late November 2019, its likely he didnt receive 
any information about the new share class from 2017. Its possible that there were issues 
with the postal service  although Ive seen no evidence of this  but if there was, Im unable 
to safely say that the business is responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service.  
Its entirely a matter for Mr G what he does with his funds, its likely that many customers 
(unlike Mr G) wouldnt have appreciated an automatic switch despite the initial cost 
implications because there are other considerations besides costs  in any case without the 
power of hindsight, there was no way of knowing if the automatic switch was likely to do 
better. To have done so wouldve meant the business was acting outside of its own rules 
and regulations. 
The RDR 2012 was a review by the FCA that, among other things, sought to improve 
transparency in the communication of investment charges. As a result, financial advisers 
were required to provide information upfront about fees for the service they provided. 
But because the RDR wasnt retrospective, it didnt apply to investments before its time, 
which meant a lot of the investments fell out of its scope. So, Mr G should understand that 
the new position came into force in or around January 2013 and although it ruled out trail 
commission  it only applied to new investments sold after this time. In other words, the 
changes dont apply retrospectively.
So, it was up to Mr G to decide whether or not to transfer to a new share class  in this case 
class B  with lower fees, otherwise hed remain in share class A and continue to pay the 
fees he was paying as the rule didnt apply retrospectively. I dont think thats unfair in the 
circumstances. The RDR wasnt a secret and despite what Mr G says and believes I dont 
agree that the introduction of the new share class was a sleight of hand to undermine 
existing customers.
Despite what Mr G says, Im unable to say that information was deliberately kept from him so 
that hed continue to stay within the more expensive share class. I appreciate thats how he 
feels but Ive seen nothing to suggest that this is was the case. Or that the FCA has 
deliberately allowed the business to get away with this behaviour, so that existing customers 
can be treated detrimentally. 
Its entirely a matter for the business  in the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement 
 whether it introduces a new share class and fees. Its not for us to tell it how to run its 
business. So, Im unable to say that the business has done anything wrong by introducing a 
new share class with a different fee structure in line with regulations.  
I note that Mr G still has the option to move his existing investments to a new share class, 
but the business is still waiting for his instructions.
I appreciate Mr G will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.  On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman