DRN-3244802
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the drain repairs completed by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) following a claim made under his home insurance policy. He also says there was 
dirt left, a clip was missing, and damage had been caused to his garage floor.
What happened
Mr B made a subsidence claim to Lloyds, his home insurance provider, in 2019. Mr B was 
unhappy with the handling of his claim and made a complaint. 
The complaint was referred to our service and a final decision was issued on that complaint.
Mr B raised further concerns, which are the subject of this complaint. This included the 
repairs that were completed to his drains, that there was dirt left and a clip was missing, and 
that there was damage to his garage floor.
Lloyds looked at Mr Bs concerns and issued their response to his complaint, but as he didnt 
agree, he referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said the drain 
works, which included lining, were in accordance with the reports completed. He also noted 
Lloyds had said that they would clean any dirt left and replace the missing clip. And that 
damage to the garage flooring hadnt been noted by the contractors, but if Mr B could 
demonstrate this, Lloyds could consider it further.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned above, one of my ombudsmen colleagues looked at Mr Bs previous 
complaint about the handling of his claim by Lloyds, and some other issues raised. They 
issued a final decision. As those issues have already been considered by this service, I 
wont be commenting on them here.
My decision here is only in relation to the repairs completed to the drains, the missing clip 
and dirt left, and alleged damage to the garage floor.
Mr B says the drain repairs havent been carried out in line with surveys completed. He says 
this mentioned that all the pipes should be removed and replaced. Hes unhappy that not all 
have been, and a drain liner has been installed. Mr B also says hes been told by an expert 
that the repair wont last more than six to twelve months.
Lloyds has confirmed in their final response:
The only excavation that was not carried out in full was the rest bend at the rear of the 
property. We instead utilised a flexi liner to repair the defect on this section of the drain  the 
original repair method from the excavation was always down for drain lining and this has 
been completed as per the recommendations. Lining repairs are the modern method of 
repair.
The repairs at the front were excavated as planned, we simply amended the location to 
minimise scarring to the policy holders (sic) driveway. We were able to divert closer to the 
garage to avoid a large patch section in the middle of the driveway.
You do not need to excavate drains in their entirety in order to repair them.
Ive seen the reports carried out on the drains. This references that lining was always part of 
the proposed repair method. And as Ive outlined, Lloyds also provided a further explanation 
to Mr B about this. As the proposed drain repairs were always to include lining, and Ive not 
seen anything that demonstrates its been unsuccessful or that a lasting and effective repair 
hasnt been carried out, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do any further works to the drains.
Mr B also says a drain expert said the repair wont last more than six to twelve months. 
Whilst I note what Mr B says, hes not provided any reports or evidence in support of this, so 
Im not persuaded a lasting and effective repair hasnt been carried out.
When Mr B raised his concerns with Lloyds about a missing clip and dirt being left, Lloyds 
said theyd address this. As this has been accepted by Lloyds, there isnt anything further for 
me to ask them to do here.
Lloyds also noted Mr B had said there was damage to his garage floor. But this hadnt been 
raised with the contractors, and no damage had been noted at time of inspection. But if Mr B 
is able to provide evidence of this, then he should provide this to Lloyds to consider further. If 
he remains unhappy after this, we may be able to consider that as a new separate 
complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman