DRN-4023821
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not treat him fairly when it defaulted his loan 
account. 
What happened
In March 2012, Mr G took out a Barclays loan for £14,500 that was due to be paid back over 
ten years. He then moved to a new home in September 2012. Mr G says he notified 
Barclays of the change in his address. The address was updated in respect of another 
Barclays product, but it appears the address was not updated in respect of the loan. 
In around March 2020, Mr G says he was subject to identity theft and fraud. He says he 
stopped making payments to his loan Barclays at this stage because he had been advised 
by a third-party business to make sure that his repayments were going to the correct payee 
and not a fraudster. 
Mr G says he tried to contact Barclays several times, but each time he called, he failed the 
security check. He believes that this is because his address had not been updated. Mr G 
says that during one call, he was told that his account had been frozen and that he would 
have to go to a Barclays branch to unfreeze it. However, at the time, he was unable to do so 
after contracting Covid-19.  
On 1 October 2020, Barclays was notified by a tracing agent that Mr G had moved to a new 
address. The tracing agent supplied the new address and said that Mr Gs presence had 
been confirmed by a full financial link and recent credit activity.  
On 13 October 2020, Barclays issued a Notice of Default to Mr G requiring him to pay 
£190.68 on or before 10 November 2020. This notice was sent to the address held on file for 
Mr G and not the updated address notified by the tracing agent. 
On 10 November 2020, Mr G successfully called Barclays. He had been contacted by debt 
collectors and believed them to be from Barclays. He said he had some queries about 
payments that had been made to his account. He was advised to speak with the collections 
team and to call back on another day. 
After being contacted by a debt collection agency acting on behalf of Barclays, Mr G made a 
complaint. In response, Barclays said that it could not locate any evidence that Mr G had 
been in touch with it between March 2020 and October 2020. It said letters and loan 
statements were issued to him, but as no response was received, a default notice was 
issued. 
Barclays said it had sent the default notice to the address it had on file for Mr G and that it 
could not find evidence to suggest that he had updated his address in 2012. It said that he 
could have attended one of its branches to update his address when he did not have 
symptoms of Covid-19. Barclays offered to pay £100 to Mr G because it had taken longer 
than necessary to resolve his complaint. 
Our investigator thought Barclays offer to pay £100 to Mr G was a fair way to settle the 
complaint. Mr G did not agree with that view and the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with the outcome here, but my decision is that Barclays 
offer to pay £100 to Mr G is a fair way to settle the complaint. Ill explain why below.  
Mr G says that he informed Barclays of his new address when he moved in 2012. The 
address for one of his Barclays products was updated, but not that for his loan. As the 
update was made over ten years ago, Barclays has no record as to how Mr G requested that 
change. Mr G cannot remember how he notified Barclays all that time ago. I wouldnt expect 
either party to retain such detailed information for that length of time. 
However, I know that Mr Gs loan and the linked financial product are administered 
separately. So, without any evidence to suggest that Mr G gave a specific instruction for his 
address to be updated for his loan, I cant say Barclays did anything wrong when it only 
updated the address for the linked product in 2012. Mr G said he had tried a number of times 
ever since 2012 to update the address for his loan. On that basis, I think he must have 
known back then that the address hadnt been updated. If he didnt, he wouldnt have had to 
keep trying to contact Barclays. 
Ive next looked at whether it was fair for Barclays to default Mr Gs loan account. As I said 
above, Mr G took out a loan for £14,500 back in 2012. He knew when he took that loan out 
that he had to make repayments every month until 2022. 
I know that when Mr G fell victim to fraud, he was told by a third-party business to exercise 
caution in making repayments. And I can see that he also had some difficulties contacting 
Barclays because of the issues relating to his address. But this matter was important, and I 
would have expected Mr G to persevere in trying to resolve the matter. I know Mr G says he 
tried many times to contact Barclays to resolve the issue, but I havent seen evidence of any 
telephone contact before October 2020. 
As it stands, Mr G made no payments towards his loan between 4 January 2020 and 10 
August 2020. Mr G paid £127.67 on 11 August 2020. If the reason Mr G had missed 
payments was because he could not be sure that they would reach Barclays, it is not clear to 
me why one payment was made on 11 August 2020 before he had managed to speak with 
Barclays. No further payment was made after that until 22 October 2020.
In any event, by the time Barclays defaulted the account in October 2020, it hadnt had any 
contact with Mr G in a meaningful way for some considerable time. He had made only one 
payment in 10 months. On that basis, I dont think it was wrong for Barclays to default the 
account at that stage. 
I know Barclays had been provided with a likely new address for Mr G, but it sent the default 
notice to the last address it held on file for him. As it had not been notified of a new address 
by Mr G, I dont consider it wholly unreasonable for Barclays to have sent the 
correspondence to the address on file.  I know Mr G did make a payment in October 2020, 
but this was not sufficient to cover the arrears. With all of this in mind, I cant say it was 
wrong for Barclays to register the default when it did. 
Barclays accepted that it took longer than it should have to deal with Mr Gs complaint. It 
offered to pay £100 to him to compensate him for that delay. I agree with our investigator 
that this is a fair way to settle the complaint. Barclays will now need to arrange to pay that 
£100 to Mr G. 
Putting things right
Barclays must pay £100 to Mr G to compensate him for the delay in investigating his 
complaint. My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman