DRN-4042336
The complaint
Mrs B complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension arrangement.
Although trading at the time under another name, Personal Touch Financial Services Limited 
is now responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to 
Personal Touch.
What happened
Mrs B was a deferred member of an OPS, having previously worked for a company between 
1987 and 2003, when she was made redundant. In 2010 she approached Personal Touch 
for advice about her deferred scheme. Information was gathered about her circumstances 
and objectives which were broadly as follows:
Mrs B was 41 years old, married and with two young dependent children. 
She had since moved to a new employer, whereby in 2010, she was earning around 
£10,500 per year. She was also by then, a contributing member to a new pension 
scheme with her employer, also a defined benefit scheme. This pension isnt the 
subject of any complaint.
She wanted to ask about transferring her old deferred pension. The cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of the pension Mrs B is complaining about was around 
£29,406 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. However, this figure had been 
reduced by 20% due to a current underfunding position within the DB scheme.
Mr B was 44 and earned around £19,300 per year. They had a mortgage of £21,000 
which was on an interest-only basis.
Personal Touch set out its advice in a suitability letter in July 2010. It advised her to transfer 
out of her deferred OPS and invest the funds in a personal pension. Mrs B accepted this 
advice and so transferred from her deferred OPS to a personal pension arrangement shortly 
after. 
Mrs B says that it was only in 2021 that she became aware of having a cause to complain. 
She first complained to Personal Touch about its advice, saying she shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out of her DB scheme. In response, Personal Touch said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mrs B had at the time. However, it 
also said the complaint was out of time under the rules we operate under. 
Mrs B then referred her case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said they thought this was a complaint we could look at. They said the 
circumstances of what happened showed Mrs B hadnt become aware of having a cause to 
complain until 2021. They also looked at the merits of her case and said the complaint 
should be upheld. Personal Touch still didnt agree.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with great care, the final response from Personal Touch, and in addition, all 
the points made about whether the complaint is within the time limits we apply. Ive also 
taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards 
and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Personal Touch's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 (updated version) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme 
is that it is unsuitable. So, Personal Touch should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to first consider whether the complaint is within our 
jurisdiction. Then Ive considered whether transferring away from the deferred OPS to a 
personal pension arrangement was in Mrs Bs best interests. 
Having done all this, Im upholding her complaint.
Jurisdiction
I first considered whether Im able to consider Mrs Bs complaint at all. And my decision is 
that I can.
We cant look at all the complaints referred to us. For example, the rules say that where a 
business objects, I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, made more than three years from the date the complainant was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of having cause for complaint. A copy of 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be provided on request or can be found online in the 
DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
Personal Touch didnt agree to us looking into Mrs Bs complaint, so I need to look at the 
rules to assess whether or not we can. As Mrs B transferred her pension in 2010, then she is well outside the six-year part of the rule. Mrs B is too late to bring her complaint in this 
respect. 
I therefore need to also look at the second part of the rule, namely whether Mrs B brought 
her complaint within three years of being aware, or of her ought to having been reasonably 
aware, of having cause for complaint. 
Personal Touch says it wrote to Mrs B on 18 September 2012 which was a little over two 
years after shed transferred. Ive seen a draft copy of the letter Personal Touch says it sent 
to clients like Mrs B and it was basically highlighting that some pension transfers might have 
been based on flawed advice or analysis. It didnt say hers definitely fell into this category, 
but the letter offered clients the right to ask for a review to be carried out on their case, to 
see if flawed advice had in fact been given. Personal Touch said that no reply was received 
from Mrs B despite the letter explaining what needed to be done to have a review carried 
out. It therefore sent a reminder letter explaining the same things in late November 2012.
What we now know is that Mrs B had moved home by the time these letters were sent. Shes 
shown us evidence proving she and Mr B moved in February 2012 and she didnt get the 
letters because they went to the old address. Mrs B also says shed had further contact with 
Personal Touch before these letters were sent about another financial matter and this should 
have made it clear to the business that shed moved home.
Personal Touch says it cant find evidence that it should have known shed moved home. 
However, the evidence about her actually moving is, in my view, very reliable. What I think 
its fair to say then, is that the two warning letters about potentially flawed pension transfer 
advice were not sent to Mrs Bs correct address. And whether or not Personal Touch says 
she ought to have redirected her mail, or otherwise have told financial services providers 
about moving, is not relevant here.
In short, I think its much more likely than not that Mrs B didnt receive or see the letters in 
late 2012. They were clearly sent to an old address and she now says that if shed seen 
such a warning letter, then shed have asked for the pension transfer review to take place.
I agree with this and so having considered all the evidence about this jurisdiction issue, I 
think the complaint is in time. Mrs B says she only became aware of maybe having a cause 
for complaint in 2021 when a legal firm brought this to her attention. So, as my findings are 
that Mrs B didnt know she had cause to complain about her 2010 pension transfer until 
2021, this is a complaint I can look into. 
Ill therefore now address the merits of her complaint.
Financial viability of the pension transfer 
Personal Touch referred in its transfer recommendation to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income 
as the DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In Mrs Bs case, Personal Touch said the critical yield required to match the benefits of the 
DB scheme she was in at the time, at the age of 65, was 8.4% if she took a full pension and 
7.575% if she took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. Personal Touch based its 
recommendation on her taking tax-free cash and so says the growth rate that needed to be 
achieved was the lower one  7.575%. Normally, this assumption might not be unreasonable, but of course for Mrs B her retirement 
was still over 23 years away. So I think saying her pension would only need to exceed the 
lower critical yield figure of 7.575%, rather than the higher one of 8.4%, was no more than 
supposition. Predicting what shed do at her retirement in terms of taking or not taking tax-
free cash simply isnt reliable as this was over 23 years away.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
was only 6.6% per year for 23 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical 
yield figure of 8.4% and even still significantly below the critical yield figure of 7.575%. Its 
important to bear in mind that small parts of a percentage point matter in these assumptions 
as what were talking about here is year-on-year growth over more than two decades. Ive 
also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 5%. 
At the time, Personal Touch said Mrs Bs attitude to risk (ATR) was adventurous. But Ive 
seen nothing to substantiate this. She herself says she knew very little about pensions. Ive 
noted there is reference in the suitability letter to Mrs B having had a stocks and shares ISA. 
But this isnt listed elsewhere and the evidence here is more of someone with no investment 
experience and no current investments of that nature. The fact-find is very poor at 
identifying her ATR, containing as it does, gaps in key places and conflicting information. For 
example, it also says her ATR is Realistic which in my view doesnt really explain much. 
So, when thinking here about her ATR, Ive also considered Mrs Bs circumstances as a 
married mother with two young dependent children, a modest household income and a 
mortgage being paid on an interest only basis. Ive also noted the eventual fund 
recommendation from the Personal Touch adviser amounted to more balanced risk funds. 
Indeed, the projected growth rates referred in the illustration for the recommended funds 
were well below the critical yield figures  the mid-rate, for example, was only 4.95% per 
year.
Taking all these things into account, I think a future growth assumption towards the lower 
end of the regulators projections and also close to the discount rate was most relevant here. 
This was below both critical yield figures, so I think this shows that achieving either of the 
critical yields, year-on-year, upon transferring out just wasnt likely in Mrs Bs case. In my 
view, all these things were clearly indicating that Mrs B would likely receive lower pension 
benefits overall as a consequence of transferring away from the deferred DB scheme. And 
there would be little point in Mrs B giving up the guarantees and benefits available to her 
through her existing scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension 
in the long term. 
Personal Touch implies Mrs B thought that reaching the critical yield growth rates was 
achievable. But as Ive said, theres no evidence at all to suggest Mrs B really knew enough 
about investing to say this, if indeed she did. She would have had no experience to base this 
view on and she went to an adviser looking for advice. So, Personal Touch should have 
been pointing out here that the chances of her achieving these types of growth rates over a 
long period  as Ive demonstrated - was far more unlikely than likely.Of course, Personal Touchs recommendation was evidently supported by other reasons to 
transfer away. So Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable for her, despite providing the overall lower benefits Ive mentioned. Ive 
considered these below.
Other reasons for the advice
Ive used the documentation from Personal Touch and given to Mrs B at the time to help list 
some of the themes the recommended transfer away was based on. Our investigator also 
highlighted some themes when he issued his view. The following themes were present:
The security of the deferred scheme going forward  it was suggested that Mrs B 
was nervous about losing her pension altogether because her deferred scheme was 
then underfunded, and shed seen negative media stories about pensions in general.
The adviser suggested the death benefits were better in a personal pension plan.
It was suggested that flexibility in how and when benefits could be accessed were 
much better in a personal pension.
Performance of the recommended funds was historically good.
However, the most obvious issue here, in my view, was Mrs Bs age. Mrs B was only 41 
years old at the time and unsurprisingly, she had no concrete plans for retirement. Her NRA 
was over 23 years away and it simply isnt credible that she had an idea of what her 
retirement might look like. I think this was also evidenced by her personal circumstances. 
She and her husband had young children who had their whole life ahead of them so 
planning Mrs Bs pension arrangements so far in advance was always going to be subject to 
change. 
Our investigator also pointed out a failure in the analysis to realistically assess Mrs Bs 
financial needs in retirement. In all likelihood this would have been substantially hampered 
anyway by her comparatively young age at the time and retirement being such a distant 
concept. But Personal Touch made misleading attempts to predict the income she might 
need and implied there would be a shortfall unless she did something now. It failed, for 
example, to take into account that Mrs B was contributing to a new pension and had many 
years more of employer and employee contributions to benefit from.
Personal Touch, in my view, took little account of her age. Even if Mrs B had aspirations to 
retire early and therefore closer to the age she was in 2010, she could have retired early as 
a member of her existing scheme. I still dont think this applied here because even this would 
have been some years away, but even if it did, in these circumstances there would have 
been an actuarial reduction caused by early retirement from the scheme. This would have 
meant Mrs Bs pension benefits would have been somewhat different due to her accessing 
the pension earlier and for longer. But Ive seen no evidence this existing flexibility was really 
discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in her best interests, rather than her 
just being advised to transfer away from her existing pension completely.
The security of the deferred scheme
The evidence about the perceived weaknesses in the deferred scheme are contradictory. On 
one hand, Mrs B seems to have expressed a worry that her scheme could be in financial 
difficulties and she might lose everything. But this seems based on no more than media coverage at the time relating to unconnected schemes and a perception that the current 
underfunding of her scheme was more serious than it actually was.
Personal Touch had a responsibility here. Its job wasnt simply to transact what Mrs B might 
have thought she wanted. Its job was to really understand her needs and provide her with 
professional advice. This included interpreting her apparent anxiety and advising 
accordingly. Personal Touch itself referred in writing to her scheme being part of a large 
European and multi-national company with significant assets. There was also a suggestion 
that it was addressing the pension shortfall, a shortfall the adviser should have known was 
not uncommon in DB schemes at that time. Personal Touch needed also to explain the UK 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) and in my view it should have been providing a detailed 
analysis of what this meant specifically for Mrs B if her deferred scheme fell into this 
category.
However, even if there was a chance her underfunded scheme was in danger, I think that 
Personal Touch should have reassured Mrs B that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as she thought. I think the income available to Mrs B through the PPF would 
have still provided a significant portion of the income she would have needed at retirement. 
But Personal Touch didnt carry out any analysis on this and I certainly dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Personal Touchs recommendation to Mrs B to transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether, without a detailed comparison.
In short, Mrs B was paying for this advice. So, the adviser needed to be thoroughly 
addressing all her concerns in the process. But what Personal Touch did instead was to 
simply recommend she transfer away. As a consequence of this it knew she would suffer a 
material reduction in the value of her CETV. This was caused by the likely short-term / 
temporary underfunding position of the pension. What wasnt taken into account was that the 
scheme was evidently addressing these funding issues in the longer-term.
Death benefits 
In my view, what Personal Touch said about the death benefits of both types of schemes 
was misleading. It implied that Mrs Bs DB scheme would pay out 50% to her spouse upon 
her passing away, but that a personal pension would return the full value of the fund as a 
tax-free lump sum apart from any protected rights portion which must be used to provide a 
spouses/dependents pension.
This may have sounded good, but it needed careful explanation, particularly as Mrs B was 
still only 41 years old and in good health. For example, as a deferred member, there would 
have been some benefits payable, most likely to Mr B, if Mrs B passed away before she 
started drawing from her DB pension scheme. If she died after starting to draw her pension, 
the pension payable to Mr B would have been around 50% of the annual amount Mrs B was 
receiving. There may have also been wider child-related benefits. So these were good 
benefits and they increased in value annually through indexation with inflation measures.
On the other hand, whilst the whole value of a pension in a personal scheme could be 
passed on, the whole point of a pension is to pay for ones retirement. If Mrs B had lived a 
long life, its highly likely there would be very little left in the personal pension fund to pass 
on. The amount in a personal scheme was also at risk to market volatility and it wasnt index 
linked.
So, although Personal Touch implied that the death benefits were discussed at the time and 
the personal pension arrangement would better enable the retention of the value of the funds 
if Mrs B died, this isnt strictly the full picture. I therefore think the likely death benefits 
attached to the DB scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been useful to Mr B if Mrs B predeceased him and I dont 
think Personal Touch made the value of this benefit clear enough. Personal Touch should 
not have encouraged Mrs B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over her security in retirement.
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 41 years old, this may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mrs B really did 
want to leave a legacy for Mr B and her children. 
Overall in this case, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs B. I think this 
objective, listed in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment used to help 
justify the transfer away advice. It was not meaningful to Mrs Bs situation.
Flexibility and the potential performance of the funds
I cant see that Mrs B required flexibility in retirement in the way Personal Touch implied. 
Personal Touch did a very poor job at identifying what Mrs Bs retirement income 
requirements might be. But as Ive said, this was probably made difficult by the fact that she 
was so far away from retirement and it was far too early to be considering moving from a DB 
scheme in her circumstances. There were already limited degrees of flexibility still available 
to Mrs B around retiring early which Personal Touch failed to comprehensively explore. 
I have noted that Personal Touch said at the time that Mrs B liked the idea of having 
flexibility to grow her funds and the diversity of funds on offer. However, as Ive said, there 
was no real evidence that shed be able to grow the funds to a value greater than the DB 
scheme ultimately gave her and to do so would involve much more risk. Ive also seen 
nothing showing Mrs B had either the desire or capacity to manage and grow her funds. I 
think these comments were stock objectives again used to justify the transfer 
recommendation.
Summary
In this decision Ive first explained why Mrs B complaint is one we can look into.
As regards the merits of her complaint, Mrs B was only 41 years old and still over 23 years 
from her NRA. I explained why, in her circumstances, I thought it was far too early to 
recommend that she transfer away from her deferred DB scheme. There were no justified 
financial reasons for doing so, since the evidence shows she would be more likely to receive 
lower benefits in the longer-term as a result of transferring away.
Mrs Bs scheme was underfunded as of 2010. But this wasnt unusual and theres no 
evidence showing the underfunding at the time was so serious as to merit the immediate 
withdrawal from the scheme. In any event, Personal Touch failed to comprehensively assess 
any other options that might have been available. 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have all sounded like attractive features to Mrs B. But 
Personal Touch wasnt there to merely transact what Mrs B might have thought she wanted. 
The advisers role was to recommend what was in her best interests but instead, they 
recommended the transfer based on stock objectives which I believe bore little 
resemblance to Mrs Bs situation.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs B was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within her current deferred scheme. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows there was very limited opportunity to 
improve on her existing benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons 
which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Personal Touch ought to have 
advised her against transferring out of her DB scheme.
In my view, Mrs Bs circumstances were much more aligned to her retiring from the DB 
scheme when she was ready to do so and drawing a regular income. In this context, the 
suitable option was for her to access her DB pension in the way it was originally intended.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mrs B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Personal Touch disclosed some 
of the risks of transferring to Mrs B and provided her with a certain amount of information. 
But ultimately it still advised Mrs B to transfer out, and I think Mrs B relied on that advice. Im 
not persuaded that Mrs B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Personal Touchs advice. I say this because Mrs B was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of her retirement provision at the time. So, if Personal 
Touch had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that any concerns Mrs B might have had about the PPF were so 
great that she would have insisted on transferring her pension, knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable 
for her or in her best interests. So if Personal Touch had explained Mrs B was also unlikely 
to exceed the benefits available to her through the PPF if she transferred out, and that she 
probably could meet her income needs in retirement without risking her guaranteed pension, 
I think that would have carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Personal Touch should compensate Mrs B for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs B would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Personal Touch must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs B has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Personal Touch should:always calculate and offer Mrs B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs B receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs B accepts Personal Touchs offer to calculate how much of their redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs B for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Personal Touch may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mrs Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Personal 
Touch Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Personal Touch Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Personal 
Touch Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Personal Touch Financial Services Limited pays Mrs B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs B.
If Mrs B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Personal Touch 
Financial Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman