DRN-1295828
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr D took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a credit card - both were 
done by postal application.
The policy provided protection for Mr D's credit card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 10% of the outstanding card balance and it would do so for up to 12 months per claim. Its 
basic cost was 73 pence for every £100 Mr D owed on the card and the payments did attract 
interest.
At the time of the sale Mr D was employed, and he said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half pay. He said he had no other means he 
couldve used to make his repayments, and he said he was in good health at the time.
BoS' records show Mr D's account ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr D chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr D, through his representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr D's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr D's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr D have a choice about PPI?  
I think BoS made it clear that Mr D didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant now remember this. BoS has provided us with a copy of Mr D's credit card application. And here I can see there 
is a separate section about PPI, which asked Mr D to sign it if he wanted the cover. Mr D did 
sign here - if he didn't want PPI he could've left this section blank.
So overall I'm satisfied BoS made it clear that PPI was optional and that Mr D chose to take 
it out.
the information  
This was a sale by post. So BoS didn't recommend the cover to Mr D. So it didn't have to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for him. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely 
information about it, so he could make an informed decision about whether to go ahead or 
not.
Based on what I've seen I don't think BoS did do that - for example I don't think the cost was 
made clear and I don't think the significant limits on and exclusions to the cover were made 
clear. But as I found above, Mr D chose to take out PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for him - for example he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions such as those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances; and he didn't have significant other means which might have 
made the policy less attractive - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr D off taking out the 
cover. 
conclusion
While BoS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr D PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think he'd have still gone ahead and 
taken out PPI had BoS done anything more.
This means I dont think Mr D has lost out as a result of having PPI, so BoS doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr D what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr D and his representative have said - including what theyve 
said about his sick pay and public sector employment. But these points dont change my 
decision. While Mr D had what might be described as generous sick pay, the policy would've 
paid out in addition to this and for longer if necessary - up to 12 months. It also had the 
potential to pay off the balance in full given the level of benefit. 
So in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition offered by the policy, I think in Mr D's 
circumstances he'd have still gone ahead and taken out the policy had BoS better explained 
things.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman