DRN-3374841
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs S has an income protection insurance policy which pays a benefit if she is too unwell to 
work, after a deferred (waiting) period of 4 weeks.
Mrs S became absent from work in August 2020 and returned in October 2020. She made a 
claim which LV declined as it said the medical evidence didnt show she was too unwell to 
work.
Mrs S complained and unhappy with LVs response, referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think LV had done anything wrong as 
the medical evidence didnt support that Mrs S was too unwell to work. 
Mrs S disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The ECG graph definitely deviates from normal, even though her arrhythmia is not 
very strong.
She doesnt agree LV acted fairly and will ask for a GP medical report. Apart from her 
test results, there is sufficient medical evidence of her health condition.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms say when Mrs S will receive benefit:
if youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of your occupation, and you arent 
doing any other paid or unpaid work.
Ive set out below the key medical evidence LV relied on.
The claim form from the GP dated October 2020 refers to palpitations and says Mrs 
S is still under investigation.
Mrs S had seen a cardiologist in Poland and was also under cardiologist care in the 
UK.
The notes record that Mrs S had sudden onset of palpitations and called an 
ambulance. She was seen in A&E. She had an ECG which showed bigeminy and 
trigeminy. The form said her condition was improving.
October 2020  Mrs S GP wrote to her cardiologist and asked whether the 24-hour 
tape whilst over in Poland showed more than the previous one. And said she had 
been started on medication and her palpitations had improved.
Mrs S was signed off by her GP as a result of palpitations in August and September.
Mrs S was referred to a cardiologist at the end of September and went back to work 
in October.
LV said there was insufficient medical evidence to support that Mrs S couldnt work beyond 
10 September 2020 when the 4-week waiting period ended. It accepted that bigeminy and 
trigeminy were identified in the ECG but there was nothing to suggest her symptoms were so 
severe to prevent her from work. There was no clear evidence to explain her symptoms. 
Mrs S had said that her symptoms were caused by post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) 
and long-term stress. LV considered this but found there was no medical evidence of PTSD 
as Mrs S hadnt consulted about these or been investigated. In addition, stress wasnt an 
illness, it was a reaction to circumstances, and so it declined the claim. 
Based on the above medical evidence, I dont think LV unfairly declined the claim. Although 
there is no dispute that Mrs S ECG results showed abnormal heartbeats, there isnt any 
explanation about what caused these or whether this was a severe problem preventing her 
from working. The medical evidence doesnt confirm how Mrs S ongoing symptoms affected 
her ability to work. LV also commented that Mrs S was able to travel by plane to Poland 
whilst she was off work. And so the evidence didnt suggest her symptoms were severe 
enough to stop her from working.
Mrs S says her GP signed her off throughout the deferred period but on its own, this isnt 
enough to show that she was too unwell to work. I would expect to see additional medical 
evidence and reports from a specialist explaining what the ECG showed and why that meant 
Mrs S was too unwell to work. 
Mrs S doesnt agree that LV acted fairly and said she will ask her GP for a medical report. 
Any new medical evidence would need to be sent to LV to consider. In addition, the ECG 
results on their own dont explain that Mrs S was suffering from a severe illness. I dont 
agree that LV acted unfairly as it requested and reviewed the available medical evidence 
and explained why it declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman