DRN-4279313
The complaint
Mr S complains that AutoMoney Limited trading as AutoMoney Finance (AutoMoney) 
irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
AutoMoney. Mr S paid a deposit of £500 and was required to make a first instalment of 
£415.24, 58 monthly repayments of £366.24 and a final instalment of £465.24. The total 
amount repayable under the agreement was £22,122.40. Mr S believes AutoMoney failed to 
complete adequate affordability checks. Mr S says that if it had asked for bank statements it 
wouldve been clear that the agreement wasnt affordable.
AutoMoney disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate assessment which included a full 
credit search, income verification through payslips and a full expenditure assessment. It said 
these searches showed Mr Ss existing borrowing levels were moderate and that whilst he 
had defaults, all but one were recorded over 12 months prior to the application. AutoMoney 
said the searches showed these accounts were being well managed and there was no 
record of county court judgements on his file. It used payslips to calculate Mr Ss earnings 
and completed an expenditure assessment with Mr S in order to determine his outgoings 
which Mr S confirmed as accurate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
AutoMoneys checks were proportionate and that it was reasonable for Automoney to have 
approved the lending on the information its checks provided. 
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that at the time his need for a vehicle and lack of other finance 
options had meant hed fabricated some of his financial circumstances, and hadnt been 
accurate about his expenditure. He felt that this should have been spotted by AutoMoney 
and that requesting bank statements wouldve revealed these discrepancies. He asked for 
an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. AutoMoney needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that AutoMoney needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mr S 
before providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did AutoMoney complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Mr S would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did AutoMoney act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did AutoMoney complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
AutoMoney was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr Ss ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances.
Im satisfied that AutoMoney gathered a reasonable amount of information from Mr S about 
his income prior to approving the finance. I say this because apart from a full credit check it 
also obtained two months of payslips to verify his income and went through a full 
expenditure questionnaire with Mr S. Its provided me with this information to review.
So, at the time of the application Im satisfied that the information AutoMoney gathered 
showed Mr S had eight defaults recorded against him, one of which was recorded within one 
year of the agreement being taken out. I do think this ought to have indicated Mr S may have 
been struggling financially and so I wouldve expected AutoMoney to take further 
consideration of Mr Ss financial situation before approving any lending. And Im satisfied 
that this is exactly what it did  it has provided me with the payslips it used to separately 
verify Mr Ss income and the questionnaire its underwriter completed with Mr S to verify his 
expenditure.
I understand Mr S feels that it should have been obvious some of the information he 
disclosed was inaccurate and Ive thought about this carefully. CONC 5.3.7R states:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit 
agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect the customer 
has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to the information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the 
assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
I cant see any reason that AutoMoney should have reasonably suspected Mr S was not 
being truthful when completing his application. This is because there is nothing within the 
information it had available at the time which wouldve disproved Mr Ss statement that he 
lived with his father-in-law who paid his rental costs. I also cant see how AutoMoney 
couldve reasonably suspected that Mr S chose to not disclose a loan he owed his father  
as an informal arrangement such as this does not appear on any credit searches and would 
rely on Mr S informing AutoMoney. Mr S had confirmed the details he provided were all 
correct and truthful  without contradictory information available to it I dont think its 
unreasonable for AutoMoney to have accepted Mr Ss answers to its questions.So, whilst I appreciate Mr S feels srongly that bank statements should have been requested 
by AutoMoney Im not satisfied that AutoMoney needed to perform any more checks than it 
did at the time as I dont think there was a reason for AutoMoney to suspect Mr S had not 
been truthful.
Overall, Im satisfied that AutoMoney gathered a reasonable and proportionate amount of 
evidence and information to be able to adequately assess whether the agreement was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr S. However, this doesnt automatically mean it made a fair 
a lending decision.
Did AutoMoney make a fair lending decision?
Ive considered the payslips and expenditure details obtained at the time. The information 
gathered showed Mr S had around £1570 in monthly expenditure (including commitments, 
bills, food, fuel, clothing and general spending) versus an average income of around £2,120 
per month. Im satisfied that these figures are accurate what were disclosed at the time, and 
that altogether Mr Ss income and expenditure meant the agreement did not appear to be 
unaffordable.
Im satisfied from the information provided that it was likely that Mr S had more than 
sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly repayments and have money left over each 
month for emergency or unexpected costs. Whilst the credit check did show Mr S had some 
prior adverse information relating to other credit commitments, Im satisfied that the 
information gathered from Mr S at the time demonstrated that Mr S had the ability to 
maintain the repayments and have disposable income left over for other costs.
AutoMoney was entitled to lend to Mr S even if he had a previous poor history of repaying 
credit, but if it did so it needed to ensure it was affordable and sustainable. From the 
information disclosed at the time it seems Mr S still had sufficient disposable income each 
month to make reasonable repayments towards his debts, his other credit commitments and 
the new finance agreement in a sustainable way. From everything Ive seen I cant 
reasonably say AutoMoney acted unfairly when approving Mr Ss finance agreement.
Did AutoMoney act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that AutoMoney acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman