DRN-1456131
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms D says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms D complained that she did not know PPI had been added during a telephone call she had 
with Barclays to complete her credit card postal application. Our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should be rejected. Ms D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again.
Ms D added:
She didnt need PPI as she was fit and healthy and in full time work;
She would receive 6 months full sick pay followed by 3 months half pay;
She had around £2,000 to £3,000 in savings but did not evidence this; 
No-one gave her advice, or information or documents about PPI. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Having seen the telephone sale script which Barclays said it would have used around 
that time, I think Barclays made it clear that Ms D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose to take it out when she was asked whether she wanted it  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms D so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D. 
 But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms D has said - including what she said about her sick pay and 
savings. But these points dont change my decision because PPI could have paid out for 
longer than her sick pay and savings, so I think she still could have had some benefit from 
the PPI. 
what the business needs to do 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay back to Ms 
D any extra interest she paid because of that. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms D the 
difference between what Ms D owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should also pay Ms D 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms D can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman