DRN-2853557
The complaint
Miss E complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) irresponsibly 
approved a hire purchase agreement for her that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In August 2018, Miss E acquired a used car from a dealership using a hire purchase 
agreement from MBFS. The cash price of the car was around £38,400. Miss E part-
exchanged her existing car which was used as a £3,000 deposit for the agreement. Miss E 
was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £550, with a final optional payment of 
around £17,200 if she wanted to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
Miss E made payments towards the agreement for around 18 months until she complained 
to MBFS that she should be allowed to hand back the car at no cost because she was 
pressured into taking it out by her ex-partner. She said that she was only earning £5,000 per 
year at the time and the agreement wasnt affordable. She didnt think MBFS had done 
enough to check affordability before approving the borrowing. Further, she said there was a 
language barrier meaning she didnt understand what she was signing up for.
In early 2020, Miss E exercised her right to voluntary termination of the agreement, and she 
handed the car back to MBFS.
MBFS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that at the point of application Miss E 
had declared she was earning between £28,000 and £34,000 per year. It said it carried out a 
credit check which showed no repayment issues. It therefore was satisfied that its checks 
were sufficient to show Miss E could afford the agreement.
I sent Miss E and MBFS my provisional decision on 28 April 2021. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. The key parts of my provisional findings are copied 
below:
Did MBFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss E would 
be able to repay her agreement in a sustainable way?
MBFS says it complied with the requirements within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook when assessing affordability. 
It has robustly defended its position following our investigator finding that it had lent 
irresponsibly to Miss E. While Im planning to reach a different overall conclusion on this 
complaint to the investigator, I do agree with the investigator that MBFS didnt do enough
when assessing affordability for Miss E. Ill explain why.
The total repayable under the agreement was around £46,500, with monthly repayments of 
£550 over a four year term. This was therefore a relatively sizeable and lengthy credit 
commitment for someone to enter into. My starting point therefore is that a reasonable and 
proportionate affordability check ought to have been thorough.
MBFS says it asked Miss E what her income was, and it gave her options to select a 
particular salary range. It says she selected between £28,000 and £34,000 per year. This 
would have placed Miss Es monthly salary at around £1,900 to £2,200 per month. 
Therefore, MBFS ought to have understood that this hire purchase agreement was likely to 
use up around 25% of her monthly income. So, for what it says it knew about Miss Es 
circumstances it ought to have realised it was a significant commitment for her.
Our investigator pointed out to MBFS that the rules in CONC set out that it was generally not 
sufficient for a lender to rely solely on a customers estimate of their income and 
expenditure. In other words, the rules say that generally it would be reasonable for a lender 
to verify self-declared income and expenditure. Given the size of the borrowing and what 
MBFS was told about Miss Es circumstances I think it ought to have tried to at least verify 
her income and sought to find out more about her committed expenditure.
MBFS argues it did this by carrying out a credit check on Miss E which it says returned no 
issues. I disagree that this was sufficient and Im concerned that MBFS appears to consider 
this verified Miss Es income in some way  it didnt. At least not from what it has shared with 
us about the check it carried out.
Unfortunately, the information Miss E has shared with us about her credit file is incomplete 
so while I can see adverse information, I cant see when this was recorded to reasonably 
determine whether this would have likely been visible to MBFS too. But even if MBFS is right 
and there wasnt any adverse information or other signs of financial difficulty or signs of 
reliance on debt on Miss Es credit file at the time of the application, MBFS still ought to have 
done much more.
As Ive said above, it ought to have tried to verify Miss Es income in some way. This is 
because this was not an inexpensive car, she didnt put forward any cash as a deposit 
(except for the part-exchange value of her previous car) and MBFS were aware this 
agreement would take up a significant proportion of her declared monthly income. This was 
therefore not a situation where it could reasonably argue that the requirement in CONC to 
generally verify income shouldnt apply.
In addition to this, I think it ought to have also tried to find out more about Miss Es 
committed expenditure outside of her credit commitments. This is because it was proposing 
to ask Miss E to pay them around a quarter of her declared salary each month, so it needed 
to ensure Miss E wasnt overcommitting.
MBFS has made much out of the fact it says Miss E gave false information about her income 
 which I will come onto in more detail shortly  and it says on this basis it isnt fair for our 
service to say that MBFS didnt do enough checks. But irrespective of what any customers 
might self-declare as their income, this doesnt absolve MBFS of their requirements to lend 
responsibly and ensure lending is affordable. While there will be some circumstances where 
it will be reasonable for a lender to have relied solely on self-declared income, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, this wasnt one of them.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss E wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay the agreement?
I cant be sure what information and evidence MBFS would have asked for or received had it 
carried out a reasonable and proportionate affordability assessment. However, I do think it 
ought to have verified Miss Es income and asked her more about her committed 
expenditure, so Ive considered what I think it would likely have discovered had it done so. 
Miss E has provided us with her bank statements and some information from her credit file. Shes also sent in copies of her P60 for the years before she took out the hire purchase 
agreement.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Miss E likely wasnt earning between £28,000 and 
£34,000 per year. However, her bank statements do show she was receiving income into her 
account which collectively did appear to demonstrate annual earnings within that range, if 
not slightly above it.
The reason for this is that her sons wages were being paid into her account. Miss E has 
provided us with his payslips to demonstrate these wages werent hers. She says she had 
been able to maintain the monthly repayments to MBFS because her son was allowing her 
to use his wages for living costs.
The question therefore is what would MBFS have likely discovered had it sought to verify 
Miss Es declared income. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Miss E would 
have provided evidence to demonstrate she was receiving an income within the range she 
declared on the application form. I therefore dont think MBFS would have reasonably 
realised that wasnt what she was actually earning.
I say this because Miss E has told us she provided the car dealership with her bank 
statements to demonstrate her income. So, I think its likely this is what she would have done 
had MBFS asked for evidence of her income too. I dont think theres anything on the bank 
statements which would have made MBFS question whether the income was hers or not. As 
it is a sole account it would be unusual for someone elses wages to be paid into her 
account. Further, the entries dont say who they were for.
It is of course possible that Miss E would have voluntarily disclosed to MBFS that the wages 
werent hers. However, on balance, I dont think thats likely. This is because she clearly 
wanted to enter into the finance agreement, so I find it unlikely she would have openly said 
her salary was significantly lower than what shed declared on the application.
In making this finding, Ive also taken into account the inconsistency in what Miss E has said 
throughout the complaints process as to her financial and personal circumstances. This has 
led me to question how clear she would have been with MBFS at the point of application.
She had declared a salary of around £28,000 to £34,000 a year which seems to be 
consistent with what she was receiving into her bank account. In her complaint she initially 
stated her income was £5,000 per year, but our service later discovered her income 
(excluding what her son earned) was much higher than this although the exact figure is 
unclear.
Overall, Im persuaded that Miss E would have likely provided sufficient information to MBFS 
to demonstrate she was receiving income at the top end of the salary range she declared on 
the application. For the three months leading up to the application the average income into 
her account was around £2,400 per month and I think this is likely what MBFS would have 
seen too. Ive therefore considered what MBFS would likely have found out about her 
committed expenditure.
Miss E has provided us with a breakdown of her expenditure at the time, this appears to be 
broadly accurate based on the bank statements shes provided. I therefore think this is likely 
to be what she would have declared to MBFS at the time, particularly if she would have 
shared her bank statements in order to verify her income.
This information shows that excluding food and petrol her monthly expenditure including the 
MBFS agreement was around £1,800. This means she was left with around £600 per month towards her food, petrol and any unexpected costs. I think this would have been enough to 
persuade MBFS that the agreement appeared to be sustainable and affordable to Miss E. 
This means that had MBFS completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, its 
likely it would still have concluded the agreement was affordable. I therefore dont think it 
needs to do anything to put things right.
Did MBFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss E initially said that she was pressured into taking out the car by her ex-partner for their 
use and said there was a language barrier meaning she couldnt understand what she was 
entering into.
When our investigator has later asked Miss E about who the car was for, she said it was just 
for her. She hasnt mentioned any contributions that the ex-partner might have made to the 
car and only referred to her son helping her out. She hasnt provided any further information 
or detail about what she says might have happened with her ex-partner at the point of 
application. This coupled with the inconsistency in what shes said about her income means 
Im not persuaded that MBFS or the dealership ought to have been aware the car wasnt 
being taken out for Miss Es benefit.
Lastly, Ive noted that the salesperson at the dealership has said they werent aware of any 
language barrier. While that doesnt of course mean there wasnt one, Miss E hasnt given 
us any additional detail about what impact any language barrier had on her decision to enter 
into the finance agreement.
It seems clear she understood she was taking out a car on finance and what the main terms 
of that were, such as the cost. While I can accept its possible there were parts of the 
agreement she may not have understood, Ive not seen anything to persuade me this has 
either caused her a loss or that MBFS (or its agent) ought to have been reasonably aware of 
any language barrier. For these reasons, I dont think MBFS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in any other way.
Neither Miss E nor MBFS accepted my provisional decision. Miss E had no further 
comments to make but MBFS said, in summary, that the rules in place at the time didnt 
require them to complete a full income and expenditure assessment. It said it had done 
enough to verify her income. It said it would be unfair to suggest it ought to have done more 
when the credit check didnt reveal any concerns and the lending was auto-approved by their 
system which indicates there werent any affordability issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision and 
for broadly the same reasons. However, for completeness, Ill address the additional points 
MBFS has made. 
Just because its lending system auto-approved Miss Es application, it doesnt automatically 
follow that the lending decision was a fair one or that a proportionate and reasonable 
assessment was carried out. Further, I disagree that MBFS did enough to check Miss Es 
income. MBFS still hasnt explained how it did this, all it has said is that it carried out a credit 
check which didnt reveal any repayment concerns. This is not the same as verifying what 
her income was. I accept the dealership appears to have checked a bank statement at the time of application, 
but MBFS had no sight of it nor used any of that information when assessing whether Miss E 
could afford the borrowing. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
MBFS checks didnt go far enough and therefore werent proportionate or reasonable. 
However, given everything Ive seen, even if it had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, I think its more likely than not that the information and evidence it would have 
gathered would have shown Miss E could afford the agreement. I therefore dont think 
Miss E had lost out because of anything MBFS may have done. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman