DRN-2925539
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice when 
it advised him to transfer his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme benefits to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He also complains about the advice he received on 
investing his SIPP funds.
Mr B is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
It appears that in mid-2011 Mr B was cold called by Portal. He was offered a free pension 
review, which he took up.
At the time Portal recorded that Mr B:
- was 55 years old and had accrued nearly 14 years service in his DB pension;
- had no other pension savings, investments or cash-based savings;
- was in good health, divorced and had no dependents;
- had employed and self-employed earnings of around £18,000 per year;
- had an interest only mortgage with a balance of £85,000 and credit card debts of 
around £5,000; and
- had an attitude to investment risk that was moderately cautious.
The cash equivalent transfer value of Mr Bs DB pension benefits was around £35,000. The 
transfer value analysis set out that the critical yield (the amount Mr Bs pension pot would 
need to grow by each year to match the benefits available from his occupational scheme) 
was 6.3% per year. 
The suitability report set out that Mr B wanted to access his tax-free cash immediately to pay 
off debts and purchase a car. It also said Mr B wanted the remaining pension funds, after he 
had taken the tax-free cash, to remain invested until he was ready to take an income from 
these funds.
Portal advised Mr B to transfer his CETV to a SIPP, take 25% of the transfer value in tax free 
cash and invest the remaining money as follows:
- 59% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
- 5% Hypa Asia Fund
- 16% Venture Oil International
- 15% EOS Solar Energy
- 5% Cash Deposit
Mr B went ahead with the recommendation and the transfer was completed in late October 
2011.
In September 2015 Portal wrote to Mr B about problems with the investments he held in his 
SIPP, but the letter also gave assurances that the problems would be resolved. 
Despite this in November 2017 Mr B received a letter from his SIPP provider setting out that 
his investments were now illiquid, and his SIPP was valued at £1.27. 
In November 2018 Mr Bs representative complained to Portal on his behalf about the advice 
he had received to transfer his DB pension. Portal initially said it felt the complaint had been 
brought too late for it to have to consider it. Following a jurisdiction decision by this service I 
understand that Portal accepted that Mr Bs complaint had not been brought too late for this 
service to be able to consider it.
The investigator then looked into the merits of Mr Bs complaint. Having done so she said 
she was of the view that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
In summary she said she was not satisfied that the advice to transfer Mr Bs DB pension 
benefits to a SIPP was suitable. She explained that, in line with the industry regulators 
requirements she had, as a starting point, assumed that the transfer was unsuitable, unless 
it could be clearly shown that it was in Mr Bs best interest to transfer.
Having considered the personal and financial information recorded about Mr B at the time 
the advice was given, she said she could not safely find that the advice to transfer his DB 
pension to a SIPP was suitable.
She noted that the critical yield was 6.3% and she said that as Mr Bs attitude to investment 
risk was moderately cautious she felt this growth rate would have been challenging to 
match, or better each year. She also noted that when the advice was given this service 
published discount rates on our website, for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a pension transfer was being upheld. The discount rate indicated that a growth rate of 
5.5% each year for a customer with nine years to retirement was considered realistic. 
Although businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, she said she felt they provided a useful indication of the growth rates that would 
have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
She said she felt Mr B was likely to receive much lower benefits in retirement as a result of 
the advice than if he had left his benefits in the DB scheme. She reached this view as the 
critical yield of 6.3% growth required each year to match, not better, the benefits Mr B was 
being advised to give up was 0.8% more each year than the discount rate published by this 
service for loss assessments.
She noted that the suitability report set out that Mr Bs main objective was to take his tax-free 
cash (TFC) in order to pay off his debts and to purchase a car. 
Mr B confirmed to this service that he had used his TFC to pay down debts, but he said he 
also had to sell his home to repay debts. In view of this our investigator noted that the TFC 
had not been enough to put Mr B in the position he wanted to be in.
She said that the key purpose of a pension is to provide funds in retirement. As Mr B had no 
other pension provision, she said it was all the more important that his long-term financial 
security was very carefully weighed against the need for a lump sum. She noted that the 
suitability report said Mr B didnt want to re-broke his unsecured debts, or re-mortgage his 
home, but she said she wasnt satisfied that these options had been fully considered. 
In summary she said she was not satisfied that the advice to transfer his DB pension was in 
Mr Bs best interests. With regard to the underlying investments that Portal had advised Mr B to hold in his SIPP 
the investigator noted that these investments were high risk funds, and the largest 
investment was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS).
She said she wasnt satisfied that the high risk funds recommended were suitable for Mr Bs 
moderately cautious attitude to risk. She said that by advising Mr B to invest in these funds, 
he had been exposed to significant and unnecessary risk. She noted that Mr B had suffered 
very significant losses on the funds recommended and there was little prospect of the funds 
recovering.
In order to put matters right she said Portal should, as far as possible, Put Mr B into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. In addition, she said it should pay 
Mr B £400 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused him.
Portal did not accept our investigators view. It said it felt it had clearly demonstrated that 
the advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was suitable. In summary it said:
- Mr B required access to his pension funds and his maximum tax-free cash 
entitlement. This was discussed during a fact-find appointment with him on 1st 
August 2011. Mr B required the funds to help buy a car and to pay off some debt; 
and 
- the critical yield of 6.3% versus the discount rate suggested of 5.5% and the 
regulators published projection rates of 5% (Lower), 7% (middle) and 9% (upper). As 
Mr B was assessed as a medium to low-risk investor, the middle range projection of 
7% was certainly more than achievable on the open market and was higher than the 
critical yield of 6.3%. Although the transfer advice was not and should not, be solely 
based on the critical yield, the adviser did not consider the growth rate required to be 
so high that it was untransferable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same view as our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
As our investigator set out, when considering whether to transfer a defined benefit pension 
plan, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out that an adviser 
should, as a starting point, assume that transferring would be unsuitable and would need to 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in the clients best interests. 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
At the time the advice was given Portal knew that this pension pot was Mr Bs only pension 
provision. It also knew he had no other savings and little prospect of replacing these pension 
funds if the investments recommended underperformed or failed.
Portal says:Mr B required access to his pension funds and his maximum tax-free cash entitlement. This 
was discussed during a fact-find appointment with him on 1st August 2011. Mr B required 
the funds to help buy a car and to pay off some debt.
I appreciate that Mr B may have been interested in accessing his tax-free cash when Portal 
explained that this was a possibility. But I am not satisfied that the risks and disadvantages 
of this course of action were made adequately clear to Mr B.
I accept that Portal provided warnings on the guarantees Mr B was giving up. But, as Portal 
will appreciate, risk warnings alone dont make unsuitable advice suitable. It needed to be 
satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that giving up the guarantees and taking on 
the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr B.
Mr Bs accrued pension provision was intended to provide for his retirement and the 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily  Mr Bs best interests in 
terms of his retirement needs. I am not satisfied that the adviser adequately took account of 
this when advising Mr B to transfer his DB benefits.
I would only expect an adviser to recommend taking the benefits for something other than 
retirement as a last resort, after all other options had been considered. In Mr Bs case, I note 
that the suitability report set out that Mr B didnt want to take out another loan, or re-
mortgage his home, but I cant see anything that shows the adviser encouraged Mr B to 
explore these options or queried why Mr B didnt want to look into re-broking his unsecured 
debts or securing the debt against his property. As this is the case, I am not satisfied that the 
adviser took adequate steps to fully explore other ways of meeting Mr Bs needs.
I think that if Mr B had fully understood the risks involved and the possibility that he would be 
left significantly worse off if he transferred his DB benefits, he would not have gone ahead 
with the advice to transfer.
Portal also says:
the critical yield of 6.3% versus the discount rate suggested of 5.5% and the regulators 
published projection rates of 5% (Lower), 7% (middle) and 9% (upper). As Mr B was 
assessed as a medium to low-risk investor, the middle range projection of 7% was certainly 
more than achievable on the open market and was higher than the critical yield of 6.3%. 
Although the transfer advice was not and should not, be solely based on the critical yield, the 
adviser did not consider the growth rate required to be so high that it was untransferable.
As the investigator set out, in order to match the benefits Mr B would be entitled to from the 
occupational scheme he was being advised to give up, the growth required was 6.3% each 
year.
The closest discount rate published by this service for the period was 5.5% per year for a 
consumer with 9 years to retirement. So, in order to match (not better) the benefits Mr B was 
being advised to give up, his pension pot would need to grow by at least 0.8% more each 
year than the growth rate considered reasonably achievable.
I am mindful that Portal says the middle range projection of 7% was certainly more than 
achievable on the open market, but I think the prospect of an alternative arrangement not 
matching the scheme benefits, in monetary terms, on the basis of reasonable assumptions 
made it all the more important that the other reasons for transferring were sufficiently 
compelling. 
I am not persuaded that the need to access a lump sum from his pension pot was sufficiently 
important that it outweighed the investment risk Mr B was being advised to take on. In reaching this view I have taken into account that Mr B had little or no prospect of replacing 
any losses suffered if the investments in his SIPP did not perform as expected.
I think, if properly discussed, Mr B would have understood that in order to meet his objective 
of accessing his tax-free cash to pay off debts and buy a car, he was being advised to 
give up important guaranteed benefits. And I think he would have taken steps to investigate 
re-structuring his finances rather than transferring his accrued DB benefits to a SIPP.
Investments held in SIPP
I note that in its response to the investigators view Portal did not make any comments in 
response to the points made about the investments it advised Mr B to hold in his SIPP. As 
this is the case, I have not reconsidered this aspect of Mr Bs complaint. 
I would simply reiterate the investigators view that the UCIS and higher risk investments 
Portal recommended were not suitable for a consumer with no capacity for loss and a 
moderately cautious attitude to investment risk. 
I also note that Mr Bs SIPP is valued at around £1, so even if Portals adviser felt at the time 
the advice was given that 7% was certainly more than achievable on the open market this 
has certainly not proved to be the case for the funds Mr B was advised to invest in.
Summary 
Having carefully considered this complaint I dont think, based on the available evidence, 
that Mr Bs objective of taking tax-free cash to help buy a car and to pay off some debt was 
a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr B to give up valuable benefit guarantees.
And I think, if Portal had made clear to Mr B that in order to meet his objective to access his 
tax-free cash, he was being advised to give up important guaranteed benefits and that he 
would receive a future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns 
he would not have gone ahead with the transfer.
Although I am mindful of the comments Portal has made about the critical yield, I think it is 
usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. The critical yield 
was, based upon the growth rates deemed achievable by this service at that time, unlikely to 
be achievable, to even match the scheme benefits Mr B was being advised to give up.
I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of 
a transfer, but I am not satisfied that what Portal considered to have been adequate 
justification for recommending the transfer was sufficiently important when weighted against 
the guarantees Mr B was advised to relinquish.
Having carefully considered this matter my decision is that the recommendation to transfer 
wasnt suitable for Mr B, nor was it in his best interests. 
I am also mindful that in order for the transfer to go-ahead Mr B may have needed to opt-out 
of his employers DB pension scheme as it appears he was still working for his employer on 
a part-time basis at the time the advice was given. As Mr Bs representative has not raised 
any concerns about this, I have assumed that if Mr B did opt-out he promptly re-joined his 
employers pension scheme after the transfer of his accrued benefits went ahead.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal Financial Services LLP must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. As Mr B has already taken 25% tax-free 
cash the remaining 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal 
Financial Services LLP. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it 
cannot be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears 
to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal Financial Services LLP should agree an amount with 
the SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any 
costs, and take ownership of the investment. If Portal Financial Services LLP is unable to 
buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. 
The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include anything Portal Financial 
Services LLP has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the 
SIPP should be deducted.In return for this, Portal Financial Services LLP may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal 
Financial Services LLP will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal 
Financial Services LLP asks Mr B to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
It appears that the SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP 
to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed 
from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal Financial Services 
LLP taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr B can discuss with his SIPP 
provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal Financial Services LLP pay Mr B an upfront 
lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years 
fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be 
closed.
Portal should also pay Mr B £400 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In order to put matters right Portal Financial Services LLP should calculate and pay the 
redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman