DRN-3723953
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about issues that occurred when they attempted to take 
advantage of a £125 incentive to switch their current account to Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide).
What happened
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs C attempted to switch their current account online from a 
different provider to Nationwide. The intention of this was to change provider and receive a 
£125 incentive that Nationwide offered at the time for people who switched their current 
account to them.
Part way through the process there was an error. Mr and Mrs C contacted the online chat of 
Nationwide and was told that they would need to re-submit their application. Mr and Mrs C 
did not want to do this as it would result in a further credit check.
They later received a text from Nationwide the result of which meant that Mr and Mrs C 
attended a Nationwide branch and completed some additional paperwork.
After this Mr and Mrs C received a further text saying that the paperwork for the account had 
been sent to them. When no paperwork was received Mr and Mrs C again attended a branch 
of Nationwide at which point, they found out that the text message was an error and the 
application had not been processed. They were told that a further application would need to 
be completed for them to receive the £125 incentive.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this and complained to Nationwide. In response 
Nationwide offered Mr and Mrs C £50 to rectify this matter and has removed any records of 
the current account application from Mr and Mrs Cs credit file. Nationwide also clarified that 
Mr and Mrs C would be able to apply again for a current account switch if they wished to and 
receive the £125 if they met the criteria. Mr and Mrs C did not accept this as they believe 
they should receive the £125 plus compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by this issue.
One of our adjudicators looked into this matter she thought that what Nationwide had agreed 
to do was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so their complaint was put forward 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will address the issues with the current account transfer application. From what I 
can see, it is clear that there was an error during the application process, though it is not 
completely clear what caused this error. It is also clear that Nationwide sent texts in error 
which suggested that the application process was continuing and this caused Mr and Mrs C 
to attend a Nationwide branch on two occasions. Having carefully considered everything in 
relation to this I am satisfied that a measure of compensation is merited for this. Nationwide 
have offered £50 and I think that this is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused during the switching process.
In relation to the £125 switching incentive, in this instance Nationwide have clarified that Mr 
and Mrs C would still be entitled to receive this incentive if they applied to switch their current 
account from a different provider to them. I note that Mr and Mrs C do not wish to do this as 
they say they have lost confidence in Nationwide being their main current account provider. 
This is perhaps understandable and is Mr and Mrs Cs choice. That said, current account 
switching incentives are designed to bring new business to current account providers by 
enticing consumers who hold current accounts with other providers to switch their account to 
the provider offering the incentive. I do not think that it would be reasonable for Nationwide 
to have to pay Mr and Mrs C the switching incentive if ultimately Mr and Mrs C no longer 
wish to transfer their account to Nationwide. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the offer of £50 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect the 
issues during the switching process. I also do not believe that Nationwide need to do 
anything more to put matters right in relation to this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs C £50 to reflect 
the issues they had applying to switch their current account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman