DRN-2751402
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC wont refund disputed transactions 
which were carried out on his account. And hed like these refunded. Hes also unhappy that 
the bank restricted his access to benefit payments. 
What happened
Mr C had an account with RBS. 
In July 2020 Mr C received a telephone call from RBS asking him to confirm if hed carried 
out a payment to a gambling website Ill call P. Mr C advised RBS he wasnt aware of this 
payment and hed not made any of the recent online payments which had taken place on his 
account. The majority of these were via two gambling websites. 
RBS investigated but decided not to refund the disputed transactions. In response they said:
Theyd contacted the two gambling websites, P and B and the details matched Mr C.
They think its likely Mr C carried out the disputed transactions. 
Mr C wasnt happy with RBSs response so complained to our service. Initially he explained 
that hes not shared his personal account details with anyone else, and hes never had 
online accounts with P or B and he doesnt gamble. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. They asked Mr C further questions, 
where he provided slightly different answers to before. Mr C explained that on a high number 
of occasions his card had been compromised and on two occasions when ordering new 
cards his card didnt arrive  hed raised concerns with the bank about this. And he thinks 
this might be how his account was compromised. On being asked about earlier online 
gambling transactions with P and B which took place between 2016 and 2020 Mr C also 
confirmed these were fraudulent. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary they found it surprising a 
fraudster would set up gambling accounts in Mr Cs name. And on balance thought he most 
likely authorised the transactions. They also contacted RBS to make arrangements 
regarding the release of Mr Cs benefit payments. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators conclusion. And said:
A friend of a friend could have carried them out.
He doesnt have online gambling accounts with either provider  has either provider 
shown his identification?
He didnt carry out the transactions. 
Why didnt the bank contact him during the unusual activity?
As Mr C didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
 
Generally, RBS can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable RBS to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the transactions 
being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for RBS to conclude that Mr C authorised 
the transactions. This is because:
Most of the disputed transactions were made to online gambling sites with P and B. 
RBS have provided evidence that theyve contacted both providers and both 
accounts are registered in Mr Cs name  with the majority of the personal details 
matching. I find it unusual that the accounts were set up with the same contact 
details as Mr C. 
Between 2018 and 2020 Mr C was issued with a total of six debit cards for his 
account. For a fraudster to carry out the disputed transactions, starting in 2016, 
theyd need access to these cards. And Ive not seen a plausible explanation for how 
this was possible without Mr Cs knowledge.
Both gambling accounts with P and B were set up in 2016  Id have expected, if a 
fraudster had set up these accounts, they spend more funds at a faster rate.
 
Its unusual for a fraudster to carry out gambling transactions when gaining access to 
a victims card details considering theres no opportunity for financial gain. Ive also 
seen evidence of credits from the same gambling companies into Mr Cs account and 
Id question why a fraudster would do this. 
I find it surprising Mr C didnt notice the disputed transactions sooner, considering the 
first transactions were carried out in 2016. 
Mr C responded to our investigators view with a number of further points including why 
didnt RBS contact him considering the large and unusual nature of the transactions. Ive 
considered Mr Cs point here, but Im firstly not satisfied the transactions were necessarily 
that unusual for Mr C  hes carried out previously undisputed activity to the same 
merchants. And secondly as I think on balance Mr C carried out the transactions even if I 
thought RBS should have contacted him I wouldnt be able to reasonably conclude the 
disputed transactions would have been prevented. And Mr C should be refunded. For this 
reason this doesnt change my assessment of Mr Cs case.
 For the reasons Ive outlined above and taking everything into account, I find, on balance, 
that Mr C authorised the disputed transactions. It follows that RBS is entitled to hold him 
liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman