DRN-1915366
The complaint
Mr H complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) 
transferred his loan accounts to a debt collection agency without warning.
What happened
Mr H took out two loans with Satsuma in early 2018. The first loan was for £1,000, and 
started in February 2018. The second loan was for £100 and started in April 2018.
Mr H made the first monthly repayment on the £1,000 loan on time, in April 2018. But in May 
2018 he contacted Satsuma to say hed be unable to make his loan repayments the 
following day. Satsumas notes of the call say that it agreed to put a 30-day breathing 
space on Mr Hs accounts, and it told him what it could do to help if he had further 
problems.
In early June 2018 Mr H told Satsuma he was still struggling and asked if the breathing 
space could be extended. After discussion, a repayment plan was set up, under which Mr H 
would pay £1 per month towards each loan for three months. Satsuma emailed Mr H and 
confirmed that the arrangement was to manually pay £1 on 2 August, 2 September and 
2 October 2018. It explained that after that, it would need to contact Mr H for an update. 
Satsumas records say that a few days after the first of the payments under the three-month 
agreement was due, in August 2018, Mr H asked it to take the £1 payment as agreed. But it 
explained that it didnt currently have a card registered for automatic collection. It said it 
could reinstate a card that Mr H had previously used, or set up a new one. And Mr H told it a 
new card would be needed. He then made the missed payment (that had been due the 
previous week) on each account.
According to Satsumas records, Mr H phoned it on 11 October 2018 to discuss a notice of 
default letter it had sent him. Satsuma explained that the payment arrangement was no 
longer in place. After discussion with Mr H, a further arrangement to pay £1 per month was 
set up on each account. Satsumas notes of the conversation say that Mr H told it he should 
be in a position to increase his payments in the next few months.
The payments of £1 per month continued to be made on time up to and including October 
2019. It looks, from Satsumas records, as if the September and October 2019 payments 
were made manually, online, by Mr H. But the monthly repayments were missed in 
November and December 2019. Satsuma then removed the agreements to pay from both 
accounts and transferred them to the debt collection agent.
In December 2019 Mr H contacted Satsuma to complain that it hadnt contacted him about 
the missed payments on his account before sending it to a debt collection agent. And when 
Satsuma didnt resolve his complaint to his satisfaction, he contacted us.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
said that Satsuma had transferred Mr Hs account to the debt collection agency because it 
didnt receive any payments from him after October 2019. And she didnt think it had been 
unfair to do this.
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has pointed out that on previous occasions, Satsuma had taken his payment 
automatically, and had contacted him if, for any reason, this hadnt happened. He says that 
Satsuma didnt communicate with him at all about the two missed payments until it was too 
late, and it had transferred the account to the debt collection agency. Hes says he gave 
Satsuma new card details in August 2019 and it then failed to take payments in September 
and October 2019. 
But although I can see that Mr H and Satsuma spoke about providing new payment card 
details, and setting up a new continuous payment authority for his monthly payments, in 
August 2018, I can see no record of any such discussion in August 2019. As Ive 
commented above, it looks as if Mr H made the £1 payments manually to each loan account 
in September and October 2019. No further payments were made after that.
When Satsuma sent Mr H the default notice in 2018, he hadnt made the payments due 
under the loan agreements for around six months. And although Mr H told Satsuma in 
October 2018 that he expected to be able to increase his repayments soon, he didnt contact 
it further about this. 
By the time Satsuma transferred Mr Hs accounts to the debt collection agency it was more 
than 18 months since hed made a scheduled payment under the first loan agreement. And 
hed never made any of the scheduled payments due under the second loan agreement. 
Satsuma was entitled to take the decision to transfer Mr Hs accounts to a debt collection 
agency, and it would have been entitled to decide to do so even if Mr H hadnt fallen behind 
with the £1 per month payments.
I can understand why Mr H is frustrated that Satsuma didnt contact him about the missed 
payments before transferring his accounts to the debt collection agency. But although he 
might have made the missing payments if Satsuma had contacted him, I dont find, in all the 
circumstances, that it was wrong to transfer the debt. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman