DRN-3803213
The complaint
Ms B says that when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy, the garage West Bay 
Insurance Plc arranged to repair her vehicle didnt fully assess it, which caused a breakdown 
and the need for significant further repairs. 
What happened
Ms Bs truck was hit by a deer to its front whilst she was driving, causing moderate damage. 
It was assessed by garage A in November 2021 and was repaired in January 2022. Ms B 
had driven it 100 miles towards her home when a warning light came on. She then noticed 
smoke under the bonnet. The next day she found there was no coolant in the engine.
 
A local garage (garage Z) checked the vehicle. On 11 February 2022 it sent a report to 
West Bay. It said it suspected a head gasket failure. It said compression in three of the 
cylinders was low, that the radiator was leaking, the coolant was low and that other tests 
needed to be done. Ms B said this showed garage A hadnt checked the radiator properly for 
damage (with a pressure test) or that the level of coolant was adequate. 
West Bay said there was no reason for garage A to drain / replace the coolant. It said the 
radiator didnt seem to be damaged. It didnt accept that the later damage to Ms Bs vehicle 
was caused by the accident or by poor repairs. It said garage A replaced any damaged 
parts. It said garage Z thought the problem was a head gasket failure -  which would have 
caused the radiator to split due to pressure, allowing the coolant to escape. Garage Z also 
said the split in the radiator was to its rear - and that there was no impact damage to it.   
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Bs complaint. He thought the fact that a problem had 
arisen whilst she was driving home from garage A suggested that the issue was present at 
the time of the repairs. As there was much damage to the front of the vehicle, he thought a 
more thorough check of the radiator should have been done. He said Ms B had shown shed 
recently topped up the coolant and that her vehicle had a full-service history. So he thought it 
was more likely than not that the fault was the result of impact damage. He said West Bay 
should repair the vehicle (or pay Ms B to get it repaired) and ensure she had a replacement 
vehicle. He also thought West Bay should pay Ms B £150 compensation.   
 
West Bay pointed out that the view of Ms Bs local repairer didnt support her case. The 
investigator said garage A hadnt shown it checked the level of coolant  and if it was low 
(despite Ms B stating shed recently topped it up) that would cause pressure in the engine. 
West Bay then contacted garage A and it confirmed it had checked the coolant level, as well 
as checking visually for damage to or leaks from the radiator. 
The investigators opinion remained the same (although he noted that a head gasket could 
fail at any time in an older vehicle with high mileage, such as Ms Bs). West Bays senior 
engineer later commented on the case. He said there was no evidence of fluid loss whilst the 
vehicle was with garage A, even when it was tested with the engine running. He said had 
there been impact damage to the radiator, the loss of fluid would have been instant  yet Ms 
B was able to drive 100 miles before a warning light came on. West Bay remained of the 
view that the evidence didnt show the problem was probably caused by garage As failure to 
properly check the radiator or the coolant.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, as follows:
I dont think Ms B has been able to show that the radiator was damaged in the impact. I 
know she thought she could see damage to it, but it seems the damaged part she was 
looking at was the air conditioning condenser, according to West Bays engineer. Radiators 
are often damaged when theres a front-end impact, so I understand why Ms B thought 
damage to it was likely. But theres no evidence that it actually occurred. Garage A didnt 
think it showed any sign of impact damage, although it replaced other parts adjacent to the 
radiator. Ms B assumed it had simply missed the damage, as she thought it did the repair 
work in a rush. But later on, garage Z also said there was no impact damage. 
The other error garage A could have made was with the engine coolant. Ms B says she 
topped it up just before the accident. I dont think theres any compelling evidence of that. 
But taking Ms B at her word, if thats what happened, it fits with what garage A told West Bay 
when asked  that the level of coolant was adequate when checked. 
If there wasnt a hole or a crack in the radiator at the time, the coolant couldnt have leaked 
out. Ms B has suggested that garage A may not have replenished the coolant when it 
replaced the inter-cooler. But thats an assumption, and the garage says the coolant level 
was checked.  West Bays senior engineer says a loss of fluid would have been noted 
straight away. Presumably, in the absence of coolant, the engine would have overheated 
when the garage switched the engine on and took the vehicle for a test drive. And West Bay 
says that, with little or no coolant in the engine, Ms B would not have been able to drive the 
vehicle for 100 miles without a problem becoming apparent, which seems to be a reasonable 
argument. 
 West Bay says garage Z found the cylinder pressure and the coolant level to be low 
because the head gasket blew at some point. It thinks that caused a crack in the radiator 
and the leakage of coolant  hence the warning light and smoke from the engine 100 miles 
into Ms Bs journey. It believes it was coincidental that the head gasket failure happened just 
after the repairs were carried out by garage A.  As far as I can see, theres nothing to show 
the radiator had a leak before the head gasket blew. I know Ms B doesnt think its likely in 
this case, but head gaskets can fail at any time, especially on older vehicles, no matter how 
reliable theyve been until that point. 
In my opinion, Ms B hasnt been able to show that its more likely than not that the damage 
shes claiming for was due to garage As poor repairs. West Bay suggested to her in March 
2022 that she could provide an engineers report in support of her case, which it would have 
considered, but she said it already had garage Zs view. Ms B has said since then that 
several garages / mechanics agree with her that the damage to the radiator would have 
been impact-related, and that garage A should have carried out a pressure test on it. But I 
havent seen any formal reports setting out these views.  
 
I know Ms B has been seriously affected by having the vehicle off the road. I sympathise 
greatly with her, given the situation shes had to cope with. But Im minded to conclude that, 
as the evidence Ive seen so far doesnt show that West Bays garage was at fault, I cant 
uphold her complaint.    
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. West Bay didnt respond and 
neither did Ms B.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither of the parties has made any comment on my provisional findings, theres no 
reason to consider departing from them. So, based on the reasons set out above, Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman