DRN-2115619
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that BW Legal Services Limited pursued him for debts that werent his. He 
says he was the victim of identity theft and its unfair for BW Legal to hold him responsible 
for loans he didnt take out. Mr P also complains about BW Legals verification process and 
customer service. 
What happened
BW Legal has been pursuing Mr P for two debts on behalf of its client, who I will refer to as 
D. The debts related to two payday loans that had been taken out with lenders Ill call L1 and 
L2 in May 2013.
Mr P says he was first contacted by BW Legal in early 2017. In July 2017, he told BW Legal 
that hed never taken out the loans and believed hed been the victim of identity fraud. And 
that he was unhappy about being pursued for debts that werent his.
 
BW Legal provided Mr P with paperwork, which it said showed hed taken out the loans. And 
it asked Mr P to provide information to support what hed said about the loans being taken 
out fraudulently. But Mr P didnt provide anything. So, BW Legal continued to pursue Mr P 
for the debts until January 2020 when D told them to close the accounts because the debt 
had become statute barred. And D had decided not to pursue Mr P for the debts. 
Mr Ps unhappy that each time he rang BW Legal asked him to provide his date of birth as 
part of a verification process. He says he was uncomfortable providing the information as 
hed been a victim of fraud. Mr P also says BW Legal didnt respond to his request to speak 
to a manager and didnt properly comply with a subject access request he submitted. Mr P 
says he has been caused a great deal of stress and upset by BW Legal pursuing him for 
debts he says are not his. So, he wants compensation.
BW Legal said the information it had obtained about the loans showed Mr P was liable for 
the debts. It explained that it asks customers for their date of births as part of its data 
protection checks and always responded to contact from Mr P. BW Legal accepted that they 
had been a delay in complying with Mr Ps SAR and had apologised.  It said the delay was 
due to an administrative error. 
Unhappy with this response Mr P brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things for him. The investigator made enquiries with BW Legal, 
Mr P, the lenders and the bank the loans had been paid into. He established that both loans 
had been paid into Mr Ps bank account. So, he concluded that Mr P was responsible for the 
debts and BW Legal hadnt been wrong when it pursued him to repay the money owed.  
The investigator didnt think BW Legal asking Mr P for his date of birth was unreasonable 
and was part of its verification process. He acknowledged that there had been a delay in BW 
Legal complying with Mr Ps SAR but said Mr P should contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). So, he didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P disagreed. He 
maintained he never took out the loans.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
did Mr P take out the loans in 2013?
Based on the evidence, there are only two likely possibilities in this case. They are either 
that Mr P took out the loans or as Mr P has suggested someone else did. And hes been the 
victim of fraud. So, I need to decide, whether Mr P applied for the loans.
 
To help reach my decision Ive considered:
The applications for each loan
The loan agreements 
The contact between Mr P and the lenders and 
The account the monies were paid into
Ive seen the information in both applications, which are dated 3 and 31 May 2013 which 
have been provided by L1 and L2. They include Mr Ps full name, his postal address, his 
email address, contact numbers, his employment history and salary, outgoings and his bank 
account details. The applications also include how long Mr P had lived at his address, length 
of employment and other loans hed taken out with the lenders over the years. In my view, 
only Mr P, or someone close to him would know this level of detail. 
I also note that the loan applications were emailed to Mr P to sign. If Mr P didnt take out the 
loans, and a fraudster did, I think that using Mr Ps email address to complete the application 
was a risky step to take, as there was an opportunity of being caught if Mr P happened to 
open the emails. The investigator has also confirmed that the bank account the monies were 
paid into was in Mr Ps name. I dont think its likely that a third party would be happy for the 
loan funds to be paid into an account if they werent going to be able to access the money. 
And Mr P hasnt told us that anyone else would have had access to his bank account at the 
time. 
Ive also looked at the contact notes between Mr P and the lenders at the time of the loan 
applications. I can see that the lenders were speaking to Mr P on his phone numbers about 
arrears and that Mr P agreed to double payments to g his account back on track. And at one 
stage a default notice was sent to his home address. Like the investigator, I think if Mr P 
hadnt taken out the loans receiving a default notice wouldve prompted him to contact the 
lenders, but I cant see that Mr P did this.
Mr P says he has been the victim of identity fraud. But he hasnt provided any evidence to 
support what hes said despite being given opportunities by this service and BW Legal. So, 
when I weigh everything up, I think its more likely than not that Mr P made the loan 
applications. And that he knew about the loans. So, I cant say BW Legal have acted unfairly 
in holding Mr P liable for the debts.
I know Mr P has argued that the loans were statute barred, so he says BW Legal should not 
have pursued him. But, its not for this service to determine whether the debt was statute 
barred. Only a court can do that. My role is to determine whether BW Legal has treated Mr P fairly and reasonably in pursuing him for the debts. And for the reasons Ive already 
explained I think it was reasonable for BW Legal to continue to chase the debts at the time of 
his complaint, and I dont find they did anything wrong here. However, I note that since then, 
things have changed, and BW Legal have let us know that C has decided to no longer 
pursue Mr P for the debts due to the time that has now passed.   
verification process
Mr P has queried the questions he was asked by BW Legal as part of its verification process 
every time, he called them  in particular that he had to provide his date of birth. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest BW Legal has acted unfairly or outside its usual process 
here. BW Legal is entitled to decide on the procedures it uses to verify account holders, 
which is used to protect customers. BW Legal needs to make sure it is speaking to the 
account holder. So, I dont think I can reasonably say it did anything wrong when it asked Mr 
P to provide his date of birth so that it could verify his identity. I note that Mr P says he was 
uncomfortable providing his date of birth as he says he was a victim of identify fraud, but as 
Ive already explained Im satisfied that this wasnt the case. So, his concerns were 
unfounded.
 
contact from a manager
Mr P says that he wasnt able to speak to a manager at BW Legal when he got in contact to 
try and sort things out on 19 August 2019. Ive looked at the contact notes provided by BW 
Legal and I can see that whilst Mr P wasnt able to talk to a Manager on that day, he was 
promised that a Manager would call him back.  I can see that this is what happened on 12 
August 2019 when a Manager tried to contact Mr P. Unfortunately, Mr P wasnt available, but 
he did speak to a Manager on 24 August 2019. So, Im satisfied BW Legal complied with Mr 
Ps request. From looking at the chronology of the contact between Mr P and BW Legal, Im 
also satisfied that BW Legal responded to any contact from Mr P and attempted to work with 
him to try and resolve the matter and address any queries or concerns he had. So, I cant 
say BW Legal has done anything wrong here. 
subject access request
Mr P says BW legal didnt comply with his SAR within 30 days. But as the investigator has 
already explained to Mr P, data protection issues are a matter for ICO, not this service. I 
wont decide whether data protection law has been breached or whether there is outstanding 
information not supplied to Mr P. The ICO is better placed than this service to look at BW 
Legals handling of Mr Ps SAR. So, Mr P should contact the ICO if he wishes to pursue the 
matter further. 
In summary, I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont believe BW Legal 
treated Mr P unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I do not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
BW Legal Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman