DRN-2725157
The complaint
V complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt settle their claim for damage to their 
rental property under its landlords insurance policy. It followed a break-in to their property 
and UKI thought their tenant was involved in some way with the cultivation of cannabis.
What happened
V owned a rental property that was broken in to. The neighbours noticed the bottom window 
of the back door had been smashed. As they hadnt recently seen the tenant, they reported it 
to the police. V said when the police investigated, they found the property had been used for 
cultivating cannabis. V said the activity had not been carried out by his lawful tenant. V said 
both the tenant and the people who had been growing the cannabis had not been seen 
again after the break-in.
V said it first made a claim on their policy for damage caused to the house by the cultivation 
of cannabis and the break-in. UKI said the damage from the cultivation of cannabis wasnt 
covered by its policy, so V then only claimed for the damage caused by the break-in. It said 
this damage was not carried out by people who had a legal reason for being in the house.
UKI said they would only consider the claim for the damage to the broken door, but not the 
damage inside the house as they said it was caused by the cultivation of cannabis. V said 
the break in made the house inhabitable. 
UKI said: I believe in the balance of probability your tenant was involved in the cultivation of 
cannabis or was at very least aware and granted access to third parties to enter the 
property. I can confirm that your policy does not provide any cover for Theft or Malicious 
Damage by Tenants extension.
Our investigator reviewed the case and his view was to uphold the complaint as he didnt 
think UKI had provided enough evidence that either the tenant cultivated the cannabis, or 
they gave permission for the third parties to be on the premises. UKI disagreed as it thought 
there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the tenant was either responsible or aware of 
the property being used for the purpose. Therefore, the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 10 March 2021. I said:
V has said there are two separate causes of damage to the property, the break-in and 
separately the cultivation of cannabis. His current claim is for the break-in to the property 
which he says caused extensive damage. Unfortunately, the police report is not available in 
the case file. However, UKIs appointed loss adjuster said they think the wide spread 
damage caused to the property is from the cultivation of cannabis. I find their commentary of 
the damage to be persuasive and consider the claim for damage to the property as 
principally about the cultivation of cannabis. UKI have agreed to pay V for the damage to the 
front door which I think is fair given they think the rest of the damage was caused by the 
cultivation of cannabis. I need to look at the wider details of the case to see if UKI have been 
fair in declining the rest of the claim.
As the loss adjuster concluded the damage was caused by the cultivation of cannabis, UKI 
declined Vs claim as they said it was not covered by its policy due to an exclusion clause. 
When an insurer relies on an exclusion clause, the onus is on them to prove that the 
exclusion is relevant to the claim. UKI have relied on the following exclusion clause to 
decline the claim.
6 Malicious Persons or vandals, excluding Damage:
h caused by Your Employees, tenants or any other
persons lawfully in Your premises.
Given that UKI have relied on this clause, I think it is fair to assume they have accepted the 
damage to the property was caused by malicious persons i.e. the person who damaged the 
property intended to do harm. So, I need to check they have applied the exclusion fairly. I 
will look at the evidence provided by UKI that supports their conclusion.
UKI thought that in the balance of probability that all of the evidence suggests the tenant 
was either responsible for or aware of the cannabis farm. UKI presented various 
observations:
the tenant paid 4 months rent in cash in advance, which they said is a very 
common arrangement for the illegal cultivation of cannabis
all of the locks were changed, which suggests the tenant was responsible or a third 
party known to the tenant was responsible
since the discovery of the cannabis farm, the tenant has disappeared and can not be 
traced
I agree with UKI that these circumstances look suspicious and I think UKI have already 
succinctly explained why these circumstances make it look like the tenant was involved 
directly or knew the people who were cultivating the cannabis.
Having looked at other information in the case file, I think there is further evidence that when 
added to the evidence UKI provided paints a compelling case that it is most likely the tenant 
was involved in some way, which confirms to me UKI were right to rely on the exclusion 
clause.
V have said that their tenant rented for a whole year before extending their tenancy. Around 
three weeks after this renewal, the police identified the cannabis farm. V said:  
X continued as our legal tenant once the initial 12-month period had expired, as was 
permitted under our tenancy agreement with her. However, it would appear that X did 
not live at the property since there is no evidence that she registered herself with any 
authority or service suppliers, unlike the squatters / illegal sub-tenants we refer to 
above. X was the only person who was lawfully allowed to live in the property; she 
had no rights to either sublet or allow others to occupy the property. It is extremely 
unlikely that she caused any of the damage referred to above.
I find this statement interesting, as V says it appeared that the tenant hasnt lived at the 
property for the entire 12 months of the original tenancy, as the tenant hadnt registered with 
any authority or energy suppliers. But this seems to contradict what V told the loss adjuster 
that their tenant was in regular contact confirming all was well with the property and 
maintaining regular rental payments. I dont think it likely that someone would rent out a 
property for 12 months and then decide not to live there. I think it is even stranger that 
having not lived there for 12 months they would decide to rent it for a further 4 months and 
still not live there unless it was for some other reason, which may include sub-letting out.If the tenant never lived at the property, it suggests that the tenant provided access to other 
parties in order for the locks to be changed. What other purpose would the tenant have to 
change the locks if they werent living their themselves? I think it is most likely the tenant 
rented the property knowing that it was going to be sub-let, they may have known it would be 
used for illegal activity.
The new tenancy period only commenced three weeks before the police identified the 
cannabis farm. V has not been able to provide evidence that the same tenant rented their 
property throughout this period. UKI asked several times for V to send over the signed 
tenancy agreement for this later period, but it was never produced. Its also notable that the 
tenant changed their payment approach from regular payments in the first period to a lump 
cash sum in the second period. So, whilst V has said the same tenant was in place for the 
whole period, this hasnt been evidenced and that casts further doubt in my mind.
It is for these reasons that the evidence leads me to think the circumstances are suspicious 
and to think the tenant was involved in the cultivation of cannabis or at least gave access to 
the property for others to take part in the activity. Therefore, as this was an exclusion to Vs 
policy, I intend not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI have accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
V disagrees with my provisional decision. It maintains that there were two incidents, with 
damage caused by the cultivation of cannabis and separately damage caused by a break in. 
It said it was only claiming for the damage from a break in and said it was not carried out by 
people who had a legal reason for being in the house. V has explained why it thinks there 
was separate damage from a break in.
V has also clarified that UKI has only settled for the damage to the front door lock and not 
the whole door and says that as its excess was greater than the value of damage, this meant 
it did not actually receive any cash settlement.
V also confirmed that they had seen the Police report for the incident and explained Despite 
the police turning up for this break in they decided to record this crime as a drugs crime 
when it was clearly 2 crimes, both a drugs crime and a break in.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Vs response to my provisional decision and I can see its disappointed with 
my decision. However, I havent seen any new evidence that has changed my mind and so, 
my final decision is not to uphold this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision.
At the time of writing my provisional decision, I didnt have access to information in the 
Police Report for the incident. From what V said in their response, the Police has recorded 
the crime as a drugs crime, which is consistent with the report from UKIs appointed loss 
adjuster. The damage to the property was caused by the cultivation of cannabis.As I have already set out, the evidence leads me to think the circumstances are suspicious 
and to think the tenant was involved in the cultivation of cannabis or at least gave access to 
the property for others to take part in the activity. Therefore, as this was an exclusion to Vs 
policy, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont intend to require UK Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V and V to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman