DRN-3134004
The complaint
Mr W complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a fair settlement for his claim 
following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr Ws car was stolen. Mr W is unhappy that the settlement paid by UKI is less than the 
price he paid for his car. He feels the amount paid doesnt take into account current market 
conditions and says hes unable to replace his car with the settlement UKI paid.
UKI has explained that its settlement of Mr Ws claim was based on the market value of 
Mr Ws car. It initially offered £21,280 but this was increased to £23,500 following information 
provided by Mr W and a review by its in-house engineer. Its engineer also utilised two of the 
recognised industry trade guides when calculating the market value of Mr Ws car.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She thought UKI had paid a 
reasonable settlement for Mr Ws car after considering the recognised industry guides, and 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy.  
Mr W didn't accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that the loss of Mr Ws car will have been distressing. I can also understand 
Mr Ws disappointment, as he believes that he hasnt received a fair valuation. But I should 
explain that my role is not to value Mr Ws car. What I need to decide is whether UKI has 
settled his claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
UKI accepted Mr Ws claim following the theft of his car. The terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
policy say that his car is insured on a market value basis. Market value is defined in the 
policy as: 
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.. 
UKI valued Mr Ws car at £23,500. In reaching this value, UKI says it relied on two of the 
same recognised industry guides our service typically uses when assessing complaints 
about fair market value. It has provided screenshots to show that these valuations were:
Glasss - £23,250
CAP  £23,750
UKI took the average of these valuations and paid that amount, less the policy excess, to 
Mr W. It says no deductions were made as the car was considered to have been in a good 
condition.
Mr W has provided several adverts showing cars of the same model and condition being 
advertised for a higher cost than the settlement paid by UKI. But our service doesnt 
generally find second-hand car adverts persuasive when assessing the market value of a 
car. This is because the advertised price is what the seller would like to achieve and is often 
the starting point of a negotiation as opposed to the actual sale value. 
Our services approach when considering complaints about fair market value takes into 
account what the motor trade guides say the market value is. These are used across the 
motor industry when valuing second-hand cars. We find these guides to be particularly 
persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely 
sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. Were confident these 
guides give a good reflection of the true market value of a car.
 
In addition to the two trade guide valuations supplied by UKI, I have also checked a third 
guide  Cazana. This returned a valuation of £23,809. This means the valuation arrived at by 
UKI is within the range of the valuations provided by the three leading motor trade guides. 
So, taking everything into account, I think the valuation UKI reached is in line with the terms 
of the policy and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It follows that I wont be asking UKI to increase the value it placed on Mr Ws car.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr W's complaint about UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman