DRN-3105398
The complaint
Mr Ns complained that TFS Loans Limited, trading as TFS Loans (TFS) were irresponsible 
in lending him money, because they didnt take into account other debts or his gambling.  
What happened
Mr N borrowed £5,000 from TFS in April 2019. Towards the end of that year, he complained 
to TFS that they should never have lent to him, because he had other debts and issues with 
gambling.
TFS investigated Mr Ns complaint and upheld it in part. In their response, they set out what 
theyd done to get information about Mr Ns financial position and how theyd assessed he 
could afford the loan. They said that theyd asked Mr N for information about other debts, but 
he hadnt disclosed anything. Nor had he told them about his gambling problem. And hed 
confirmed several times that the information TFS was relying on was correct.
But TFS did say they could have requested copies of Mr Ns bank statements to check his 
financial situation more thoroughly. Because of this they offered to reduce the interest on his 
loan by 50%, which reduced Mr Ns monthly repayments from £174.50 to £120.87. And they 
gave him an immediate payment holiday of three months, as well as extending the term by 
three months so the cost to Mr N didnt increase.
Mr N referred his complaint to us. Our investigator considered it and concluded TFS 
shouldnt have lent to Mr N.  He said that, had TFS requested Mr Ns bank statements  as 
theyd accepted they should  they would have seen the volume and frequency of his 
gambling transactions.  The investigator thought these showed Mr Ns gambling wasnt 
under control.  And he said the fact that TFSs loan meant that just over two thirds of his 
average income was committed to loan repayments wasnt sustainable.
Our investigator said TFS needed to put things right by deducting what Mr N had repaid from 
the £5,000 loan hed received.  If that meant Mr N had paid TFS more than hed received, 
TFS should refund him the overpayments - plus 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the payments were made until the date TFS repay them).
If, however, those calculations show Mr N still owes TFS some of what he borrowed, the 
investigator said TFS should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr N.  In either 
case, they should remove any negative information theyd recorded about the loan from his 
credit file.
TFS didnt agree with the investigators view and maintained they were entitled to rely on the 
information provided by Mr N when deciding whether to lend to him.  So Ive been asked to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
The rules relating to lending require lenders to make sure they dont lend irresponsibly.  As 
our investigator explained, this means lenders must check that the lending is affordable and 
sustainable for the borrower.  The rules governing lending require the checks to be 
proportionate.  But they dont dictate exactly what checks should be made.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means TFS in 
lending to Mr N are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so TFS needed to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr N. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they would 
get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr N.
TFS explained the checks they made in their response to Mr Ns complaint.  And they said in 
that letter they couldve done more to assess whether Mr N could afford the loan  
specifically, they shouldve requested his bank statements.
I agree with that assessment.  And  like our investigator  I think if theyd reviewed the 
statements, its unlikely they would have lent to Mr N because of what they showed.
I have looked at the statements for a three month period.  They showed Mr Ns exact salary 
varied each month but averaged just under £1250.  Thats significant because TFS 
calculated Mr N would have about £26 left each month after meeting all the commitments he 
declared.  But they based that on a monthly salary of £1300.  Had the lower figure been 
used, the calculation would have shown he had nothing at all left.
And the bank statements show that Mr N spent almost £11,500 on gambling websites.  I 
dont think that, had this information been taken into account, TFS would have decided Mr N 
could sustain the loan repayments.    
Putting things right
Whenever we uphold a complaint, we look at what needs to happen to put the complainant 
back into the position they wouldve been had the business not done anything wrong.  So 
Ive thought about what should happen to put Mr N back in the position he wouldve been in 
had TFS never lent to him.
Mr N would never have had the £5,000 he borrowed.  And hes had the benefit of that loan - 
so its fair that he should repay it.  But hed never have incurred the interest on the loan, or 
any charges arising from it.  So the fairest thing is for those to be refunded, in full.
So, as our investigator said, TFS need to calculate the total amount Mr N has paid them over 
the life of the loan.  If thats more than £5,000, they need to refund him the additional sums 
hes paid.  And, because hes not had the use of that money since he paid it to them, TFS 
need to pay him simple interest on those sums at the rate of 8%.
On the other hand, if TFS have received less than the £5,000 they lent Mr N, they need to 
agree a repayment schedule for the amount still owing which is affordable for Mr N.
And they need to remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ns credit file as a result 
of this loan being made.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint about TFS Loans Limited, 
trading as TFS Loans and directing them to:
Calculate the total payments theyve received from Mr N in relation to the loan and:
oif they come to more than £5,000, refund Mr N the additional amount, 
together with simple interest calculated at the rate of 8% from the date of 
receipt to the date they make the refund; or
oIf they come to less than £5,000, agree a schedule of repayments for the 
outstanding amount which is affordable for Mr N.
Have any negative information added to Mr Ns credit file as a result of this loan 
removed.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman