DRN-3032585
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Handelsbanken plc handled its 
application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme unfairly.
Mr D is Ds director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
D banked with Handelsbanken and approached the bank for a loan under the Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme shortly after it was launched by the government 
in March 2020. The company was looking to borrow £500,000.
Handelsbanken wasnt an accredited CBIL lender initially. The bank was accredited in early 
June 2020 and a branch manager was in touch with Mr D on 9 June to move forward with 
Ds loan application, suggesting that he prepare up-to-date financial information which would 
be required as part of the banks due diligence process.
On 10 July, Ds accountant provided Ds 2019 year-end accounts, management accounts to 
May 2020, a cashflow forecast to September 2021, profit and loss account and balance 
sheet to September 2020. D was now looking to borrow £700,000. The company intended to 
diversify and would use the loan funds to support its investment into new markets.
Handelsbanken declined Ds application. In short, the underwriter concluded that the bank 
wouldnt have agreed the proposition prior to the pandemic and given concerns about its 
affordability and viability, was unwilling to do so now. It was also noted that the purpose of 
lending under the CBIL Scheme was to support businesses during the pandemic  which the 
bank didnt think included the funding of diversification or investing in new markets. And 
although Handelsbanken wasnt willing to provide a loan of £700,000, it said it could 
consider lending £200,000 subject to the provision of some further information from D. 
Mr D complained about the banks decision, particularly as he didnt agree that borrowing 
under the CBIL Scheme couldnt be used to diversify. He was also unhappy about the way 
the bank had handled the application. He didnt think proper explanation for the decision had 
been given, that information had been gathered unnecessarily as the application apparently 
had no reasonable prospect of success and that thered been delays on the banks part 
which had meant that some of the required financial information had to be updated at the 
companys expense.
Handelsbanken didnt change its decision. The bank said it had followed its internal 
procedures correctly and didnt think it had done anything wrong in its handling of the 
application. But it offered D £2,000 towards the costs incurred in providing the information 
required by the bank during the process. 
The £200,000 loan was ultimately not pursued and D subsequently obtained a loan under 
the CBIL Scheme from an alternative lender.
Mr D referred his complaint to us as he remained unhappy with Handelsbankens decision 
and handling of the application, which he said had caused the company to lose clients and 
miss out on opportunities. He also said the matter had impacted the health of the companys 
senior team. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ds complaint but didnt think Handelsbanken had done 
anything wrong. In summary, she said:
While the CBIL Scheme was backed by the government, the decision to lend still 
rested with the lender. There were certain criteria that had to be met, including that 
the proposal was one that a lender would consider viable were it not for the 
pandemic. So Handelsbanken had been entitled and expected to consider the 
viability of Ds proposal. 
She didnt think the banks decision to decline the application was unreasonable, 
given the conclusions it reached after assessing the financial information that D had 
provided. She also didnt think the bank could consider a loan for a new business 
venture under the Scheme rules.
The information that Handelsbanken had requested during the application process 
was reasonable as part of the banks affordability and viability assessments. And she 
didnt think that the time or money D had spent on the application was the result of 
anything Handelsbanken had done wrong. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. So it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. I should point out that in doing so, I wont address each and 
every point that Mr D has raised over the course of his correspondence with us and the 
bank, which I hope he wont see as discourteous. Rather, Ill focus on the matters that I 
consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Borrowing under the CBIL Scheme was subject to the lender being satisfied that the 
borrower had a viable business proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability and 
creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders retaining 
the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies. And while 
lenders could disregard concerns over an applicants short-to-medium term performance, 
this wasnt something that lenders were obliged to do altogether (rather, allowance was 
made for the uncertainty and impact of the coronavirus pandemic).
Handelsbanken declined Ds application primarily on the basis that it didnt consider the 
proposition to be viable. Even disregarding the impact of the pandemic on D, the bank 
concluded that it wouldnt have agreed the lending request in usual circumstances. Based 
on the financial information D provided and what it knew of the companys performance, it 
had concerns over the companys ability to service the debt over the loan term. And it 
perceived a higher level of risk in Ds intention to use the funds to diversify and operate in a 
very different way to that which it had done to date, which it wasnt willing to support with the 
level of funding requested. I think these considerations reasonably led Handelsbanken to 
exercise its discretion to decline Ds application.I think Handelsbanken shared sufficient information about its decision with Mr D and it wasnt 
obliged to go into any more detail about this than it did. There was some dispute as to 
whether it was permitted, under the rules of the Scheme, to use the loan for diversification. 
Handelsbanken took the view that it wasnt, although Ive not seen anything that explicitly 
confirms that to have been the case. In any event, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
outcome  as Handelsbankens concerns around the viability of the proposal meant that it 
was always going to decline the application. 
Ive also considered what Mr D has said about the way Handelsbanken handled the 
application. While I can see it took longer than was ideal, I dont think this was the result of 
any excessive or unreasonable delay on the banks part. The bank couldnt progress the 
application until it was accredited to lend under the Scheme  and it was clear about that 
with Mr D. As soon as the bank could move things forward, it was in touch with Mr D about 
what it needed. And once it had everything it needed, it reached a decision within a couple of 
weeks and communicated this to Mr D promptly. 
I appreciate that preparing the requisite information cost D both time and money, but I dont 
think any of the requests that Handelsbanken made were unreasonable. I understand that 
Mr D has already accepted the £2,000 that the bank offered towards the companys costs in 
this regard and given all Ive said above, there is no basis on which I could fairly require it to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman