DRN-3212624
The complaint
Mrs H complains about some advice given to her in 1992 by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) regarding the transfer of deferred pension benefits from an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS). And she further complains about some compensation she was paid in 
1999 when NatWest accepted that its original advice had been inappropriate. She says that 
she is now aware that compensation was insufficient to place her back into the position she 
would have been had she remained a member of the OPS.
What happened
Mrs H held deferred pension benefits with an OPS. In 1992 she received advice from 
NatWest that suggested she should move those deferred benefits from the occupational 
scheme to a personal pension plan. Following that advice Mrs H decided to transfer her 
deferred pension benefits.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests of 
consumers. Aware of those concerns Mrs H contacted NatWest and asked it to review the 
advice that had previously been provided and to check whether she had lost out as a result 
of incorrect advice to transfer her pension benefits.
In 1998 NatWest told Mrs H that it had completed a review on the advice it had given to her. 
That review concluded that Mrs H had lost out because of the advice shed received to 
transfer her pension benefits to a personal pension. So NatWest told Mrs H it would provide 
her with compensation by adding some funds to a new additional pension plan. Mrs H 
accepted that offer and in early 1999 NatWest told her that it had increased the amount of 
the compensation it would pay since it needed to be recalculated due to the time it had taken 
for the payment to be made. Mrs H had been told that if she was unhappy with the outcome 
of the review she could raise a complaint with the PIA Ombudsman scheme  a predecessor 
of this Service.
Recently Mrs H has been starting to consider how she might use her pension benefits to 
provide for her retirement. She says that, despite the compensation she was paid, she has 
recently discovered she would have been much better off remaining as a member of her 
occupational pension scheme. So she asked NatWest to reconsider whether the 
compensation it had given her in 1999 had been appropriate. NatWest explained that the 
pensions review exercise was intended to be a one-off and so it wasnt appropriate for it to 
reconsider the compensation it had paid.
Mrs H brought her complaint to this Service. Her complaint has been assessed by one of our 
investigators. They said that it appeared that NatWest had carried out the review in line with 
the regulators guidance. And since they agreed with NatWest that the review had been 
designed as a one-off exercise they didnt think NatWest needed to do anything further.
 
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by NatWest. Having done so I dont think I need to consider 
whether the advice Mrs H was given by NatWest in 1992 was suitable as I will explain below.
The review that NatWest completed for Mrs H in 1999 was part of a large industry wide 
exercise supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases, such 
as was the case here, it wasnt possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational 
pension schemes they had been advised to leave. So the aim of the review was to check 
whether the value of the pension investments Mrs H held would provide similar benefits to 
those shed have received from her occupational scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mrs H, there was a lengthy period left before their expected retirement 
date. So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary 
because of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 1999. So although the review suggested the compensation 
NatWest paid would mean the pension savings Mrs H held were expected to at least match 
the benefits she would have received from the occupational scheme at retirement, 
circumstances have meant that this isnt now the case.
As Mrs H has pointed out, the regulator has now updated the methodology it expects firms to 
use when calculating any compensation that might be due when inappropriate advice has 
been given to transfer pension benefits from an OPS. And it is likely that, using that revised 
methodology, the compensation Mrs H would receive would be much higher than was paid 
in 1999. But the regulator has been clear that the revised methodology should only be used 
in relation to new complaints, that had not previously been considered under the old 
methodology.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
NatWest carried out the review of Mrs Hs situation as it was required to. I do understand 
why Mrs H is unhappy that her expected pension benefits are likely to be less than she might 
have received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then regulators decision on how 
to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this Service should now 
challenge or ignore.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mrs H. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, she will now be left with a 
pension that is significantly less than shed have received if shed stayed as a member of the 
occupational scheme. But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be 
conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given. That review was 
designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about whether compensation 
needed to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt 
reasonable for me to expect NatWest to pay additional compensation to that which was 
required by the review process at the time. So I dont think NatWest needs to do anything 
further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman