DRN-3428306
The complaint
Miss G, Mr R, Mrs R and Mr R complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
As Mr R has been the main correspondent with our service, for ease, Ill refer mainly to him
throughout this decision.
What happened
On 31 January 2020, Mr R booked a package trip abroad to a country Ill call N. The group
was due to travel between 29 July and 2 August 2020. Mr R took out a travel insurance
policy on 25 February 2020, which was underwritten by Ageas. He declared that he suffered
from an autoimmune condition, which Ageas agreed to cover for an additional premium.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On
16 March 2020, the UK government asked everyone in the country to stop non-essential
contact with others and to stop all unnecessary travel. This advice was stated to be
particularly important for those with serious health conditions. In late March 2020, GPs were
asked to identify their most vulnerable patients. This was to enable those patients to be sent
NHS or devolved government Public Health service communications advising them to
shield to protect against the risk of contracting Covid-19. Mr R was sent a shielding email,
which provided strict stay-at-home guidance. And on 8 June 2020, Mr R received a further
email advising him to shield until at least the end of July 2020.
Subsequently, on 1 July 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
lifted some of the travel restrictions which had been in place since 17 March 2020. Some
countries were placed on a travel corridor list, which meant they were exempt from FCDO
advice against all but essential travel abroad. N was on this list. Alongside the FCDO travel
corridor list, Ns own government lifted restrictions and permitted UK nationals to enter the
country from 1 July 2020 onwards too.
As a result of Mr Rs shielding email though, he and his party werent able to travel as
planned. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with
cancelling their trip.
Ageas turned down Mr Rs claim. It said the policy didnt cover these circumstances. And it
said that the cancellation section of the policy specifically excluded claims which were down
to government regulations.
Mr R was unhappy with Ageas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She noted that the cancellation
section of the policy covered cancellation due to a policyholders quarantine. She noted that
the policy didnt define what Ageas meant by quarantine. So she thought about the everyday
meaning of the word. She concluded Mr Rs situation could fairly be treated as a period of
quarantine. So she recommended that Ageas should cover Mr Rs claim and add annual
interest of 8% to the settlement.
Ageas disagreed. It didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms. It referred to
examples of cases where it considered wed agreed on this point.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think it had been fair for Ageas to turn down this claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Rs claim and the available evidence, to decide whether Ageas treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with Ageas. The cancellation section provides cover for a policyholders unused
travel and accommodation expenses if they have to cancel their trip due to one of a number
of listed, specified events. One of these is:
the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative or any
person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip.
The contract of insurance doesnt define what Ageas means by quarantine. In these
circumstances then, Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word as well as
the context in which the word quarantine is used within the policy wording. Ive also had
regard to the following dictionary definitions of quarantine:
a period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of
disease.
a general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or travel
freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease.
a state of enforced isolation.
Ive looked closely at the shielding email Mr R was sent on 8 June 2020. This suggests that
Public Health was updating its shielding advice to include vulnerable people being able to go
outside for unlimited exercise. However, it advised (amongst other things) that Mr R should
stay close to home, so that he didnt have to use a toilet which wasnt his own; maintain strict
social distancing at all times, even if he was out with someone he lived with and shouldnt
meet with anyone he didnt live with. And the email clearly stated that Mr R should stay at
home until at least the end of July.
Its clear then that at the point Mr R decided against travel, on 22 June 2020, medical advice
was to stay at home and only leave home for a very limited number of reasons. And its
apparent that this shielding advice wouldve still been in place for at least the first three days
of Mr Rs trip. I think that this period of shielding can fairly be treated as a period of enforced
isolation. And I think the shielding email, which was specifically addressed to Mr R, is
evidence that he was in such isolation.
In my view, the common meaning and understanding of quarantine is wide enough to
include Mr Rs enforced isolation to avoid the risk of contracting Covid-19. And I think a
reasonable person would therefore consider that Mr R was in quarantine and that that was
the reason he had to cancel his trip.
As I think Mr R was effectively subject to quarantine, I think his claim falls within the scope of
policy cancellation cover. I appreciate Ageas considers that the shielding advice is
tantamount to a government regulation. I disagree.Government regulations are passed in Parliament; have legal effect and can be enforced.
Advisory guidance is purely advisory and theres no obligation to follow it nor are there any
potential legal consequences if a person chooses not to do so. So I dont think this exclusion
would apply to the circumstances of Mr Rs claim. And as Ive set out above, at the time Mr
R was due to travel, there were neither FCDO restrictions on travel to N, nor government
restrictions on Mr R entering the country.
Id add too that I think theres another reason why its fair and reasonable for Ageas to
reassess Mr Rs claim. Thats because page 1 of the policy sets out a list of Important
Health Requirements for all Insured Persons, which a policyholder must be able to comply
with in order to have full medical cover. Two of these requirements say:
You must be fit to undertake your planned trip. In the event of a claim we may require
confirmation of this from a Medical Practitioner.
You must not travel against medical advice (or would be travelling against medical advice
had you sought medical advice prior to travel)
Given Mr Rs circumstances and the shielding email which had been sent specifically to him,
advising him to continue to stay at home, I think hed have been travelling against medical
advice if hed taken the trip as planned. And I think its unlikely that a medical practitioner
wouldve confirmed he was fit to travel either. I think its likely Mr R may have understood
that Ageas wouldve refused to cover him if he had travelled and claimed. I think that leaves
Mr R in the unfair position of not being covered if he cancelled due to him having to isolate
on the advice of Public Health, but also not being covered if he had travelled because of the
medical advice to isolate and not travel because of the shielding advice. And its clear that
Mr R was shielding due to a condition which he had already declared to Ageas and which it
had agreed to cover.
Ageas has referred to other cases where weve reached a different outcome. However, each
case is considered on its own specific facts. And in the individual circumstances of this
complaint, I currently think that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Ageas to reassess this
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr R and Ageas accepted my provisional findings, although Ageas told us that its 
acceptance was without prejudice to liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them. 
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to reassess this claim, in line with the remainingterms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G, Mr R, Mrs 
R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman