DRN-3731365
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Westgate Mortgage & Insurance Services Ltds advice to switch his 
pensions to an income drawdown arrangement and invest in a cash fund was unsuitable. 
What happened
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent both parties his 
assessment of it in September 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint 
and the reasons why the investigator didnt recommend that it should be upheld were set out 
in that assessment. In brief, Mr Y sought financial advice from Westgate about his pensions 
in 2014. Westgate advised him to transfer (switch) two personal pensions to an income 
drawdown arrangement, and invest in a cash fund. 
It was recorded at the time that the advice was given in June 2014 that:
Mr Y was in his early 60s, married with one dependent child.
He had suffered heart attacks in 2013.
He was working full time earning £17,500 a year. His wife worked earning £7,800 a 
year. 
Mr Y had an estimated household income of £1,845 per month.
Mr Y had two personal pensions valued at £56,324.04 and £25,799.79. These 
pensions had no guarantees or drawdown facilities.
Mr Y had another small pension which he could take as a lump sum; its value was 
less than £10,000.
Westgate assessed Mr Y as being a cautious investor after discussing risk with
him. In the Retirement Planning  Options at retirement questionnaire, Mr Ys objectives in
regard to his pension were:
access as much tax-free cash as possible, and then to take the rest of his pension 
fund as cash in 2015 assuming the incoming pension legislation allowed it.
The investigator had spoken to Mr Y who confirmed that hed intended to use his pension 
pot to purchase a car and to refurbish his home. He also said he wanted the money to put 
somewhere safe for his family.
Mr Y was charged a 3% fee for the transfer by Westgate.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he had spoken with Mr 
Y whod told him he had very little disposable income at the time of the advice in 2014. The 
investigator noted this wasnt consistent with what had been recorded in the fact find, (that 
Mr Y had over £800 disposable income per month). The investigator thought this 
discrepancy could be for a number of reasons, but noted the income and expenditure 
analysis was tightly budgeted, and made no allowance for some expected expenses.  The 
investigator thought it was more likely than not that Mr Y would have found having access to 
a large cash lump sum attractive, particularly given his previous poor health.
The investigator said the suitability report noted Mr Y didnt want to accept any capital loss 
which would mean his pension had to be invested in a cash fund. The investigator thought 
this was suitable given Mr Y intended to use the cash sum in the near future and there was 
little time for the value to decrease due to inflation.
The investigator noted that less than a year after receiving the advice Mr Y had 
approximately £56,000 in his retirement account compared to the original value of around 
£82,000. A review in April 2019 showed Mr Y had a sum of £7,651 left. So the investigator 
thought Mr Y had taken advantage of the benefits of drawdown and hed used most of his 
funds in a relatively short period of time in pension terms.
The investigator said if Mr Y had left the funds in a low risk investment there would still have 
been the possibility they would have dropped in value and had little chance to recover. Mr Y 
had said he didnt consider annuity payments to be worthwhile. The investigator thought an 
annuity may have represented poor value and this was a particular concern due to Mr Ys 
poor health. The investigator thought long-term pension benefits may have seemed like a 
poor option to Mr Y.
Mr Ys representative had said he could have surrendered all his pensions a year later 
without paying a fee for financial advice. However the investigator said it was Mr Ys choice 
to take professional financial advice at the time, and he didnt think it was wrong for an 
adviser to provide this service where a client had asked for it. 
Mr Ys representative had also said Mr Y had no need to transfer; he could have switched 
his funds to cash in his original pensions and achieved the guarantee they were safe. 
However the investigator said Mr Y had wanted to have access to the funds and neither of 
his original pension schemes provided a drawdown facility.
The transfer was done on a transaction only basis, and Mr Ys representative said Mr Y 
required ongoing financial advice. The investigator said as Mr Y was intending to use a 
significant portion of his pension pot in the near future and was only interested in low risk 
funds, the opportunity for an adviser to make a meaningful impact was minimal. He also 
noted that Mr Y had felt he didnt need it.
Overall, the investigator thought Westgate had given Mr Y suitable advice and had acted 
reasonably in all the circumstances. 
Mr Y didnt accept the investigators findings. His representative, said, in summary:
Mr Y was advised to move all of his pensions into a single pension. However there 
was no need to do that, as Mr Ys stated aim was to cash in all his pensions when 
the 2015 Pension Freedoms came into force.
Mr Y could have switched his pensions to cash in his existing schemes, and without 
the need to transfer.
The adviser had charged 3% for the transfers. However Mr Ys objective could have 
been met with a simple switch within the existing schemes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld, and largely for the same reasons. 
These matters have to be considered in light of the circumstances at the time, and not with 
the benefit of hindsight. Given Mr Ys health, I dont think it was unreasonable that he might 
want to access some or all of his pension benefits. Although Pension Freedoms had been 
publicised, this was still several months away  and nothing was guaranteed at that point. In 
Mr Ys circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for the firm to act on the basis that 
Mr Y wanted access to his benefits in the shorter term and not wait another several months 
or so given nothing was guaranteed about Pension Freedoms. Westgate explained the 
proposed changes to the way pensions could be taken from April 2015, including the 
removal of restrictions on accessing pensions. It also set out the alternative options available 
to Mr Y  including the open market option for annuities and enhanced annuities. 
Mr Ys existing pensions didnt have drawdown facilities. And like the investigator, I dont 
think investing in cash was unreasonable in the circumstances, as it appeared Mr Y wanted 
to access as much of his fund as he could in the shorter term. 
Taking everything into account, for the reasons set out above and by the investigator, I dont 
think the advice Westgate Mortgage & Insurance Services Ltd gave Mr Y was unsuitable in 
the particular circumstances of his case.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman