DRN-3686689
The complaint
Mr Q complains about delays by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) in transferring his pension to
a retirement account and paying his tax-free lump sum.
What happened
Mr Q said based on a statement in early February 2021 showing a pension value or around
£53,000, he decided to request payment of his tax-free cash. He requested this using a web
form on 16 February 2021. He received an application on 4 March and completed the forms
on 8 March 2021 and returned them on the same day. ReAssure told him it used 8 March as
the closing date of his pension account and he said he was told they would aim to action by
26 March 2021. He chased by phone on 15 and 25 March 2021 and complained on 25
March 2021. Mr Q chased as he wanted the payment made in 2020/21 tax year, but he
didnt receive payment until 6 April 2021.
He said he received a letter on 25 May 2021 from ReAssure dated 1 April 2021 showing the
account was set up on 8 March 2021. By the time of payment, the closing balance was
shown as just over £51,000. He was unhappy the payment arrived in the following tax year
and that the balance had reduced. Mr Q didnt think the £200 offered was fair. He said the
delay had caused him financial loss and embarrassment and difficulty in meeting a financial
commitment. He had lost around £2,000 due to the drop in value of his account.
ReAssure said it received the completed retirement account application on 8 March 2021. In
a letter to Mr Q dated 25 May 2021 it accepted there had been a delay in not contacting him
back after it was received. It apologised and said the process had taken longer than 
expected. It said this was a mistake on its part and shouldnt have happened. It offered £200
compensation which included a net interest payment in lieu of payment delays. It didnt think
Mr Q had lost out from a tax perspective but asked for evidence if he had. It explained to him
when he called on 15 March 2021 that it had a 15 to 20 working day turnaround time. Any
applications received after 5 March 2021 were not guaranteed to be completed before the
tax year end. His application had been received on 8 March 2021.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said the following.
ReAssure had already accepted that it made a mistake in not responding to Mr Q when he
returned his application form on 8 March. Where there was a mistake, I could make an 
award for distress and inconvenience and any financial loss due to that mistake.
However Mr Q complained about several things that ReAssure has not accepted. He 
believed he lost out due to the fall in value of his pension from around £53,000 to £51,000 
before it was paid. He also thought he lost out due to the tax-free cash being paid in the 
following tax year and subject to emergency tax, which he thought he could not claim back 
until he filed his tax return in January 2023.
I reviewed the papers presented to me. I had seen a letter from ReAssure to Mr Q
dated 2 March 2021, telling him that the retirement planning toolkit was available on their
website. It said it expected his new account to be set up withing 20 working days and that
time included payment of his tax-free cash into his nominated bank account which could take
a further 3 to 5 days to clear into his bank account. So I think from the start it was clear that it
would take several weeks to process his request.
I note that Mr Q said he received the forms on 4 March and completed and returned them on
8 March and ReAssure confirmed receipt on 8 March. Its letters to Mr Q also show that the
withdrawal calculation date was then fixed as 8 March 2021, even though payment followed
on 6 April 2021
I had also seen ReAssures call logs of its conversations with Mr Q on 24 February, 1, 4,15
and 25 March 2021. I noted that when Mr Q called on 1 March, he asked for the forms to be
sent by email. I understood Reassure did this but I could see it said that as the pension is an 
investment, values can go down as well as up. So I think it should have been clear to Mr Q 
that the amount he would receive wasnt the value quoted to him as at 7 February 2021
when his pension was worth around £53,000, but the value of his investment on the
withdrawal calculation date, which was the lower amount of around £51,000.
I noted that 20 working days from 8 March 2021 would be 6th April 2021 (as Friday 2 April 
and Monday 5 April were both bank holidays). So it did seem that Mr Q was paid his tax free
cash within the timescale indicated (of 20 working days) and indeed the money cleared into
his account by that day as well ( so no further 3 to 5 days were needed for clearing the
funds).
I could see that on 15 March Mr Q was unhappy due to the time needed to process his
request and that his payment would fall into the next tax year. ReAssure said it had emailed
the team to make them aware but gave no guarantee that this would be met. When he called
on 25 March ReAssure again did the same. So I think ReAssure did make attempts to
expediate his request but didnt give any guarantees this would be possible.
I noted Mr Qs comments about paying emergency tax on the tax-free cash. In my 
experience this happens on first payment due to the absence of a tax code and this is what 
ReAssure have indicated. But as ReAssure said any overpaid tax could be reclaimed from 
HMRC. It should not be necessary for Mr Q to wait for the end of the tax year and 
completion of his tax return to reclaim any overpaid tax. HMRC would be able to advise him 
on which form to submit to do this.
So apart from failing to confirm receipt of his application on 8 March, which Reassure
accepts, I dont think it has done anything wrong and it seemed it processed his application 
in the timescale that it indicated at the outset.
I didnt think Mr Q suffered any financial loss as a consequence of ReAssure failure to call
him after 8 March and it did not seem to have affected how quickly his application was
dealt with, as I had shown above.
I noted Mr Q said he felt the delay caused him embarrassment and meant he couldnt meet 
a commitment. He has not provided details of the commitment. But as it seems ReAssure 
had completed the payment within the timescale indicated I didnt think there was a delay. 
But I did understand that Mr Q would have liked things to have been done more quickly than 
they were.
However ReAssure has admitted it made a mistake so I could consider an award for distressand inconvenience as a consequence of that mistake. Such an award is intended to reflect
the impact of that mistake (i.e. failing to call him) on Mr Q not to punish ReAssure.
Mr Q indicated that the delay was stressful but I concluded that ReAssure didnt cause
a delay so I could not make an award for that. I thought that failing to call and tell him the
application had been received must have been frustrating. In the light of that impact I thought
an award for around £200 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and more than
I would have awarded had I needed to make an award. So I thought what ReAssure had
already done was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I noted the investigator thought there had been two days of delays. He said that Mr Q 
emailed on 16 February and confirmed his wishes on 24 February and was sent the 
application on 4 March. There are around 7 working days between each of these steps (or 5 
days excluding the date of contact and reply). It isnt for this service to impose a timescale 
on ReAssure but in any event, I didnt think these response times are unreasonable.
But even if I was wrong and the investigator was right, it would mean that Mr Q would have
received the application form two days earlier on Tuesday 2 March rather than 4 march. We
know that Mr Q then completed and returned the forms on 8 March which is four days later.
So had he received them on 2 March and assuming he took four days to complete and
return them, he would have returned them on 6 March (a Saturday) but the next working day
was Monday 8 March. So it would not have made a difference to the date the forms were
received by ReAssure and the date his fund was withdrawn and calculated would still have
been 8 March 2021.
For all of those reasons I didnt propose to uphold this complaint.
ReAssure had nothing further to add.
Mr Q said 
1. He made the request to withdraw funds on 16 February 2021 and yet he did not receive 
the necessary application form until 4 March 2021.
2. He completed the form on the same day and sent it by first class post, which ReAssure 
claims they received on 8 March.
3. I had ignored the point that on 24 May 2021 he received one envelop with 2 letters date 1 
April and 6 April 2021, he asked why was there a delay of over one month in sending the 
letters? It appeared the letters were produced later and backdated.
4. In this complaint there was no issue of emergency tax code. That was the subject of his 
second complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind for the following reasons.
1. Mr Q says he made the request to withdraw funds on 16 February 2021 and yet he 
did not receive the necessary application form until 4 March 2021. Mr Q is saying this 
period was too long and had the forms be sent earlier they would have been 
completed sooner and his payment might have been completed in the 2020/21 tax year. I considered this in my provisional decision as the investigator said he thought 
there was a delay of two days. I did not agree that there was a delay but said that 
even if I was wrong it would not have made a difference as the form would still have 
been received on 8 March for the reasons I set out. 
2. I note what Mr Q says about the date of receipt of his form, which he says he signed 
and returned on the same day he received it. He says he received it on 4 March 
which was a Thursday. While the majority of first-class post does arrive on the next 
business day that is not guaranteed. I dont have evidence to suggest that ReAssure 
is not being honest in stating that the form was received on Monday 8 March rather 
than Friday 5 March. Given that not all first-class post arrives the next day, it isnt 
surprising that it arrived on the second business day after posting, rather than the 
first (Friday 5 March). I have no reason to question the confirmation provided by 
ReAssure regarding receipt of the form.
3. Mr Q is correct that I have not specifically mentioned his point that on 24 May 2021 
he received one envelop with 2 letters date 1 April and 6 April 2021, he asked why 
was there a delay of over one month in sending the letters? He said it appeared the 
letters were produced later and backdated. I cannot explain why Mr Q received two 
letters nor comment on whether they were produced and back dated. But even if they 
were it does not make a difference to my conclusions. I say that because the 
payment was made within the timescale outlined at the outset.
4. I note that Mr Q didnt make a complaint about his emergency tax code and note it is 
the subject of another complaint. I did not make any findings regarding this in my 
provisional decision so it does not change my conclusions. However I did comment 
on it and mention the method of reclaiming any overpaid tax, in case that was of 
assistance to Mr Q.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman