DRN-3812810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy QIC Europe Ltd has declined a storm damage claim they made 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs F made a claim to their home insurance provider  QIC  for 
storm damage to their roof. Theyre unhappy QIC has declined their claim.
QIC says the weather conditions at the time of loss dont meet the policy definition of a 
storm. It also says Mr and Mrs F completed a repair to the roof before their surveyor had 
been able to inspect it, which meant it was unable to validate the claim.
Mr and Mrs F say the time QIC gave for a surveyor to attend was too long. They felt the only 
reasonable action they could take to mitigate further loss was to go ahead and get the roof 
repaired.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
QICs reasons for declining the claim were reasonable.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
QIC says it checked weather reports from around the date of loss which showed that the 
strongest winds peaked at around 41mph.
Our investigator checked the weather in Mr and Mrs Fs area, around the date of loss, 
herself. The reports she used said the windspeeds peaked at around 35mph and that the 
maximum amount of rainfall in a 24-hour period was 12.2mm.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy document explains QICs definition of a storm as:
Storm
A period of violent weather defined as:
a. a gale force of 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised 
Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 miles per hour; or
b. torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c. snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d. hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Based on the evidence provided, its clear that the weather around the time of the loss fell 
significantly short of the policy definition of a storm. So, as the answer to the first question is 
no, I think QICs decision to decline the claim was both in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy and was fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of the complaint.
As there was no storm, I neednt consider the dispute around the repairs which were carried 
out, because the claim simply isnt covered under the storm section of Mr and Mrs Fs policy. 
But I can see this has been a particular matter of contention between the parties, so for 
completeness Ill address it.
Mr and Mrs F say the date they were given for a surveyors visit was too far away (around 
three weeks) and they were concerned about further damage being caused to their property 
by the continuing poor weather. Based on this, they felt it was reasonable to carry out the 
repairs to the roof.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy explains the following under the Claims procedures and conditions 
section:
5. You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further 
loss or damage, but do not carry out any permanent repairs without first getting our 
written permission.
QIC says it advised Mr and Mrs F to carry out temporary repairs prior to the visit of the field 
surveyor and told them that the surveyor would need to inspect the damage in order to 
validate the claim. QIC says Mr and Mrs F advised they werent able to complete temporary 
repairs, so QIC recommended they capture photos before, during and after the repair to aid 
with its validation of the claim. But Mr and Mrs F went ahead with a permanent repair only 
three working days after reporting the claim and didnt capture any photos.
I appreciate the timescale given for a surveyors visit was fairly long. But I see no reason 
why a temporary repair couldnt have been carried out as suggested by QIC. This would 
have mitigated the risk of further damage being caused and would have allowed QIC the 
reasonable opportunity to inspect the damage before reaching a decision on the claim.
Taking everything into account, even if the answers to the three questions outlined were yes, 
Id still conclude that QICs decision to decline the claim was fair. This is because 
Mr and Mrs F acted outside the terms and conditions of the policy when carrying out a 
permanent repair, and because they didnt capture sufficient images to allow QIC to validate 
the claim without its surveyors visit. But regardless of this, there werent storm conditions, so 
Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have had a valid storm damage claim in any event.
QIC accepted the claim for internal damage to Mr and Mrs Fs property under the accidental 
damage section of their policy. I think this decision was fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman