DRN-3505565
The complaint
Mrs M is upset about the outcome of a chargeback she raised with JAJA FINANCE LTD 
(Jaja).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs M, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Jaja, the administrator is a different company 
and they set the rules. Jaja didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it fair for 
them to do so in these circumstances and I can see they did. But when the merchant 
disputed the claim I dont think Jaja were wrong not to take the claim any further e.g. to 
arbitration or by raising a dispute under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) that 
holds creditors jointly liable for disputed transactions.
I say that because I dont think theres sufficient evidence the French garage did anything 
wrong. Whilst I understand Mrs M says the fault reoccurred shortly after they drove away 
from the garage and that her husband has explained he was able to quickly rectify the issue 
by replacing a sensor, I dont think theres evidence that the French work, explained on the 
invoice as diesel circuit check and circuit bleed, was unnecessary.
There wasnt, for instance, evidence from an independent expert and in those circumstances 
I dont think Jajas actions were unreasonable.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman