DRN-3423242
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold them a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 January 2020, Mr and Mrs K took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
price comparison website. They chose the Economy level of cover. The policy was sold by 
Rock and underwritten by an insurer Ill call A. They paid £27.80 for the insurance.
Mr and Mrs K were planning to travel abroad. But as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development office (FCDO) advised against 
all but essential international travel. And on 19 March 2020, the country they were planning 
to travel to closed its borders to non-nationals. Mr and Mrs K therefore had to cancel their 
trip. They checked their policy paperwork and learned that the cancellation section of the 
policy didnt cover changes in FCDO advice. 
Fortunately, they were able to recover their cancellation costs independently. But they made 
a complaint to Rock because they said the policy had been advertised as comprehensive 
cover. So they felt the policy had been mis-sold to them.
Rock didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold and therefore, Mr and Mrs K asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Rock had mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs K. She felt Rock had 
provided Mr and Mrs K with clear, fair and not misleading information about the insurance. 
And that itd issued Mr and Mrs K with the relevant policy documentation.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They felt the policy terms werent sufficiently explicit in setting out 
the lack of cancellation cover due to changes in FCDO advice. And they didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect travellers to have sufficient knowledge or time to compare sections of 
cover on what was described as a comprehensive policy. They considered that the 
investigators view allowed insurers to smuggle gaps past unsuspecting travellers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K, I dont think Rock has treated 
them unfairly and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs K took out their policy online. This means that Rock 
didnt have any direct interaction with Mr and Mrs K during the sale. The evidence suggests 
that Rock didnt advise Mr and Mrs K to take out the policy. This meant it didnt need to 
check it was suitable for them. But it did need to give them enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy to decide if it was right for them.
Mr and Mrs K say that Rock advertised that it had 15 years of travel insurance experience 
and that it stated it offered cheap insurance without compromising the cover. But they felt 
that given the policy didnt cover cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, the cover was 
worthless and basic. And theyve said they dont think its reasonable to expect policyholders 
to compare sections of the insurance contract to check whats covered.
Rock didnt underwrite the policy. This means it wasnt responsible for drafting the policy 
paperwork or deciding what risks would and wouldnt be covered. That was down to A, the 
underwriter. So if Mr and Mrs K feel that the drafting of the policy contract was ambiguous or 
unclear, theyd need to complain to A about that particular issue alone.
However, Rock was responsible for the information Mr and Mrs K saw during the sales 
process and ensuring that they were provided with the relevant policy documentation. While 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel that the use of the word comprehensive was misleading in 
terms of the cover they were provided, I disagree. I dont think this indicates that every 
eventuality would be covered by the policy they took out  no policy available on the market 
covers every situation which a policyholder might find themselves in.
And indeed, Mr and Mrs K chose the economy level of cover. But they couldve chosen to 
purchase either Standard or Premier cover, both for an additional premium and both of 
which provided a higher level of cover. So I think they shouldve been aware that their policy 
didnt provide the most extensive cover available, even within the policy brand they 
purchased.
Having looked at the various things the policy covered, I can see that the core sections Id 
expect to see in a travel policy were included  such as (amongst others) cancellation for a 
list of specific reasons; medical expenses; personal possessions and delayed/missed 
departure. I dont think the policy they took out was unusually restrictive in terms of the range 
of cover it offered. And having checked the policy eligibility terms, it seems Mr and Mrs K 
were eligible for the policy they took out.
During the online sale, Mr and Mrs K were asked to confirm theyd read a copy of the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which provides an at-a-glance summary of 
cover and sets out the main cover and exclusions. The box stated:
Please review carefully the information below
Before you buy its important you make sure this policy meets your needs. Please take some 
time to review the summary document(s) below as they provide information about the 
circumstances in which you can make a claim and how much you might receive.
Immediately underneath was a link to the IPID. The IPID included the main cover headings 
and the main exclusions which applied to the policy. So it was down to Mr and Mrs K to 
check the policy met their needs.
Once the sale was concluded, Rock sent Mr and Mrs K a copy of the policy contract terms, 
together with the IPID. It also set out the relevant cancellation rights which applied to the 
contract. So I think it met its obligation to provide contract information in a timely way and to 
provide Mr and Mrs K with an IPID. It was open to Mr and Mrs K to check the relevant 
paperwork and decide if the policy was right for them. If it wasnt, Mr and Mrs K had 14-days 
in which to cancel the policy. And I note that the IPID includes a section on page 1 which 
includes a list of What is not insured? This list includes the prohibitive regulations of any 
government. Such regulations would include, for example, international border restrictions or the UK-national lockdown, which prevented travel.
As Ive set out above, Rock wasnt responsible for the clarity of the policy paperwork. And I 
wouldnt have expected it to highlight any restrictions relating to Covid-19, as at the point Mr 
and Mrs K took out the policy, the events which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 were both 
unforeseen and unforeseeable. But in the round, I think Rock fulfilled its regulatory 
obligations in the way it sold this policy. And so I dont find that it mis-sold this policy or 
needs to pay Mr and Mrs K any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman