DRN-4372942
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund her the money she lost, after she fell 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
Mrs M brings her complaint with the assistance of professional representation, but for 
readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mrs M.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary I understand it to be as follows.
In or around April 2022, Mrs M saw an advert on a well-known online retailer and web 
service providers platform regarding the opportunity to learn how to trade currency.  
Interested, she provided her personal details. But she subsequently received a call from 
fraudsters, who were posing as cryptocurrency investment brokers.
Mrs M has said the advert looked plausible and genuine. The fraudsters built rapport and 
had a believable corporate aura about them. She said they used technical language about 
trading and created a professional-looking platform for her. The scammers persuaded Mrs M 
to download screen-sharing software so they could assist her. She was told she could make 
substantial returns, with risk free guarantees.
Believing everything to be genuine, Mrs M decided to invest. She initially made a payment 
for £200, from a building society account that she held elsewhere. When she could see that 
investment doing well, she decided to invest more. The fraudsters instructed Mrs M to set up 
a new account with an Electronic Money Institution (EMI), as well as setting up a wallet on a 
cryptocurrency platform. Ultimately Mrs M sent money from the account she held with HSBC 
to her newly set up EMI account, then on to the fraudsters from there.
When Mrs M tried to withdraw funds, she was told that she needed to pay fees, which she 
initially did. But on mentioning what was happening to a family member, it became apparent 
to her that shed fallen victim to a scam. Overall, between 22 April 2022 and 30 May 2022, 
Mrs M made seven payments from her HSBC account, totalling £74,280, which she lost to 
the scam.
Mrs M raised the matter with HSBC and it looked into her complaint. It issued its final 
response on 2 November 2022, not upholding it. In summary, it didnt consider there had 
been a bank error. HSBC added that relevant on-screen fraud and scam advice was 
provided when Mrs M made her first payment.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, our Investigator thought HSBC missed an opportunity to ask Mrs M further 
questions about the payment, given she thought they were significantly out of character for 
her. She thought that further probing by HSBC would have exposed the scam.
But our Investigator also thought Mrs M should share some liability for her loss. In summary 
this was because she didnt think Mrs M had completed any due diligence before making the 
payments and there were various elements about the scam that should have raised red 
flags. Overall, our Investigators view was that HSBC should refund Mrs M 50% of the 
money she lost from her HSBC account, along with interest.
Mrs M accepted our Investigators view, but HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said Mrs M 
hadnt suffered a loss from her HSBC account, as the funds were moved to an account that 
was in her control. It added that Mrs M had been provided with a clear and relevant warning 
and it didnt think any further intervention from it would have prevented the scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that both parties have referred to other decisions issued by our service in their 
submissions. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite 
similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im 
required to do, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to  
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Mrs M is responsible for transactions shes 
carried out herself. Mrs M doesnt dispute that at the time, she intended to make the 
payments, albeit with the belief the payments were towards a legitimate investment. But that 
isnt the end of things, HSBC along with other payment services providers, should be 
monitoring accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud.
Having reviewed Mrs Ms HSBC account statements for the months leading up to the scam, 
Im persuaded that the first payment she makes, for £5,000 on 22 April 2022, represented a 
departure from how the account was typically run. This payment was significantly larger than 
other payments shed previously made, so I think HSBC ought to have recognised that there 
was a significant chance that shed been targeted by fraudsters. Particularly so as Mrs M 
had selected the purpose of payment as investment, which she hadnt done previously and 
that this payment was going to a newly set up payee.
As well as this, Im also mindful that Mrs M was in her seventies at the time of the scam and 
I think this is a relevant factor here. Mrs Ms age profile is one that is disproportionately 
targeted by scammers. This has been recognised by the industry for a long time and ought 
to have been something HSBC was aware of.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded the on-screen warning HSBC provided, which     
Mrs M has said she cant recall seeing, went far enough. For the reasons explained above, I 
think there was enough going on that HSBC ought to have intervened further than it did and 
spoken to Mrs M before allowing the payments to be progressed.
Ive found no good reason to think Mrs M would not have been honest about why she was  
sending this money  at that point, she still thought she was making payments towards a genuine investment, and the scammers hadnt told her to lie if questioned. Indeed, this is 
supported by Mrs M selecting investment as the purpose for the payment. So had HSBC 
stopped the £5,000 payment for further questioning or additional checks, as I think it ought to 
have done, I think it would have been able to identify some of the commonly occurring 
features of investment scams of this kind and helped Mrs M take steps to protect herself. 
Given the use of screen monitoring software, the unrealistic returns promised and the lack of 
proper paperwork or regulation, Im satisfied it ought to have identified this was most likely a 
scam and warned Mrs M or stopped further payments altogether. And Ive seen no reason 
why Mrs M would not have listened to HSBC. After all, it was the professional in these 
matters and Mrs M was not an experienced investor.
HSBC has argued that it shouldnt be held liable for the transfers involved because the 
receiving account was in Mrs Ms name, so there was no loss from her HSBC account. 
However, I dont agree with that conclusion. Even though Mrs M was transferring funds to an 
account in her own name, I think HSBC wouldve still been on notice about crypto scams. 
And HSBC should still fairly and reasonably have looked out for potentially fraudulent 
payments, even if they were going to another account in the name of the customer. 
Identifying and preventing such scam payments would still have the effect of preventing a 
loss to its customer. So HSBC can still be held liable for a loss that resulted from its failure to 
intervene, which I believe to be the case here.
By 2022, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published warnings 
about cryptocurrency scams, so HSBC shouldve had a good understanding of the risk of 
these scams and how they work. Even though Mrs M was transferring funds to an account in 
her name, HSBC ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions  which, as Ive explained, in this case I consider Mrs Ms payment of £5,000 
was. And while the transfers were made to a newly open account in her name, scams 
involving cryptocurrency were well known to banks by this time. And where payments were 
also out of character, Im persuaded potential losses were foreseeable to HSBC.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC could have prevented Mrs Ms losses from the point she made 
the payment on 22 April 2022. Had it intervened, as I think it ought to have done, I think the 
loss of this and subsequent payments Mrs M made from her HSBC account could have been 
prevented. It follows that I think HSBC is at least, in part, responsible for the money Mrs M 
has lost.
Should Mrs M bear some responsibility for her losses?
Ive also thought carefully about Mrs Ms role in what happened. I understand that Mrs M felt  
the investment platform and its advisors appeared professional, and that she built a rapport.  
But Im afraid I think Mrs M ought to have had more concerns along the way about what she  
was being told.
I cant see that she carried out reasonable due diligence. Mrs M has said she was told she 
could receive substantial returns, with the investment having risk free guarantees. I think this 
ought to have appeared to her as concerningly unrealistic, not least given the speed at which 
the scammers claimed Mrs Ms initial payments made profits.
Im also mindful that Mrs M doesnt seem to have sought any clarification as to why she was 
seemingly making payments to multiple individuals, rather than to an investment company. 
As well as this Mrs M doesnt appear to have questioned the various requests for payment 
for fees she was receiving.
In and of themselves its arguable that any one of the above factors, in isolation, may not  
have been enough to alert Mrs M. But when taken collectively, Im persuaded there was enough going on that ought to have given Mrs M cause for concern that things were not as 
they seem.
I dont say any of this to diminish or downplay the fact that Mrs M has been the victim of a  
cruel and cynical scam. I sympathise with her for that and I appreciate that shes told us 
about how her circumstances were difficult at the time. I dont doubt what Mrs M has said 
about her medical conditions. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that because of her 
condition Mrs M couldnt have proceeded with more caution than she did. Mrs M was 
interested in investing  a decision she proactively made. She found the advert online and 
passed on her contact details. Given this, Im not persuaded that it would be unreasonable to 
have expected Mrs M to have taken more steps than she did to validate things before 
proceeding.
Overall, I cant see that Mrs M had enough basis to reasonably satisfy herself that this was a 
genuine investment, rather I think shes taken things at face value. So I dont think I can fairly 
hold HSBC solely responsible for Mrs Ms losses.
Lastly, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to try to recover Mrs Ms 
money. But as the payments went to her own account, there wasnt anything more that 
HSBC could reasonably do there, as the money was subsequently moved onto fraudsters, 
so there would have been no prospect of HSBC recovering any of the money.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above HSBC UK Bank Plc should now:
- Refund Mrs M 50% of the money lost, being £37,140 (less £5 which remains on    
Mrs Ms EMI account).
- Pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date the payments were made to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman