DRN-3874712
The complaint
Miss S complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) unfairly charged 
her a penalty fee for the early closure of her Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
Miss S says following the maturity of her three-year fixed ISA in July 2020, she believed she 
had opted for a flexible easy access ISA. Miss S says in May 2022 she attempted to 
withdraw funds from what she believed was a flexi cash ISA, only to be told that her account 
was fixed until July 2023 and the only way to access these funds was to close the account 
and pay an early closure penalty of approximately £200.
Miss S says she doesnt understand why her ISA was fixed until July 2023 as shed never 
given any instructions for that and believed her ISA was now a flexi cash ISA as she had 
been informed. 
Miss S wants Virgin to apologise for its mistake, to refund the fees it has charged her for 
closing her ISA and pay her compensation for the time spent dealing with the matter and the 
increased financial loss for delaying the reduction in her mortgage balance that these funds 
were intended.  
Virgin says it hasnt made any mistakes as in July 2020 when her existing three-year fixed 
ISA matured, it was reinvested into another three-year fixed ISA maturing in July 2023. 
Virgin says Miss S was informed this would happen if she didnt respond to its letter it sent 
her about maturity options. 
Virgin says it has paid Miss S £25 for the delay in responding to her complaint. Virgin says it 
has correctly charged the penalty in line with the ISAs terms and conditions. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says she has seen the notice of maturity letter sent to Miss S in July 2020 and 
this confirms unless Virgin were given alternative instructions, it would automatically reinvest 
the ISA for a further three-year fixed term. The investigator says there was no evidence to 
suggest Miss S had given any other instructions to Virgin. So, while the investigator 
understood Miss S had been sent an email in May 2021 about existing fixed rate ISAs being 
moved to a flexi cash ISA, this didnt apply to her as her ISA was already fixed until July 
2023. 
With that in mind the investigator felt Virgin had fairly charged the penalty fee in line with its 
terms and conditions. The investigator noted Virgin had also acted fairly when it paid Miss S 
£25 for the delay in responding to her complaint. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Miss S to discover her ISA was fixed until 
July 2023, and that she had to pay a penalty to withdraw her funds, when she believed her 
ISA was an easy access type of deposit. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin acted fairly when it charged Miss S a 
penalty for closing her ISA. 
The first thing to say is Miss S has also complained about the time it took Virgin to deal with 
her complaint, but its not the role of this service to scrutinise Virgins complaints process or 
to tell Virgin how it should deal with complaints more widely. That said I can see Virgin have 
paid Miss S £25 for the time it took dealing with her complaint, and Im satisfied that is a 
reasonable offer here. 
Miss Ss complaint centres around the fact she neither received any notifications or 
instructions on the maturity of her existing ISA in July 2020 nor did she ever give any 
instructions to fix this for three years at that time. Miss S believes her ISA, on maturity in July 
2020, should have been placed into an easy access type of ISA, in line with her other ISAs 
and she wouldnt have wanted to have reinvested for a further three years, because of the 
low interest environment at that time. 
While I understand the points Miss S makes here Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this because although Miss S says she never gave any instructions to reinvest the ISA 
when it matured in July 2020, which may be the case here, unfortunately I have seen a copy 
of the maturity letter sent to her at that time by the original provider, who were subsequently 
taken over by Virgin. In that letter it does make clear that unless Miss S told them otherwise, 
her ISA would be automatically re deposited into another three-year ISA fixed rate bond, 
issue 61 maturing in July 2023. 
While I understand Miss S says she believed that by not taking any further action her ISA 
would roll into an easy access type of ISA, similar to her other investments that wasnt the 
case here. Its possible here that Miss S may be confusing this with the communication 
Virgin sent to all its investors in May 2021, about what would happen going forward for 
customers with maturing ISAs but of course this was after her ISA had already been 
reinvested back in July 2020. 
While Miss S says she didnt receive any communications when her ISA matured in July 
2020, I have been provided with details of where the maturity letters were sent at that time, 
and it does show it was sent to the correct address. So, with that in mind, on balance and in 
all probability the maturity letter detailing the options open to her would have been sent to 
Miss S and I cant hold Virgin responsible if that letter wasnt received by her. Its also worth 
saying I cant see any evidence to show Miss S gave specific instructions about the 
reinvestment of her ISA upon its maturity in July 2020, other than to assume it would revert 
to an instant access type of ISA.
As the investigator has pointed out under the terms and conditions of Miss Ss ISA, any 
withdrawal or closure would result in a penalty fee, so I cant say Virgin have acted unfairly 
here. While Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Virgin 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman