DRN-2619022
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs M, his wife, complain about various issues concerning their accounts with TSB 
Bank plc.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs M had an account with Lloyds TSB. Mrs M also had a savings account. They 
moved abroad, and when Lloyds TSB was later broken up in 2013, their accounts were 
moved to TSB. They wish to complain about that, since they say they were not consulted 
and would have chosen Lloyds if asked. They also complain that TSB changed the address 
on their accounts from their overseas address back to their old UK address, which they had 
let to tenants. They complain that TSB locked them out of their accounts from 2013, as they 
were unable to use internet banking (although Mr Ms access was restored in 2015).
In 2019, Mr M and Mrs D visited the UK and visited two branches of TSB. They complain 
about the service they received in one branch, which they describe as unhelpful. They say a 
staff member told them to consider transferring their account to another bank. Afterwards 
Mrs D asked another bank to switch her savings account from TSB. After a month, that bank 
reported that TSB had not allowed the switch, and so Mrs D complains about that.
TSB accepted that the service in the branch could have been better, as there appeared to 
have been some confusion or misunderstanding about the phone numbers registered to the 
accounts. It apologised for that, and paid Mrs D £50. But it stood by the advice to open an 
account at another bank, since TSBs account was intended for UK residents, not for people 
who live abroad. It advised them to close their accounts. Being dissatisfied with that 
response, Mrs D and Mr M brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator decided that he did not have jurisdiction to consider the events of 2013. He 
said some issues had been raised for the first time more than six years later, which was 
outside our time limits. And Mr M and Mrs D had brought a complaint to our Service in 2015 
but had abandoned it. He said that £50 was fair compensation for what had happened in 
2019. The account switch had not worked because the wrong account number had been 
provided to the other bank.
Mr M and Mrs D asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules which govern our Services jurisdiction, I generally only have the power to 
consider a complaint if it was made within six years of the events complained of. Apart from 
the matters which were raised in 2015, the issues which arose in 2013  such as the 
allocation of the accounts to TSB following the split of Lloyds TSB  are too old for me to 
consider now. I dont think the exceptions to that rule apply here. And while the complaint 
which was made in 2015 (about being locked out of internet banking, and changing the
Address on their accounts) was brought in time, it was not pursued to a decision, and I am 
not going to re-open that old complaint now.
That leaves the branch visits in 2019. Since Mr M and Mrs D were still resident abroad, and 
they had been experiencing difficulties in managing their accounts for several years, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of the branch staff to advise them to consider closing their TSB 
accounts and opening accounts with another bank in their country of residence. That might 
actually be good advice.
The crux of the complaint about the branch visits, however, is not that advice but the attitude 
of the staff generally, and how long it took to serve them. Mr M and Mrs D have described a 
lengthy visit which achieved nothing, and during which they say the staff were not very 
helpful. Specifically, in one branch they waited to see a manager, who was in a meeting for 
an hour, and the meeting ended shortly before the branch was due to close. The purpose of 
their visit was to resolve all of their complaints. Since these involved several issues, and a 
final response letter had already been issued some years before, and it was nearly the end 
of office hours, I am not surprised that the manager was not able to resolve everything 
before the branch closed. I appreciate that this must have been frustrating, especially 
because Mr M and Mrs D had arrived an hour before closing time, but sometimes managers 
have to attend meetings and that is nobodys fault. I do not uphold that part of this complaint.
The other branch was visited twice. On one visit, the branch refused to open an account for 
Mr Ms teenage son. The son is not a party to this complaint, so I cannot consider that issue 
(but even if I could, the reason for the refusal appears to be because the son was not 
resident in the UK, and so I have not asked for the son to join this complaint because it 
appears to have no reasonable prospects). On the next visit, it isnt very clear exactly what 
happened, but it seems that the branch staff were cautious about helping because Mr M and 
Mrs D had recently visited another branch and provided a different address (a UK address to 
one branch and their normal overseas residence to the other branch). In light of the banks 
duty to ensure the safety of its customers accounts, that caution seems reasonable to me, 
and I can see how it could have come across as unhelpful, but on balance I dont think the 
staff were intentionally trying to be difficult.
TSB has said that the account switch failed because Mrs D provided the other bank with her 
savings account number instead of her current account number, and TSB does not transfer 
savings accounts directly. I have not seen evidence to verify which number was provided. 
But that matter has since been resolved  the savings account has been closed and the 
money transferred  and there has been no financial loss to Mrs D as a result, so I do not 
propose to delay this case by asking for evidence at this late stage, since I dont think I need 
to ask TSB to do more to resolve that issue.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021. (Either of them may reply on behalf of the 
other.)
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman