The complaint
Ms W isnt happy that Ikano Bank AB (publ) has recorded a default on her credit file. And 
has sold her account to a debt collector.
What happened
In September 2002, Ms W took out a store card through Ikano. Ms W said at times she had 
some financial difficulties and on occasion missed her contractual repayments. But she 
always made sure she got her account back up to date.
Ms Ws, April 2019 statement showed that her direct debit payment wasnt paid. And she 
also didnt make the minimum payment Ikano asked her for on her May 2019 statement. On 
10 June 2019, Ms W called Ikano to discuss her account, as she unable to work because 
shed been ill. But she wasnt able to speak to the collections department, so asked for a call 
back. 
Ms W said she never received the call back. She called again 25 June 2019 and said she 
could make a payment by the end of the month; her minimum payment was £35.77. On 29 
June 2019, Ms W paid £35.00. And said she was surprised to later find her account was 
blocked and had been sold to a debt collector. She complained to Ikano.
Ikano said theyd called Ms W on two occasions, 11 and 12 June 2019, and had left a 
voicemail (VM) asking her to call. They said theyd also sent her a letter on 12 June 2019 
again asking her to get in touch. And said theyd told Ms W when she called that she needed 
to allow five working days for her payment to be noted to her account. As Ms Ws payment 
was made after the time needed to reach her account it was defaulted. 
Ms W wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Ikano could have done more to help Ms W while she was experiencing 
financial difficult. And didnt think it was fair for Ikano to default Ms Ws account. She said 
Ikano should remove the adverse information recorded on her credit file. And pay £150 to 
Ms W for the trouble and upset caused.
Ikano didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
DRN-1632327I can understand why Ms W is upset about the way Ikano has handled her account. She has 
been a longstanding customer since 2002. Ive looked at the history of her repayments over 
this period. And I can see that Ms W regularly fell behind with her monthly contractual 
repayments but also regularly brought the account up to date.
The recording of a default on a consumers credit file can mean the consumer is unable to 
get further lending or better repayment rates for quite some time, as a default remains on 
their credit file for six years. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says the term 
'defaul t', when recorded on a credit reference file should be used to refer to a situation when 
"the lender in a standard business relationship with the individual decides the relationship 
has broken down".
So, in determining my decision Ive considered whether Ms Ws relationship with Ikano had 
broken down. And whether the actions Ikano took were fair and reasonable. 
I can see that Ms W had missed two payments, March and April 2019, respectively. And that 
Ikano sent her a notice of arrears dated 30 April 2019 with a breakdown of her missed 
payments. This letter asked Ms W to contact them. But I cant see that Ms W did this . 
Ms W didnt make the payment that was due for May 2019. And on 1 June 2019, Ikano has 
shown that they sent her a default notice. This explained to Ms W that she needed to make a 
payment of £35.77 by 23 June 2019.The notice also gave details as to what would happen 
to Ms Ws account if the payment wasnt made. This included closing her account, recording 
a default on her credit file and that Ikano could sell her debt to a specialist debt purchaser.
On 10 June 2019, Ms W called Ikano to discuss her account. She told Ikano that she was in 
financial difficulty as she had been off work due to illness. But they were unable to put her 
through to their collections department owing to technical issues and a call back was 
requested.
I think its here that things went wrong, as I think if Ms W had been able to speak to the 
collections department a solution could have been found. And this could have helped her 
while she was having financial difficulty preventing the later actions. 
But Ms W didnt receive the call back she was expecting. Ikano has shown a record of their 
contacts with Ms W, and these show they left a VM on 11 June 2019 asking Ms W to call 
them. They called on the same number the next day but again didnt get a response, only 
the option to leave a VM. But I think the VM was left on a telephone number that was no 
longer being used by Ms W. 
I can see Ms Ws current mobile phone ends *785*. Ikano has shown that they called this 
number in April 2019 but were told by a third party that it was a wrong number. I cant know 
for sure what happened here. But what I can see is that Ikano removed Ms Ws correct 
mobile number from their records, after this call, without any further checks being made.
So, I can understand Ms Ws frustration as she was waiting for a call back to help her 
situation, but she never got the call. Ikano said they followed up these calls with a letter sent 
12 June 2019. Ikano hasnt shown a letter was sent on 12 June 2019, but I can see a letter 
dated 17 June 2019, that asked Ms W to call.
On 25 June 2019 Ms W called Ikano. This was a couple of days after the date the default 
notice said she needed to make the payment by. In this call, Ms W again said she wasnt 
working. She told Ikano she hadnt received the VM or the default notice. Ms W asked for the 
default action to be stopped ,and said shed make the payment on 28 June 2019. From what I can see Ms W was told she had until 01 July 2019 for the payment to be in her account. 
And that it would take five working days for the payment to clear. 
On 29 June 2019, Ms W made a payment of £35.00 which was posted to her account on 30 
June 2019. But I can see that on 01 July 2019 Ikano terminated Ms Ws account as her 
payment hadnt allowed for the five days needed for it to reach her account, Ms W continued 
to make further payments on 13 July and 29 July 2019 and tried to set a direct debit for 
future payments. But in August 2019, Ikano sold her debt to another business. 
Conc 7.3, says a lender should treat a customer fairly and is required to respond to a 
customers financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I dont think this has happened 
here. Im satisfied that Ikano, in early June 2019, knew Ms W was in financial difficulties and 
needed help as she couldnt work. So, I think they should have dealt positively and 
sympathetically with her from then.
I appreciate that Ikano sent Ms W at least two letters about the arrears and that Ms W could 
have contacted Ikano sooner than she did. So, I accept on balance that Ms W has some 
responsibility for what took place. But I think an opportunity was missed after Ms W had 
called asking for help, the call back wasnt made to a telephone number being used by her. If 
Ms W had been able to speak to the collections department, Id have expected them to have 
offered Ms W help in line with Conc 7.3, such as a suspension of her payments, a freeze on 
interest and fees or by agreeing reasonable repayments. And if this had happened, I think 
the default action would have been stopped.
Ms W didnt get this call, so this didnt happen. But when Ms W called 25 June 2019, having 
already made Ikano aware of her financial difficulties Id have expected them to have offered 
her the above help. But again, this didnt happen.
I have looked at the ICO guidance on the registering of a default. And I can see it says a 
default should be registered where a relationship between the parties has broken down or 
where there are arrears between three and six months. 
Ms W had told Ikano of her financial difficulties on more than one occasion. And I can see 
that Ms W made a payment that was close to the required amount. So, I dont think this 
shows that the relationship between Ms W and Ikano had broken down. And I dont think 
Ikano acted reasonably or proportionately by registering a default on Ms Ws credit file. 
The ICO guidance says: a record lodged with a CRA must be a reliable reflection of an 
individuals credit standing. And by recording a default I dont think this is a true reflection 
as Ms W has shown that she continued in July 2019 to make payments to her account to 
bring it up to date. So, I think Ikano should remove the adverse information from Ms Ws 
credit file.
In August 2019, Ikano made a commercial decision to sell Ms Ws debt to another business. 
I can understand Ms W being upset by this. Lenders generally take this action as these 
businesses are able to be more flexible with the payments and amounts theyre able to 
accept. But Id have expected Ms W to be made fully aware that this was going to happen. 
Ikano havent sent their terms and conditions but said that the default notice explained to Ms 
W that this was an option. 
As mentioned above, Ms W said in the call 25 June 2019 that she hadnt received the default 
notice that explained this. And I havent seen any other contact with Ms W where Ikano has 
told her that this would be happening. But I can see that Ms W tried to set up another direct 
debit and continued to make payments to Ikano which I think supports her understanding 
that she remained a customer of Ikanos. So, I think it would have been upsetting for her to be contacted by another business asking her to repay her debt. For the trouble and upset 
this caused I think Ikano should pay Ms W £150.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
remove the adverse information from Ms Ws credit file; and
pay her £150 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman