DRN-2750532
The complaint
Mr B1 and Mrs F complain (on behalf of their mother Mrs B) that Key Retirement Solutions 
Limited arranged an unsuitable lifetime mortgage.
Mr B1 and Mrs F have brought this complaint under a Lasting Power of Attorney.
What happened
In 2002 Mrs B took out a lifetime mortgage for £40,000. She took the mortgage out with her 
husband, Mr B, and when he died the mortgage moved to being in her sole name.
The lifetime mortgage was first discussed in May 2002, and at that time Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to apply for the maximum loan amount of £32,000. It was recorded they wanted the 
money to pay off their existing mortgage, buy a car and for some home improvements.
A valuation of their property was undertaken and that came in higher than theyd thought. 
But it also noted that some tiles needed replacing that contained asbestos.
As a result of the increase in the property value, the maximum loan amount was increased to 
£40,000 which Mr and Mrs B applied for. However, nothing further could be done until the 
work on the roof had been completed
Mr and Mrs B provided proof that the work had been done in November, and they signed the 
loan agreement a few days later. They then met with their solicitor, and the mortgage 
eventually completed at the end of December 2002.
The mortgage was on an index-linked variable rate of between 4.89% and 10.14%, and the 
terms of the mortgage provided that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is 
that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time 
residential nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those 
events have happened, but then an early repayment charge is usually payable.
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid.
In 2020 Mr B1 and Mrs F registered the Lasting Power of Attorney, and complained about 
the sale of the lifetime mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think Key Retirement Solutions had done anything wrong and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr B1 and Mrs F didnt agree so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr B1 and Mrs F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and 
impartial. We are not consumer champions, nor do we carry out a consumer protection role 
and we dont act either for consumers or the financial businesses about which they are 
complaining. I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will 
be looked at and what questions should be asked or answered. We are also not the 
regulator; thats the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to weigh up the evidence and 
decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for individual complaints.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs B were 
consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Following Mr Bs death, Mrs B became the sole eligible complainant. The rules also say that 
a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by 
the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mrs Bs children - Mr B1 and 
Mrs F - are bringing the complaint on Mrs Bs behalf. But I must explain that, although Mr B1 
and Mrs F are representing her, it is Mrs B who is Key Retirement Solutions customer. 
Mr B1 and Mrs F role is to bring Mrs Bs complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr B1 and Mrs F to air their own grievances about the lifetime 
mortgage because theyre not the eligible complainants here; their role is limited to putting 
forward their mothers complaint.
In this decision Ive looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Key 
Retirement Solutions did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I 
can give no regard to the regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the 
intervening years might have brought.
Its impossible for us now to establish everything that was discussed between Mr and Mrs B 
and the adviser at the time. Im aware that nearly 20 years have passed since the lifetime 
mortgage was sold. Due to the passage of time, it can be difficult in such complaints to be 
certain of exactly what was discussed and agreed at the time.
In such instances we typically look at the records from the time to try to get the best 
impression possible of what was discussed. However, thats not the end of the matter. We 
also look at the wider transactions and the specific circumstances of the consumer(s) at the 
time of the sales to try to establish if a product was mis-sold.
Id like to reassure Mr B1 and Mrs F that Ive carefully reviewed the documents available 
from the time of the sale to try to build up a picture of what happened. And Ive used all this 
evidence to try to determine whether Key Retirement Solutions mis-sold the lifetime 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs B and if it was clearly unsuitable for their needs at the time. And to 
be clear, just because something isnt recorded as Mr B1 and Mrs F would now want, 
doesnt mean the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold.This type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and interest rolls up over the 
years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can sometimes come as a shock to 
family members. But that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  so here 
that was Mr and Mrs B  didnt understand the consequences of the interest roll up and 
werent happy to agree to it. This was Mr and Mrs Bs house and their equity. If they wanted 
to enjoy their money at a time when they still could, then it would be highly inappropriate for 
me to say that they shouldnt have been allowed to do so.
I also note that Mr and Mrs B had independent advice from their own solicitor before they 
took out the lifetime mortgage. If the solicitor had thought Mr and Mrs B werent able to 
understand the nature of the transaction they were entering into, the solicitor had a duty to 
inform the lender, under the Safe Home Income Plans rules in place at the time.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2002. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly. But its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. They are even more important in cases like this where one of the 
mortgage holders has died, and weve been told the other doesnt recall taking out the 
mortgage. Unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
Mr B1 and Mrs F have said they find it hard to believe their mother, who had been a school 
teacher all her life, would have taken out such a product. Theyve also said they only 
recently found out about the mortgage when they were sorting out Mrs Bs finances.
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs B wanted to pay off their existing mortgage (which they had 
to make monthly payments on) to increase their monthly disposable income, buy a car, and 
carry out some home improvements. Those all seem like perfectly valid reasons for 
someone to take out a lifetime mortgage. Theres nothing to indicate that Mr and Mrs B 
lacked the capacity to make those decisions themselves at the time so it would be 
completely wrong of me to now say, nearly twenty years later, that they shouldnt have been 
allowed to.
The sale of this lifetime mortgage was drawn out over nearly eight months due to the work 
that was needed to be completed on Mr and Mrs Bs property before the funds could be 
released. This gave them plenty of time to reconsider whether this was the right thing for 
them, to speak to their children if they wanted to do so, or to have sought further advice. The 
fact they went ahead and carried out works on their home out of their own pocket, indicates 
they wanted this lifetime mortgage.
Having considered the paperwork, what it is recorded that Mr and Mrs B wanted the money 
for, and the fact they had to do some works to the property to even qualify for the mortgage, 
I dont think the fact they took the maximum amount available was inappropriate. It was 
recorded that the adviser had discussed alternative options with them, such as downsizing, 
using their savings or arranging an alternative type of borrowing and those options werent 
suitable.
The interest rate on the mortgage is variable and is linked to movement in the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI), and is subject to a minimum and maximum rate. The mortgage documentation 
states that the interest rate will not be lower than 4.89% per annum or higher than 10.14% 
per annum.When the contract was entered into, the lender advanced the funds in the knowledge that it 
would receive no interest or capital for many years. And Mr and Mrs B knew (from the advice 
they received from Key Retirement Solutions and their own solicitor) that they had the use of 
the money without needing to make any repayments, with this eventually coming out of the 
equity in their home.
The terms on which the lender offers products to customers is a matter for its own 
commercial judgement, and Key Retirement Solutions did nothing wrong in advising on a 
variable rate product, rather than a fixed rate product. It is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  or the Financial Services Authority as it was then  to oversee and 
regulate products offered to the public. If the FCA thought that linking the interest rate to the 
RPI is inherently unfair, it has powers which allow it to intervene. But as the FCA has not 
taken any action in relation to this type of mortgage, this rather suggests that the FCA is 
satisfied that using an interest rate linked to the RPI is not unfair to consumers and therefore 
I cant find that Key Retirement Solutions did anything wrong in recommending that where, 
as here, it met the consumers recorded wants and needs.
Whilst the interest rate range sounds high in the current climate, these rates were set in 
2002 when the financial landscape was very different from what it is now. For much of the 
first decade of the 21st century, the general expectation was that rates generally were 
already low and more likely to rise than fall over the short to medium term. All that changed 
in late 2007/early 2008, when the financial crisis struck, and rates plummeted to record lows 
from which theyve still not moved significantly. That could not possibly have been forecast in 
2002.
It was not for Key Retirement Solutions to question whether Mr and Mrs B had spoken to 
their children. The adviser wrote I have recommended that you notify anyone who could 
inherit from your estate of your intentions.
Its not uncommon for parents to want to keep their finances private from their children. Im 
sure Mr B1 and Mrs F can see how many complaints would be made if a lender refused to 
lend money to an adult who is capable of making their own decisions, unless their child was 
notified; Im sure most people would see how inappropriate and intrusive that would be. If 
Mr and Mrs B decided not to discuss their plans with their children, that was entirely their 
decision to make, it was their house and their equity after all. 
The paperwork from the time set out the nature of the interest rate, and how the interest 
would roll up over the years based on a range of inflation scenarios. It said:
You, or your estate, must repay the loan of £40000.00 with interest including index-
linking. Your home may need to be sold to do this. Well continue to add interest to your 
loan until its repaid.
The following table shows what you would have to pay us under this loan for a range of 
inflation scenarios.
These figures assume the minimum interest rate is 4.89% and the maximum 
interest rate is 10.14% per annum.The tables then showed the following figures:
Inflation 0% each year Inflation 2.5% each year Inflation 5% each year
Year 1 £41,956 £43,005 £44,054
Year 5 £50,784 £57,458 £64,815
Year 10 £64,476 £82,535 £105,025
Year 20 £103,930 £170,302 £275,758
Beneath that were the explanations:
We would charge the minimum interest rate in any year when the rate of inflation is 0% 
or less.
We would charge the maximum interest rate in any year when the rate of inflation is 5% 
or more.
There was a separate section Will there be any money left after your home is sold? which 
included figures based on the potential increase in property value against the potential 
increase in mortgage, with the explanation:
IMPORTANT: These figures are only examples of what might happen. Theyre not 
minimum or maximum amounts. Please remember the following points:
You or your estate could get back more or less than the amounts shown.
If your total loan plus interest is greater than the selling price of your home, we will 
accept the selling price in full and final settlement of everything owing to us. 
Neither you nor your estate will be left owing us money. This is our no negative 
equity guarantee.
There will also be selling costs to be paid, such as estate agents and solicitors fees.
The loan term may be different from the terms shown in the examples.
The rate of inflation may be different from the rates shown in the examples.
Your home may be sold for a different amount from the figures shown in the 
examples.
Mr and Mrs B had some clear aims and this lifetime mortgage achieved those. Theres 
nothing to show they were vulnerable at the time, or unable to understand the contract they 
were entering into. The advice given doesnt seem inappropriate and the paperwork set-out 
the nature of the contract they were entering into.
In the circumstances, the options available to Mr and Mrs B were very limited. They were 
clear that they didnt want to sell their property, and so Im satisfied that equity release was a 
suitable option for them.
Having very carefully considered this matter I dont consider Key Retirement Solutions did 
anything wrong when it gave the advice to Mr and Mrs B about this lifetime mortgage as Im 
not persuaded the product was unsuitable for them.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman