DRN-3237507
The complaint
 Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL), treated him 
unfairly when he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
I will refer to the business as Amex throughout my decision. 
What happened
 Mr A holds a credit card with Amex. In October 2020, having already missed Septembers 
payment, he contacted Amex to request a payment holiday. He said hed lost his job as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic and was struggling to meet his repayments. 
Amex agreed to a three-month payment holiday for Mr A in line with temporary guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This meant he wasnt required to pay his 
October, November or December payments and, in line with the FCA guidance, no 
additional adverse information was due to be reported during this time.
In January 2021 following the payment holiday, Mr A was still struggling to make payments 
so he contacted Amex again. But this time, rather than extending the payment break for a 
further three months (which was an available option), Amex chose to put Mr A on its 
REGAIN programme. This is where they cancel all interest and charges on the account, 
and agree a repayment plan; they also default the account, and pass it to a third-party 
company to manage.
Mr A agreed to go onto the REGAIN programme, but said it was his understanding that it 
wouldnt negatively impact his credit file. He later found out that Amex had recorded adverse 
information against him with the credit reference agencies during this period, and his arrears 
had increased, which he felt they shouldnt have. So he complained. 
Amex said they shouldve told Mr A his account was a month in arrears when they approved 
the first payment holiday, and that these arrears would continue to reflect on his account 
during the repayment holiday. But they said the arrears shouldnt have shown as increasing. 
So they agreed to amend his credit file to show the account as no more than one month in 
arrears for both the initial payment missed, and the three-month repayment holiday that 
followed. They also credited his account with £50 for any distress this may have caused. But 
they maintained they were right to move Mr A to their REGAIN programme, and start 
recording new adverse information after the initial three-month payment holiday had expired. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered Mr As complaint and thought Amex shouldve offered Mr A a further three-month 
payment holiday when he contacted them in January 2021. So he said they should rework 
Mr As account to reflect the position it wouldve been in had the second repayment holiday 
been approved; and they should amend his credit file accordingly. He also said Amex should 
take the debt back in-house from the third party theyd transferred it to under their REGAIN 
programme. 
Mr A didnt dispute our investigators recommendation. Amex, in summary, said they felt 
theyd followed their process correctly in not offering the second repayment holiday. They did 
however agree to the investigators recommendation to amend Mr As credit file. But they 
didnt agree to take the debt back in-house unless Mr A provided updated income and 
expenditure details. 
So as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at whether or not I think a second three-month payment break shouldve 
been approved when Mr A spoke with Amex in January. Amex have said that based on 
Mr As circumstances at the time it was decided that the REGAIN programme was the best 
option for him. Their call notes state spoke with CM  recruitment consultant in hospitality  
unlikely to pick back up and no affordability, looking for something new  offered regain. 
Mr A however says he told Amex that his situation should be improving, that he was 
completing part-time work, and was hoping to secure a new position shortly. 
Weve asked Amex for copies of the call recording from January, but theyve been unable to 
locate these. So where two parties version of events differ, I need to decide what I think 
most likely happened. 
Amexs notes from this period are very brief. But Mr A maintains that he spoke to Amex 
about a new role he was hoping to secure, and felt confident he should be in a position to 
resume payments after a further three-month extension. 
To support Mr As testimony, hes provided a letter sent from a perspective employer 
following a job interview with them, asking that he get in touch following the interview. This 
letter was dated 8 January 2021, two days prior to his discussion with Amex. And so, given 
his circumstances, and Mr As testimony, I think its likely he wouldve informed Amex about 
this development when he spoke with them on the 10 January 2021. And I think that 
considering Mr A was confident he wouldve been in a position to resume payments come 
April 2021, on balance, I think Amex shouldve offered him a second three-month repayment 
holiday when they spoke with him in January. Mr A has also told us he was subsequently 
offered this position and is in employment with this company at present. 
Amex has now agreed to remove any new adverse information between October 2020 and 
March 2021. So, Ive gone on to consider whether or not Amex are acting fairly by asking 
Mr A to provide updated income and expenditure details before taking the debt back in-
house. 
When looking at cases of this nature, and any case where I think the business has done 
something wrong, my role is to try as much as is reasonably practicable to put the customer 
back in the position they would have been had it not been for that failing. 
In this instance, Amex have accepted the investigators findings that the credit file should be 
amended to put the customer back in the position they wouldve been in had the second 
break been approved. But in response to the investigators opinion, theyve said its normal 
practice to request updated income and expenditure information from a customer when they 
do so, to satisfy themselves the customer can continue to manage the debt. While I accept this may be their normal practice, had Amex processed a further repayment 
holiday for Mr A in January 2021, the account wouldve been no further in arrears at the end 
of March than it wouldve been at the start of the first repayment holiday. And as Amex only 
moved his account to the third party to manage in January 2021 when it could see the 
account was going to fall further in arrears, I dont think this wouldve happened had the 
second repayment holiday been approved, as his arrears should not have increased.
So, as I think its unlikely Mr As account wouldve been transferred to a third party had the 
second repayment holiday been agreed, I dont think its fair for Amex to impose new 
restrictions now (such as an updated income and expenditure) in order to move the account 
back to where it wouldve been had it not been for Amexs failing. 
I can also see that Mr A started a new job around March 2021 and has paid £195 towards 
this debt every month from then up until now. So I think hes sufficiently demonstrated his 
ability to repay the monies owed without further income and expenditure checks being 
completed. 
I therefore uphold Mr As complaint and direct Amex to put things right as follows. 
 
Putting things right
Amex should, if it hasnt already:
- rework Mr As account to put it back in the position it wouldve been had the second 
repayment holiday been approved in January 2021, and the debt not passed to a 
third-party; taking into account the FCAs guidance and, and treating any payments 
made to the third-party company as payments towards the credit card debt;
- amend the credit file so that no additional adverse information is recorded for the 
six-month period the repayment holiday would have run for;
- bring the debt back in-house to be managed, with no additional steps required on 
Mr As part in order to do so, such as income and expenditure checks. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) should put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman