DRN-4063995
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services 
Limited (LV). He says that whilst he was given advice not to transfer, he didnt think the 
benefits he was giving up from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme were 
fully explained. And he thinks that the DB transfer was unsuitable for him and it has caused 
a financial loss. He says that he wasnt an insistent customer. 
What happened
Mr S was approached by LV in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand Mr S employer arranged this and Mr S met with LV at his place of employment 
along with a group of his colleagues. After this initial meeting there was some contact by 
telephone so Mr S could receive the advice. 
LV gathered some information about Mr S circumstances and objectives. This showed that: 
He was aged 59 and married with no dependent children. 
He and his wife owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage. This would 
be fully repaid in 2018. 
Mr and Mrs S were employed, and their income was above their expenditure at the 
time. 
They both had savings of about £12,000.
Mr S had defined contribution (DC) pension funds of about £19,000 and he was still 
contributing to a DC scheme. 
LV also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, which it said was low medium. It 
was recorded that Mr S attitude to risk in general was higher than this, but this was the risk 
he was comfortable with taking in respect of his pension arrangements. It was noted that 
Mr S had limited investment experience. 
On 20 October 2017, LV issued its first suitability report, this said that Mr S was considering 
transferring his pension because: 
He liked the idea of flexibility and getting hold of the capital. He wanted access to 
his pension fund as and when it was required.
He wanted to be able to leave his pension to his wife and children on his death.
The report advised Mr S not to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. It said 
that I have now reviewed your scheme in full, together with your objective, and I recommend 
that you remain a member of your scheme and reassess your income and capital 
requirements when you retire from working. This report did explain the benefits that Mr S 
was giving up and it included information about the risks of the personal pension. It said that 
Mr S had no need for income or capital from this pension at the time. And he only had the 
state pension as a guaranteed income for life and so he may have a shortfall in his income if 
the personal pension didnt perform well. LV said Mr S should keep his options open and 
think about a transfer later on as he neared retirement. 
LV spoke with Mr S on 26 October 2017 and he confirmed that he had received the report 
and read through it. LV said that its advice was still to remain in the scheme but if Mr S still 
wanted to proceed it would look at a solution based on him being an insistent customer. This 
was near the start of the call, the remainder of the call was mainly discussing the investment 
options Mr S had. 
Mr S said that he would still like to proceed and LV agreed to facilitate this. LV again said at 
this point that Mr S would be taking on the risk of the personal pension rather than the DB 
scheme bearing the risk of providing his pension benefits. And it said that he would need to 
complete an insistent client form before the transfer could go ahead. 
Mr S completed an insistent customer declaration on 3 November 2017. In this he confirmed 
that he understood the main parts of the advice and he said in his own words why he wanted 
to transfer. He said that: 
After reading all the information you sent me and what we talked about on the phone I feel 
that I would still like to go ahead with the transfer doing this will give me the opportunity to 
access funds if and when required instead of everything being paid to me in annuities
Another representative of LV spoke to Mr S on 9 November 2017. It explained the advice 
and the differences between the two schemes and the risk of the transfer. And LV said that 
is would send a second report after this call. It described this second report as a set of 
application forms. Rather than advice documents which Mr S should have carefully 
considered. 
The second suitability letter was issued on the same day. It was similar to the earlier 
suitability report in that it contained the same advice and information about the suitability of 
the transfer. It did contain some further detail, as well as a summary of the insistent 
customer process. 
The transfer proceeded in January 2018. The amount transferred was £123,650 and Mr S 
money was invested in one of LVs portfolio of managed funds. 
Mr S complained in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that: 
He believed LV had a conflict of interest as the pension transfer earned them an 
ongoing adviser fee.
He has lost the security of a guaranteed pension income for him and his wife. He has 
been exposed to investment risk unnecessarily. 
Mr S didnt understand the value of the benefits he was giving up, or the risks of the 
personal pension. And he didnt think this was fully explained to him. 
LV didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said the advice it gave was for him to remain in the DB 
scheme. Mr S signed a declaration after it gave him the advice which confirmed he 
understood it, but he wanted the opportunity to access his funds early in any event. Mr S has 
since changed his investment funds and engaged with his pension planning. This suggests 
he was happy with the advice. He also confirmed that he understood the advice in the 
telephone calls between him and LV. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that LV should pay compensation. She said that he didnt think that the 
transfer was in Mr S best interests. And she didnt think the insistent customer process was 
robust. She didnt think that Mr S was driving the transaction. If LV had acted correctly, she 
thought it was likely that Mr S wouldnt have transferred.LV disagreed saying that it gave Mr S the correct advice not to transfer his personal pension. 
It also said that it had given Mr S clear information about the DB transfer and there were 
periods in the advice process when he could think about this information without pressure. 
Mr S had made the decision to transfer against its advice. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LV's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, LV should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Its not disputed that the transfer was likely to leave Mr S worse off in retirement. To show 
this was the case LV carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the 
regulator) showing how much Mr S pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
Mr S was 59 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 65. The critical yield 
required to match Mr S benefits at age 65 was 11.2% if he took a full pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.4% per year for 6 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr S 
low to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 3.4%, I think Mr S was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. 
And LV did acknowledge this was the case. And the written information does explain that 
Mr S would likely achieve lower retirement benefits due to the transfer, and why this was. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr S best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice as LV has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean that it was reasonable for 
LV to assist with the transfer, despite it providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
these below alongside thinking about whether Mr S was an insistent customer.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think LV explored to what extent Mr S 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Mr S was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been 
useful to his wife if Mr S predeceased her. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance. Again, it was noted that this was a valuable benefit 
and Mr S shouldnt give this up. 
And LV explored life insurance which was the right thing to do if Mr S genuinely wanted to 
leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death. Mr S didnt want to start a life insurance policy. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I cant see that LV 
recommended that Mr S transfer for this reason. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr S desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr S was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr S  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
The funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Mr S should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension
Suitability of investments
LV recommended that Mr S invest in a portfolio of managed funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr S should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in these funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr S said that he wanted to transfer to potentially increase the flexibility he would have when 
he came to take his pension benefits. In the telephone calls he consistently talks about 
taking the tax free cash and placing this in a bank account and investing the remainder. And 
he wanted to do this on the basis he might want to use the money in the future. That said, 
its clear Mr S had no immediate need for the money. He wanted to transfer on the basis that 
he thought it was a good idea for the future. 
So, I dont think Mr S required flexibility at the time of the advice, in fact he essentially said 
that he didnt have any need for the money straight away. I also cant see evidence that Mr S 
had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. This doesnt seem to have 
been discussed.
The suitability report shows that Mr and Mrs S current income met their needs. They didnt 
need to repay any debt urgently. And the analysis LV did showed that if Mr and Mrs S both 
took their state pension, and used their existing pension provision, then they would have a 
surplus income in retirement. There were a number of scenarios considered that show that, 
even if Mr S took early retirement, their current arrangements would meet their potential 
income and expenditure needs at retirement. I wont detail as all of this, as both parties to 
the complaint are aware of it and dont dispute it. 
So, Im satisfied Mr S could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at age 65, and probably earlier if this is what he wanted.
Again, LV did say that Mr S shouldnt make any decision about transferring at the time of 
advice. It said he should wait to do this until his needs were clearer. 
But I think that LV should only have facilitated this transfer if it was clear that Mr S was an 
insistent customer. So, Ive considered this next. 
Was Mr S an insistent customerLV says that Mr S was an insistent customer and he confirmed that he wanted to proceed 
with the DB transfer despite LV advising him not to do this. Ive looked to see if this is the 
case. 
In February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what steps it 
expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, 
which it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that a 
business needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action 
and that they are acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own 
words to indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a 
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected LV to have been aware of this 
and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
LVs role was to find out what Mr S wants and needs were and why he wanted to transfer 
his pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr S wanted. It had to act in his best 
interests.
And I think in this case for Mr S to be an insistent customer it needs to be clear that he had a 
definite want or need to transfer. And he was set on gaining the advantages he perceived he 
would from the transfer. And he understood he was going against the advice of LV when he 
did this and what the implications and risks of this were. 
LVs communications, both written and oral, with Mr S did set out that its recommendation 
was not to proceed with the transfer, but I think this was undermined by the process itself. I 
think LV didnt do enough to ensure Mr S understood what he was giving up. And accepted 
that he wanted to transfer with very little challenge. I think it ought to have been clear to LV that Mr S had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. He doesnt 
seem to have been an experienced investor. Ive not seen any evidence that he had 
considered his retirement, or the DB scheme benefits, in any detail before the advice. This 
shouldve put LV on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the 
insistent client route. I dont think that LV was careful here, it seems to have accepted Mr S 
aims and his desire to transfer with very little challenge. Particularly in the telephone calls. 
Mr first concern is that Mr S didnt seek advice himself. The transfer came about due to Mr S 
meeting an adviser from LV at his place of employment. Mr S now says the LV adviser 
spoke very favourably about the DB transfer and Mr S says he was persuaded to transfer by 
LV saying the funds would be readily available and the investment was safe like a 
government bond or gilt. Of course, there is no written record of what was discussed at this 
first meeting but it doesnt seem unreasonable to say that Mr S left it with a favourable 
impression of the transfer. This wouldnt be right as LV hadnt given personalised advice yet. 
Mr S did complete and insistent customer form. Part of this was templated in respect of the 
risks of the transfer. Given Mr S level of experience, I think it wouldve been important for LV 
to ensure Mr S understood what he was getting into fully, but I dont think the insistent 
customer form adequately demonstrates this. Im not persuaded Mr S was able to make an 
informed choice here.
Mr S did say in his own words why he wanted to transfer. But this was simply a repetition of 
why he thought the transfer was a good idea. Im not persuaded this was enough to show he 
was an insistent customer. 
Mr S seems to have transferred as he wanted better access to his money in the future. But 
this isnt a good reason to transfer given the likely financial loss it would cause him. And I 
dont think this was properly explained to him. So, I dont think there was a real driver for the 
transfer that came from Mr S. 
In summary while LV acknowledged the transfer of Mr S DB scheme benefits wasnt 
suitable for him, I dont think the process was robust enough here. It looks to me like Mr S 
made his decision to transfer at an early point, possibly after the first meeting. And he didnt 
understand what he was giving up. Even though I accept LV did include risk warnings and 
explanations in the documentation, Im not sure Mr S understood them. LV should have 
taken this on board and changed how it advised Mr S. I think its more likely than not that the 
provision of full information and better analysis wouldve influenced his decision making.
LV say that their insistent client process follows the FCAs guidance, especially as Mr S put 
in his own words why he wanted to proceed with the transfer. But the FCA had said client 
disclaimers should be clear what the advice is, the risks of the clients chosen actions and 
that the action is against the recommendation being made. But I dont think Mr S response 
adequately demonstrates that Mr S knew and understood the risks involved in the transfer 
and the benefits hed be losing by doing so. So, as Ive said above, I dont think that 
document alone sufficiently showed Mr S was an insistent client.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the
process LV followed meant that Mr S can truly be regarded as an insistent client. LVs 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr S best interests. And it failed to act 
with due care and skill.
If LV had followed the guidance for an insistent client process correctly, I dont think Mr S 
wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transferSummary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr S. 
Ultimately, I dont think Mr S transferring away from his DB scheme was suitable. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr S was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think Mr S was an insistent 
customer
So, I dont think LV should have facilitated this transfer. 
In light of the above, I think LV should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable transfer, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
LV must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LV should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts LVs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr S end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, LV may make 
a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr S likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Advice Services Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services Limited pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Advice Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman