DRN-1895810
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way double glazing was sold to her using a Fixed Sum Loan 
agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited. 
What happened
A salesman for a double glazing company cold called at Mrs Bs home towards the end of 
2013. An appointment for a further visit was made for December 2013. After a 3-4 hour 
meeting, Mrs B signed papers agreeing to buy windows at what she believed to be a 
discounted price. She agreed to do so using finance arranged with Shawbrook. In 
January 2014, Mrs B signed the finance agreement and the windows were fitted. Mrs B also 
signed a customer satisfaction note confirming she was happy with the installation. The 
windows came with a 10 year warranty.
The credit agreement shows the amount of credit as £5,675 with 120 monthly payments of 
£126.54 - a total amount payable of around £15,300 including fees and interest. Mrs B 
repaid the agreement early  within a year - having paid a total of £6,478.87.
In 2019, Mrs B complained to Shawbrook through a claims management company (CMC). 
The CMC raised a number of legal arguments around the sale of the agreement and the 
business practices of the window company, such as offering her a lower price if she took 
finance rather than pay by other means. It said the window company had breached the 
contract it held with Mrs B as they had ceased trading, which meant her 10 year warranty 
was invalid. It said Shawbrook had not carried out an affordability assessment to ensure Mrs 
B could manage the credit they provided.
Shawbrook looked into Mrs Bs complaint. They said Mrs B had saved money by using the 
credit as shed paid a total of £6,478.87 and the cash price shed have had to pay would 
have been £6,619. Shawbrook acknowledged that the warranty was no longer valid as a 
result of the window company no longer trading, but said they would consider any claim she 
wished to make on it under the terms and conditions of the finance agreement. Shawbrook 
said affordability checks were carried out based on the information provided by the 
consumer and she met their lending criteria. They didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, the CMC referred Mrs Bs complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it but didnt uphold it. Shawbrook accepted the investigators 
opinion but Mrs B didnt. 
On her behalf, the CMC said (in summary) that the investigator had ignored Mrs Bs 
testimony, that she wouldnt have purchased the windows if the salesman hadnt pressured 
her into it using illegal sales practices, and that the window company had been found guilty 
in court of using unfair pressure sales tactics. It said other cases in which similar complaints 
had been made had been successful.
As there was no agreement, Mrs Bs complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs CMC has presented a lot of evidence to support her case which Ive carefully read. 
Just because I dont comment on a point doesnt mean I havent read or considered it. Much 
of whats been said sets out various legal arguments. However the crux of the matter seems 
to be that the CMC says Mrs B had no intention of buying new windows and only did so 
because she was unfairly pressured into it. My role is to reach a decision on the basis of 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable taking into account things such as the law, 
regulation and good industry practice. Its important to note that this decision only relates to 
whether I believe Shawbrook has treated Mrs B fairly.
Ive carefully read and thought about Mrs Bs testimony as mentioned by her CMC. Ive 
highlighted this in particular because I note the CMCs comment that it feels it was ignored 
by our investigator. I dont think it was ignored - our investigator refers to some of the points 
from it in her opinion of the case. The CMC has said Mrs B wouldnt have bought the 
windows but for the high pressure sales tactics. From everything Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded thats the case. 
Mrs Bs mentioned that the meeting came about following a cold canvass door knock a few 
days previous. She says she wasnt specifically looking for replacement windows but 
agreed to a further visit as she were told there were good savings to be made if she agreed 
to be a show home.
Mrs B says the quote the salesman initially gave for the work was £8,435, but after further 
negotiations a price of £5,775 was offered if Mrs B took finance to pay for them. She tells us 
she asked what the price would be if she paid cash instead, and was given a price of £6,519, 
so she elected to take the finance.
Ive found the testimony from Mrs B and her husband to be quite persuasive, but I dont think 
it supports her complaint in the way her CMC suggests. If Mrs B had had no interest in 
purchasing windows, I think it unlikely that she and her husband wouldve agreed to the 
sales meeting. She describes the meeting in quite some detail, and I can see that it would 
have taken a long time for the salesman to discuss everything, take measurements etc.
Mrs B says that the salesman said if we were really interested he would call his manager 
and see if he could get us an even better deal. As it seems he did contact his manager, 
Mrs B and her husband mustve said they were interested. Mrs B says the salesman asked if 
they would go ahead tonight if he could do something really special and we both nodded 
at the same time. So it seems they were happy to go ahead if the price was right. I think that 
Mrs B was interested in buying some new windows for the right price and Im not persuaded 
she was pressured into making a purchase she didnt want to make.
The CMC has argued that the sale of the finance was unfair because theyd made it 
artificially cheaper to pay by finance than any other method. Its true to say that the finance 
price was lower than the cash price even with the interest she paid. But as Im persuaded 
that Mrs B did want to buy some windows and she paid less by taking the finance than she 
would have had she paid cash, she hasnt lost out financially. This means theres no basis 
for me to make an award here.
Ive noted what the CMC has said about the window company being found guilty in court of 
using high pressure sales techniques. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs Bs sale was 
part of that court case. And, as Ive said, I dont think what Mrs B has said about the meeting 
suggests she made a purchase she didnt want, or that she lost out financially by using 
finance rather than paying cash.Mrs B says the salesman told them not to think about cancelling ashe would get into 
trouble so its clear she was aware that cancelling the purchase and/or the finance was a 
possibility. If she was unhappy with their decision to purchase, I dont think whether or not 
the salesman might get into trouble would have prevented her from cancelling the 
agreement. And if she felt shed been subjected to high pressure sales and was unhappy 
with the terms of the agreement shed reached, she knew she could cancel it. But she didnt 
and carried on with the purchase.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) has the effect of making the window 
company the agent of Shawbrook during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs B 
entering into the loan agreement. In broad terms this means Shawbrook can be held 
responsible for the things the window company did or said during the sales process. 
Section 75 of the CCA says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. One of the circumstances 
for such a claim to be valid is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. 
The formal wording for a DCS agreement is set out in section 12 of the CCA. In summary it 
says there needs to be a three-party agreement between a debtor, a creditor and a supplier. 
In this complaint Mrs B is the debtor, Shawbrook are the creditor and the window company 
were the supplier, so Im satisfied there were the required relationships here.
Ive seen the contract Mrs B signed and five windows were ordered. Shes not said at any 
stage the windows werent provided, and she signed a customer satisfaction note to say she 
was happy with the installation. So Ive not seen any evidence of a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract that would lead to me think Shawbrook didnt treat her fairly in relation to 
her claim under section 75 with regards to the supply and installation of the windows. 
But Mrs Bs testimony says that her front window is now broken. Presumably shed have 
liked to make a claim on her warranty but its no longer valid as the company has ceased 
trading. So there is a breach of contract here as she can no longer claim on the warranty for 
the goods she bought. Depending on the terms of the warranty and the cause of the 
problem, that may give rise to a claim against Shawbrook under section 75. Shawbrook have 
said theyre aware of their obligations in that regard, but Ive seen nothing which suggests 
Mrs B has made a claim to them.
Mrs Bs CMC has said other similar complaints raised involving the same window company 
have been successful. I cant comment on other cases as the circumstances of every 
consumer  and therefore every complaint - are different and we consider each one on their 
own merits. Ive seen nothing which indicates that Shawbrook have treated Mrs B unfairly in 
consideration of her claim under section 75. If she feels the damage to her front window 
would have been covered under the warranty, Id encourage her to contact Shawbrook and 
talk to them about it.
Ive thought about whether appropriate checks were carried out to ensure Mrs B could afford 
the finance with Shawbrook. The loan was for £5,675 repayable over 10 years and Mrs B 
was retired and in her mid-60s at the time. So I would have expected Shawbrook to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure she could afford the commitment over 
the length of the agreement.
Unfortunately, Shawbrook have little evidence regarding the checks they say were carried 
out at the point of sale. Given the complaint was raised over five years after the loan had 
been made and four years after it had been repaid, I dont think thats unusual. But Shawbrook say she passed their credit scoring system at the time and while the agreement 
was in place, she made all the payments and repaid it early  within a year of it being drawn.
So Ive considered if Ive got any evidence that shows the loan was unaffordable. Neither 
Mrs B nor her CMC have said she couldnt afford the finance. The CMC have said no 
affordability checks were carried out at all. While this may have been a breach of the rules 
by Shawbrook, that doesnt mean I should uphold the complaint; rather Id look to see if the 
consumer has lost out financially. Ive seen nothing which suggests Mrs B has lost out  
indeed, it appears she made a saving by taking the finance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman