DRN-2814281
The complaint
Mr S says Advanced Asset Consultants Ltd (AAC) failed to maintain planning permission on, 
market or sell the land investment he held in his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
Yorsipp. He says this has caused him financial detriment.
What happened
In March 2010, Mr S was advised by Advanced Asset Management Limited (AAM), an 
appointed representative (AR) of TenetConnect Services Limited (TenetConnect) to invest 
£33,000 of his pension funds in land which had planning permission for housing 
development. He appears to have been part of a syndicate which had around 20 members. 
A SIPP was established with Yorsipp Limited to hold his investment.
The advice provided by AAM noted:
The idea of this investment is to purchase these plots through a syndication of clients 
pension funds, where they will be held for a period of 1-5 yearsAs this is a highly sought-
after area with full planning permission, returns on this investment are likely to be in excess 
of 5% per annum after purchase and sale costs. However, you have agreed at outset that 
this investment is purely to diversify your pension portfolio and to try and obtain a return in 
excess of cash rates.
The FCA register shows that from 1 October 2010 AAM ceased to be an agent of 
TenetConnect from which point it shouldnt have been carrying out regulated activities. 
Information from Companies House shows AAM was dissolved in August 2016.
When he brought his complaint to this Service about AAC, Mr S raised concerns relating to 
what he saw as problems with the initial advice process. For example, he noted:
the adviser didnt work out how much risk I was prepared to take and how much I could 
afford to lose. He didnt explain the risk involved with the investment at all. I was also 
unaware that this was an unregulated investment. I also believe that this investment was 
promoted illegally as you are not allowed to promote non mainstream pooled investment to 
the general public under COBS 4.12. I am not a [high net-worth] individual, nor am I a 
sophisticated investor. No previous experience. No other pension savings
Mr S has also raised concerns about the due diligence performed by the firms involved and 
the advice provided when his SIPP with Yorsipp was established about the intended 
investment.
Mr S has brought a separate complaint against TenetConnect for its role in what happened. 
So, for example, I wont be considering matters related to the initial advice provided or the 
arrangements made in March 2010, including what he was or wasnt told about the status of 
the planning permission associated with the land in which he bought an interest, about how 
the syndicate would operate or about the suitability of the investment made.
Mr S has also raised a complaint against Yorsipp Limited. As is normal, the trustees of his 
SIPP hold title to the land. So, it had an interest in the appointment of appropriately qualified 
parties in relation to the initial transaction. There may also be matters related to any 
agreement between it and the syndicate and third parties with regard to expectations and 
requirements for ongoing property/land management.
While these are important matters, they were not the responsibility of AAC insofar as the 
agreement it had with Mr S as servicing agent for his SIPP with Yorsipp. He did however 
raise issues which AAC are potentially answerable for. He summarised his key concerns 
about its acts and omissions in the following terms:
You have failed to maintain planning permission which lapsed more than a year ago. You 
have not marketed the property in any manner either before or after planning permission 
lapsed. You have not sought to gain planning permission for the land in over a year (since it 
lapsed in 2013!!) You have failed in your duty of care to protect my investment.
These are the matters I will consider in this decision.
Initially AAC didnt consent to this Service considering Mr Ss case. It said hed brought his 
complaint outside the time limits we have to work within. The investigator set out why he 
thought Mr S had made his complaint in time. I note that in responding to his view AAC gave 
consent for us to look into what had happened. It follows that I dont now need to consider 
further the matter of our jurisdiction in relation to time limits.
AAC refuted the basis of Mr Ss case. It said it wasnt responsible for the management or 
oversight of the land and this was a matter for members of the syndicate. It also noted hed 
been employed by both TenetConnect and itself, so he was aware of the risks involved in 
the investment.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss case. Amongst other matters, he couldnt find evidence 
showing AAC had been responsible for matters such as maintaining planning permission for 
the plots. He also thought Mr Ss background meant he wouldve likely been aware of and 
involved in what was happening with the investment.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view. He said:
AAC did try to market the property previously and indeed did have a for sale sign erected at 
the road end. However, they had not obtained planning permission. This indicates to me that 
they had assumed responsibility for maintaining the value and sale of the property.
As Mr S rejected the investigators conclusions, his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that although Mr S worked for AAC, unfortunately relations between the parties 
have become fraught. Both have cast doubt on each others credibility and motives. Theres 
conflicting testimony about what happened and gaps in what we know.
In this situation, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance 
of probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
I tend to put more weight on evidence that is contemporaneous with the events complained 
about, in my experience even with the best intentions, memories can and do fade. Recollections and impressions today can sometimes omit nuance and detail that proves to 
be important.
Both parties have provided information and argument about the events complained about. 
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows 
that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around relationships like those between Mr S and 
AAC. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G). These include:
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 8, a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like AAC. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
In thinking about the specifics of this complaint I need to try to understand the nature and 
scope of the customer relationship between Mr S and AAC. I also think Mr Ss background 
and involvement with the events that took place and the firms involved is important context.
Its not in dispute that TenetConnect (as principal for AAM) was responsible for the advice 
Mr S received in March 2010 to invest as part of a syndicate, in a land holding through a 
SIPP. This Service has already issued a final decision with regard to matters raised by Mr S 
against it, where these were within our jurisdiction.
There are a number of factors that have made getting to the bottom of this complaint more 
complicated than it would otherwise have been:
- The respective roles and responsibilities of AAM and AAC have been muddied by the 
close association of those firms, the cross-over of staff and the available paperwork, 
particularly with regard to the retail relationship held with Mr S.
- The land investment syndicate, which appears to have been open to staff of AAM 
and AAC, as well as external customers. And the role that appears to have been 
taken on by AAC in supporting the syndicate from time to time.
- Mr Ss employment by AAC between 2015-2018 and his prior relationship with AAM 
as an employee of TenetConnect.
There were clearly risks for AAC to manage here, particularly in terms of conflicts of interest. 
Broadly, while I cant say these matters were handled perfectly, Ive not seen substantive 
evidence of material transgression.Turning to the customer relationship Mr S had with AAC. It says it took on servicing agency 
for him in 2010, but this was only in relation to a level term assurance plan and a separate 
SIPP with Standard Life.
Ive seen a client agreement between Mr S and AAC dated 5 June 2014. Its a generic 
contract setting out the advice services on offer in broad terms. Theres also a more detailed 
Valued Service Proposition (VSP) he signed at the same time.
While these agreements from 2014 dont appear to have covered Mr Ss Yorsipp SIPP, AAC 
has provided a copy of a transfer of servicing request he signed on 24 April 2015, which 
shows it formally took on this plan at that point. Yorsipp has confirmed the same. The 
servicing agreement notes AAC would be responsible for the financial services Mr S 
required in relation to the SIPP.
This chronology indicates AAC didnt have responsibility for oversight of Mr Ss Yorsipp at 
the time planning consent on his land holding lapsed, which he told us happened in 2013. 
But he says it failed in its duty of care because it didnt secure further planning consent for 
the land, and it failed to market or sell his investment.
Having reviewed the VSP, I cant see how it wouldve covered the activities Mr S says AAC 
was responsible for. He signed up for the ongoing Investment Planning Service. This 
provided for an initial discovery meeting, an attitude to risk assessment, a recommendation 
meeting, online valuation access and an annual desk-based review. A further description of 
the service hed signed up for is also instructive:
I/We understand that the fee for this service is 1% of the value of the relevant investments 
each year, £1,000 fixed fee or £175-£250 per hour  4 hours (£700-£1,000) subject to a 
minimum of £100.
I dont think the average person buying an ongoing financial advice package like this would 
expect it to cover matters associated with property and land management. I think arranging 
for the planning permission, marketing and sale of the plots wouldve required coordination 
of expert input and wouldve been subject to additional transactional fees.
Having said this, there is a pattern of AAC involvement with the syndicate, where additional 
fees couldve been incurred by members on their accent. For example, it told this Service:
It is not the responsibility of Advanced Asset Consultants Ltd to maintain nor indeed seek 
planning permission for this land  it is the responsibility of the members of the syndicate. 
The members of the syndicate were approached, nevertheless, by two members of the 
syndicate [currently Executive Directors of AAC], to arrange this, however, some members 
were not willing to contribute towards the cost and this led to it falling through.
It seems Mr S was content to pay for such services. For example, Ive seen a letter of 
instruction from him to Yorsipp dated 26 May 2015, in which he confirms his approval to bear 
his share of the fees for the valuation and marketing of the land holding in which he had an 
interest, in order to proceed with its sale.
AAC confirmed it was involved in trying to sell the land. It told us the impact of the financial 
crisis had impacted on the build-out of the plots and the group of investors had decided they 
should sell their interests. However, matters stalled when four syndicate members refused to 
sign the necessary documentation and the sale fell through.
AAC said that in 2017 a few members of the syndicate tried to resolve the stalemate and 
sent letters about having the land surveyed. Most syndicate members agreed however there were a few who either did not respond or were unwilling to pay the costs for a new survey. 
Further efforts were made, and it seems a member of the syndicate paid for the survey in 
early 2018, hoping to recoup the costs from the others. AAC said:
It was around this time, that Mr S was still an employee of AAC, until his departure in March 
2018. Mr S was well aware of the plans to request a further survey as he was fully involved 
in the process of instructing it The syndicate and survey were continuously discussed with 
Mr S at the time as he washeavily involved in all the admin around it. As Mr S was aware, 
there were some members of the syndicate which refused to cooperate with signing the 
agreement/instruction to sell, and this led to the inability to sell the land.
Mr S has said he only became aware that the value of his Yorsipp had fallen from around 
£33,000 to £7,600 in March 2019. He says that the survey happened in May 2018 and he 
wasnt informed about the outcome. The fact that hed left AAC, apparently in March 2018, 
and shortly afterwards it ended its servicing agency relationship with him, clearly impeded 
effective communications.
However, I wouldve expected communications amongst the syndicate members to have 
remained effective. If they werent, Im not surprised that Mr S only found out about the 
outcome of the survey via his Yorsipp annual statements. But I cant reasonably say thats a 
matter AAC as a firm had control over.
Mr S says that hes been told by a former director at AAM that an offer was made on for the 
land holdings which wouldve returned his investment with a small profit. He says two of the 
current directors declined saying it wasnt enough. Mr S says he wasnt given a chance to 
accept or refuse.
Unfortunately, Mr S hasnt said when this happened, he hasnt been specific about which 
firm (AAM or AAC) received the offer, nor in what capacity the offer was received by the 
individuals concerned, for example as directors of either firm, or as members of the 
syndicate. As such, I consider this specific issue doesnt take him any further forward in 
terms of the specific complaint hes asked this Service to consider against AAC.
Mr Ss genuine concerns and frustrations about what has happened with his investment in 
land appear to stem significantly from how the syndicate worked. The operation of the 
syndicate, how it would identify, decide, coordinate and communicate necessary actions and 
progress, across around 20 members, in pursuit of their collective interests concerning the 
development land, were important matters.
I wouldve expected Mr S to have been advised about how things would work and the 
specific risks associated with the syndicate arrangements and the investment when he 
agreed to put his funds into the land holding. I dont know what discussions he had and the 
advice from AAM in this regard was the subject of a separate complaint.
Ive concluded that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold AAC responsible for the failure of 
the syndicate to reach the necessary agreements about how to proceed with obtaining and 
maintaining planning permission, marketing and selling the plots. That was an inherent 
feature and risk associated with the arrangement, which it didnt advise on.
Turning briefly to Mr Ss role and experience. He was employed by TenetConnect and later 
by AAC. There seems to be some debate amongst the parties about what his role was. 
TenetConnect said the following:
At the time of the sale you were employed by Tenet Group as a field compliance officer, 
part of your duties were to visit Appointed Representatives [AAM] to ensure that they were 
acting inside the permissions provided under their agreement with TenetConnect Services.Mr S told us he wasnt a compliance officer with TenetConnect, but was training and 
competence. AAC says Mr S worked for it as a compliance officer. I cant see he has refuted 
this.
Leaving nuance and precise job titles aside, I think the evidence indicates Mr S did have a 
significant financial services background. I recognise that he has said this did not include 
unregulated products. But for an individual of his experience the investment in development 
land wasnt too complex.
Mr S was employed by AAC from around the time it began servicing his Yorsipp SIPP. I think 
its more likely than not he wouldve had access to information relating to the status of his 
land holding and that he was aware of efforts to move things forward. Theres some 
indication he was directly involved.
I recognise Mr S is frustrated by whats happened. But Ive not seen any evidence the 
problems experienced with his land investment are the fault of AAC. I cant fairly conclude it 
has acted unreasonably. Rather, it seems the difficulties hes had with the valuation and 
selling the property investment were outside of AACs control.
It follows that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. And I dont require Advanced Asset 
Consultants Ltd to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman