DRN-3546854
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt protect her from falling victim to a 
scam and says the level of service she received from them was poor.
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs R fell victim to a scam whereby she received a text message saying she 
had to pay a fee for a parcel to be delivered. Mrs R was expecting a parcel, so she followed 
the link and provided her debit card information and contact details.
A friend alerted Mrs R to the fact that this was a common scam, and the following day she 
called Lloyds and asked them to cancel all of her debit cards. Mrs R says Lloyds didnt 
provide her with any warnings or guidance regarding scams and what steps she could take 
to protect herself.
The following day, Mrs R got a call from a fraudster pretending to work at Lloyds. They told 
Mrs R about four transactions on her account that appeared to be fraudulent, and when she 
confirmed that she hadnt made the transactions in question  they told Mrs R that her 
accounts had been compromised and her funds were at risk. They told Mrs R that they 
needed to act swiftly to secure her money and prevent any further transactions being made. 
As a result, Mrs R made four payments to the bank details the fraudster gave her  totalling 
£25,750.
Eventually the call with the fraudsters cut off for a second time, and Mrs R called Lloyds and 
was able to speak to a genuine staff member. At this point Mrs R became aware that shed 
fallen victim to another scam, and that she hadnt been talking to Lloyds. 
Mrs R raised a fraud claim with Lloyds and asked them to refund the money shed lost. 
During Lloyds investigation into her fraud claim, Mrs R also raised a complaint about the 
poor level of service shed received from them.
Ultimately Lloyds refunded Mrs R 100% of the funds shed lost to the scam and paid her 
£100 compensation, apologising for not providing a better service when she called about the 
scam.
Mrs R wasnt happy with Lloyds offer of £100 and asked us to look into the matter for her.
An investigator reviewed Mrs Rs complaint and felt the £100 compensation for poor service 
wasnt sufficient, and asked Lloyds to pay an extra £150. They noted that Lloyds had paid 
Mrs R £18 separately to cover call costs. The investigator also addressed the refund Lloyds 
had made in regards to the fraud payments, recommending that Lloyds should pay interest 
on the refunded scam payments from the date of the scam to the date of settlement  
awarding interest at the account interest rate for the payments made from her savings 
accounts and at 8% for the payments made from her current account.
Lloyds agreed with the investigators recommendation. However, Mrs R disagreed saying 
the £250 didnt address the short and long-term impact on her emotional wellbeing, also that 
we hadnt recognised the impact on her business. Mrs R told us she was left feeling more 
vulnerable at an already challenging personal time, and that compensation of £2,500 was 
more appropriate considering the level of distress she experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds settling Mrs Rs complaint in relation to the payments she made to the scammer
For completeness, Lloyds have already refunded Mrs R 100% of the funds she lost to the 
scam. When applying a refund Lloyds should, in most cases, also pay interest on those 
funds. In this case, it would mean paying interest at 8% simple interest on the payments 
made from her current account and paying the account interest rate on the payments made 
from her savings accounts. This interest should be calculated from the date the payments 
were made, until the date of settlement. 
As this recommendation is line with our approach and Lloyds have already agreed to pay it, I 
wont comment on it any further  other than to direct Lloyds to make the calculation and 
make the payment if they havent already done so.
The main issue that is outstanding for Mrs R relates to the level of service she received from 
Lloyds. So, this is what Ive focused my decision on.
Id like to start by reassuring Mrs R that I have read all of her communication with both us 
and Lloyds, in order to understand all of the reasons shes unhappy with the service shes 
received from Lloyds. Having done so, I wont comment on each individual point, but have 
considered them all in reaching my decision.
Could Lloyds have prevented Mrs R from falling victim to the second scam?
Mrs R has pointed to the lack of fraud warnings or guidance she was given after falling victim 
to the first scam. She says Lloyds missed an opportunity to protect her from the second 
scam. 
Having listened to the calls, I cant see that Lloyds provided Mrs R with any information 
about protecting herself from future scams or let her know that she may be approached 
again in the near future by scammers. 
The parcel delivery fee scam is well known, and consumers who provide their bank details 
are often targeted by scammers again shortly afterwards. On that basis, I wouldve expected 
Lloyds to have had a discussion with Mrs R about what to look out for. However, Im not 
persuaded that had Lloyds given her information about other scams, that in these 
circumstances, it wouldve prevented Mrs R falling victim to the second scam. 
I say this because I dont think its realistic to expect Lloyds to have given information about 
all of the types of scams that Mrs R could possibly be presented with. And if they did, I think 
its likely that the actual scam scenario she fell victim to may have become lost in the amount 
of information she was given. Also, importantly, the second scam she fell for was very 
sophisticated. The scammers were able to spoof Lloyds genuine phone number on the back 
of her debit card, and Mrs R has told us they spoke in exactly the same manner she had 
experienced previously when talking to genuine Lloyds staff, also using similar language to 
the genuine bank. Mrs R says at no point did she doubt she was talking to the bank. Also, I 
think Mrs R wouldve been more vulnerable to the scam, as she knew she had provided information the previous day to scammers that mayve enabled them to access her money. 
And the scammers used urgency and pressure to make Mrs R feel that she had to act 
quickly in order to protect the money in her accounts.
On this basis, Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude that Lloyds couldve prevented   
Mrs R from falling victim to the second scam by sharing scam warning information with     
Mrs R after the first scam. However, I think they shouldve let Mrs R know that it was 
possible she would be targeted again. 
So, Ive gone on to consider the overall level of service Mrs R received from Lloyds. 
The overall level of service Mrs R received from Lloyds
Its important to note, that a lot of Mrs Rs distress was caused by the scammers which I 
cant fairly hold Lloyds liable for. But I have though considered Lloyds actions and how they 
mayve added to that distress.
Mrs R has told us that she had to call Lloyds several times during her fraud claim, was on 
hold for long periods of time, was transferred from pillar to post, and some calls cut off 
unexpectedly  requiring her to call back and go through the process again. 
Lloyds have given us contact notes from when Mrs R called, along with 14 call recordings. In 
the contact notes they highlight that Mrs R was very distressed on a call with them and in 
several of the calls where Mrs R was transferred between departments, the Lloyds staff told 
the person they were transferring Mrs R to about her distress. 
Lloyds have already apologised to Mrs R for not providing a better level of service and paid 
her £100 compensation. Having listened to the calls, I can understand why it wouldve been 
upsetting for Mrs R to be transferred to various departments, having long waits and having 
calls end abruptly. However, I also found that the Lloyds staff were often patient with Mrs R, 
let her know what was happening if they were silent while writing notes or needed to transfer 
her to another department. They also picked up on her anxiety and distress and shared this 
information internally so she would be treated with empathy by the next staff member. 
Mrs R is also unhappy that Lloyds provided conflicting information about how much she 
would be refunded. Initially Lloyds told her she would get 50% back and then she received 
the other 50% without warning. And I accept that this couldve been handled better by 
Lloyds.
Having considered all of Mrs Rs points regarding the level of service she received from 
Lloyds, the lack of warnings after she fell victim to the first scam and the confusion over what 
she would be refunded -  I think an award of £250 is fair compensation. This £250 would 
include the £100 that Lloyds have already offered Mrs R and is separate to the £18 theyve 
paid her to cover call costs.
Mrs R has told us that she feels a payment of £2,500 is more appropriate based on her 
experience, however were an informal mediation service and the awards we make for 
distress and inconvenience are modest. More information about the type of awards we make 
can be found on our website. I understand that Mrs R had to borrow money from family 
members and says she was unable to take a planned holiday. However, Im not satisfied that 
I can fairly say Lloyds is fully liable for this, as most of the distress and impact has come 
from the scammers and as Ive already set out, Im not persuaded I can safely conclude 
Lloyds couldve prevented Mrs R from falling victim to the second scam.Mrs R is also unhappy with Lloyds internal procedures around several matters including the 
difficulty to get through to their fraud team, and the lack of support and empathy she feels is 
given to victims of fraud. But our remit doesnt include looking at internal processes or 
operational issues, other than in direct relation to the specifics of an individual complaint and 
how it impacted on that complainant. So, while Mrs R may want a more holistic review done 
with recommendations to protect future customers  that isnt something that we can do.
Having carefully considered everything that Mrs R has told us, I think its fair to ask Lloyds to 
pay her £250 compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Pay interest on the fraud payments theyve refunded to Mrs R, from the date the 
payments were made until the date of settlement. At 8% simple interest on the 
payments made from her current account, and at the account interest rate for 
payments made from her savings account.
Pay Mrs R £250 for the poor level of service she received (LLoyds can deduct the 
£100 they had already offered Mrs R if it has already been paid to her).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require them to 
compensate Mrs R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman