DRN-1975051
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Mobile Money Limited irresponsibly provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Miss K was given a logbook loan by Mobile Money in April 2018 for £4,000. The loan was 
secured against a vehicle that she owned.
Miss Ks loan was to be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of around £288. The total amount 
due to be repaid over the loan term, including interest, was just over £8,600. I understand 
the loan is still outstanding.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Mobile Money should 
have provided Miss K with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. Mobile 
Money didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our website and 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ks complaint.
Mobile Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss K 
irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred 
to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. The checks had to be borrower 
focussed  so Mobile Money had to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss K. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Mobile Money to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss K. 
Mobile Money had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
K would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Mobile 
Money had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Mobile Money did what it needed to before 
agreeing to give the loan to Miss K.
Mobile Money says it asked Miss K for information about her income and expenditure and it 
carried out some credit checks. Mobile Money says that Miss Ks credit report showed no 
arrears and there were no signs that she was struggling financially. It doesnt believe that the 
information it gathered at the time should have led it to ask for any further information.
But Miss Ks credit report did show that she had 18 active accounts and had a substantial 
outstanding credit balance, aside from her mortgage. It also showed that Miss K had 
regularly been taking short term loans in the year prior to applying to Mobile Money  all of 
which could reasonably have indicated that this consumer might be having difficulties 
managing her finances. I accept that there were no defaults on her credit report but Miss K 
was applying to Mobile Money for an expensive loan, repayable over a long period. In the circumstances I would expect Mobile Money to have wanted to gather and independently 
check more detailed information about Miss Ks financial situation before agreeing to lend to 
her.  
I appreciate that Mobile Money had acquired a credit report and pay slips from Miss K but it 
seems to me that it relied heavily on information she provided about her expenditure.  The 
rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, it is 
not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. As I explained above, I think Mobile Money ought reasonably have sought a more 
detailed understanding of Miss Ks financial position in order to assess whether shed be 
able to sustainably repay her loan over the extended loan term. 
So as well as asking Miss K about her income and expenditure, I think Mobile Money should 
have carried out more detailed and independent checks into Miss Ks financial 
circumstances  for example by asking to see her bank statements.
Miss K has provided us with copies of her bank statements leading up to her application to 
Mobile Money, so I can determine what better checks might have shown Mobile Money at 
that time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of 
course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Mobile Money had carried 
out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered 
more about Miss Ks financial position. In particular I think it more likely than not Mobile 
Money would have realised that Miss K was regularly gambling considerable amounts of 
money and was most likely financing her gambling by borrowing from a number of other 
short-term lenders. 
Mobile Money says that Miss K was able to transfer funds from another account where 
necessary and that gambling does not render credit inappropriate or unaffordable, 
especially when the consumer is able to continue to meet their non-discretionary 
expenditure. 
But from what Ive seen, that Miss K was transferring money between three different bank 
accounts, and regularly borrowing from other short-term lenders, to support her gambling. 
Mobile Money thinks that Miss K only began to struggle financially when she was called 
upon to make repayments on another loan in 2019 as the loan guarantor. But it seems to me 
that Miss K was already having serious difficulties managing her finances when she applied 
for her loan with Mobile Money. And as Ive already explained, Mobile Money was required 
to establish whether Miss K could sustainably make her loan repayments. I think if Mobile 
Money had carried out more detailed, independent checks on Miss Ks finances it ought 
reasonably to have realised that she was having serious difficulties managing her finances 
and that she was most likely borrowing as a result of her gambling  and would also most 
likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay her loan from Mobile Money. I would have 
expected Mobile Money to realise that it was unlikely that Miss K would be able to 
sustainably repay her loan. So it ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to her.
Putting things right
The statement of account provided by Mobile Money suggests that Miss K has already 
repaid more than the capital she borrowed. I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss K to have 
repaid the principal amount that she borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. 
So I think Miss K has lost out and Mobile Money should put things right for her.
Mobile Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all 
the payments Miss K made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Miss Ks loan account results in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Mobile Money should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*. 
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Mobile 
Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss K, bearing in 
mind its obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Cancel the bill of sale and return the V5 document.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mobile Money to deduct tax from this interest. Mobile 
Money should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint and direct Mobile Money Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman