DRN-3022167
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the National House-Building Councils (NHBC) decision to 
decline a claim made on his behalf by the managing agent, in relation to damage to the 
exterior wall of the block in which he owns a flat.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 July 2021, explaining why I was not 
intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building made up of nine flats (the block). Mr K 
owns a flat within the block. The block forms part of a larger development comprising 
69 properties. Mr K is also representing the other eight leaseholders in the block, 
who have separate, but the same complaints with our service. All the parties are 
aware that what I say here in respect of Mr Ks complaint, also applies to the same 
complaints brought by the other leaseholders. All of the nine leaseholders have 
provided their consent for us to investigate their complaints. 
In 2015, the owners of the flats in the block noticed that cracking had appeared on 
one of the exterior walls. They also observed damage to some of the interior parts of 
block. On 26 February 2015, the managing agent wrote to NHBC to give notice that 
the owners wished to submit a claim in relation to a structural defect and damage 
caused to the property.
A meeting was arranged at the property to discuss the following defects in relation to 
the common parts:
vertical cracking on the external walls around the windows, sills and reveals
left hand gable wall displaced at DPC level with overhang 10mm
NHBC issued an investigation report dated 14 December 2017 which concluded the 
claim had been made beyond the expiry date for the common parts, so was deemed 
to be non-valid and no further action was required for the two items detailed above.
The managing agent challenged NHBCs decision on the basis that the period of 
cover for the apartments only expired in late 2015. As the claim was submitted in 
February 2015, they believed it should be covered.
NHBC didnt agree. They said the leases for the apartments established that all of 
the properties within the development were responsible for the common parts of all of 
the buildings and not just the properties within this specific block. NHBC said that 
based on the earliest completion date of 31 January 2003 and the latest of 
14 October 2005, the common parts expiry date, calculated in accordance with the 
policy terms was 30 January 2014 which was prior to the date the claim was made. 
The managing agent argued, in response, that each block is only responsible for the 
common parts within their own block. They explained that the dwelling houses and 
any other flat blocks dont pay towards the common area of the flat block in question, 
and vice versa. As part of their service charge, all of the properties pay towards grass 
cutting and wider estate repairs such as unadopted roads, footpaths etc. 
In May 2018, the managing agent complained to NHBC about the lack of response 
from NHBC to their emails, and about the decision made by NHBC to decline the 
claim. On 22 June 2018 NHBC issued their final response letter (FRL). NHBC 
accepted that several emails from the managing agent hadnt been responded to at 
all, or within a timely manner. The case handler apologised and said that feedback 
had been provided to the relevant departments. 
However, with regard to the claim decision, the case handler explained that the 
formula for calculating the term of cover for the common parts was provided to the 
managing agent in an email on 11 May 2018. She also set out the calculations in 
some detail, making reference to the terms of the lease and the Buildmark Policy, 
and clarified that by her calculations the cover for the common parts expired on 
29 January 2014 (on the basis that the builders liability period ended on 
30 January 2006). The FRL concluded that the claims team were correct in saying 
that cover for the common parts had expired prior to the claim being reported to 
NHBC on 26 February 2015, so NHBC was unable to consider the claim any further.
Mr K was unhappy with NHBCs response so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator issued her view on 4 December 2020 upholding the complaint. She 
thought that, taking account of what is fair and reasonable, it wasnt fair to say theres 
no cover under the warranty based on NHBCs assertion that the warranty for 
common parts of the building had expired. She was of the view that as every property 
owner in the development had their own individual warranty, and the warranty 
confirmed they were entitled to the amount they were legally liable to contribute 
towards the cost of repairs. She concluded that at the time of the claim being 
registered in February 2015, there were a number of properties in the development 
with valid warranties, and therefore there would be a number of warranty holders 
entitled to their portion of cover under the warranties.
Mr K accepted our investigators view, but NHBC did not. They said they understood 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service will consider what is fair and reasonable, 
however, they didnt agree that this meant the policy terms could be ignored, and in 
particular, the terms in relation to the common parts set out on pages 12 and 20 of 
the Buildmark Policy. NHBC said that the policyholders werent entitled to their 
proportion of common parts cover, because the common parts claim was made after 
the common parts covers expiry date. NHBC also explained that the lease confirms 
that all of the properties on the development share responsibility for the repair and 
maintenance of the common parts; the common parts are not limited to particular 
blocks. 
NHBC requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The first issue Ive considered is whether the common parts, for the purposes of 
calculating the common parts period of cover, are comprised of the entire 
development or the block in which the affected flats are located. Ive focused on the 
provisions of the lease for apartment plot 8, dated 26 August 2005 to shed some light 
on this issue, and have summarised the relevant provisions below:
Paragraph 1.5 defines the Development as the land and buildings and 
works described in the First Schedule.. being known for development 
purposes as R,..edged blue on plan 1, which essentially comprises the 
whole of the development.
Paragraph 1.9 defines the Maintained Property as the parts of the 
Development which are more particularly described in the Second 
Schedule..and the maintenance of which is the responsibility of the 
Management Company. The Second Schedule includes, among other things, 
the structural parts of the Buildings including the load-bearing walls and all 
external parts of the buildings not used solely for the purpose of one flat.
Paragraph 1.10 defines the Maintenance Expenses as the monies actually 
expended or reserved for periodical expenditure by or on behalf of the 
Management Company during the term of the lease, in carrying out the 
obligations specified in the Sixth Schedule of the lease. The obligations set 
out in paragraph one of the sixth schedule include, among other things, 
repairing, rebuilding, pointing or otherwise treating as necessary, and keeping 
the Maintained Property and every part thereof in good and substantial repair 
order and condition and renewing and replacing all worn or damaged parts 
thereof.
The Lessees Proportion detailed in the Particulars at the beginning of the 
lease is described as 0.021% of the proportion of the Maintenance Expenses 
payable by the Lessee in accordance with the provisions of the Seventh 
Schedule.
In summary, the owner of that flat is required, under the terms of the lease, to pay 
0.021% of the costs of maintenance and repair of the parts of the Development that 
the Management Company is responsible for maintaining. I note there is no 
reference here to specific parts of the development, for example, a particular block, 
as suggested by the managing agent. 
The managing agent has confirmed that in practice, each block pays for its own 
upkeep and repair  so on that basis they believe the term of cover for the common 
parts under the Buildmark Policy, should be calculated by reference to the affected 
block only. However, NHBC disagrees and says the lease doesnt suggest the 
policyholders liability is limited to any particular block.
Ive next considered the definition of Common Parts, in the Buildmark Policy, which 
includes:
Any of the following for which you are legally obliged to share responsibility for cost 
and upkeep with the Owners of other Homes:
a) The parts of a building containing a flat or maisonette.
So, to work out what parts of the development are included in the definition of the 
common parts, I need to have regard to the documentation that sets out what the policyholder is legally obliged to share responsibility for. In this case, the legal 
obligations are set out in the lease document Ive referred to above. I understand that 
the managing agent may choose, in practice, to share the costs of maintenance and 
repair for the development differently to that set out in the lease. However, that 
doesnt alter the legal obligations of the policyholder. Taking everything into account, 
Im currently satisfied that NHBC are correct in calculating the common parts period 
of cover, taking account of the first and last completion date, on the development. 
The next issue Ive considered is whether NHBC has correctly calculated the term of 
cover for the common parts, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
The Buildmark Policy gives cover for the first two years (Section 2) during which the 
builder is liable to repair any defect or damage. In the next 8 years (years 3 to 10  
Section 3), NHBC agrees to cover the repairs needed to put right damage caused by 
a defect, subject to the policy terms and conditions being satisfied. Cover for the 
property starts from the date of the insurance certificate, which is usually the date of 
completion of the sale of the property to the first owner.
The Buildmark Policy sets out special provisions for common parts:
Section 2
The cover in Section 2 starts on the date of the earliest Insurance Certificate for a 
Home which shares the relevant Common Parts. It ends 3 years from that date, or 
2 years from the date of the last Insurance Certificate for a Home which shares those 
Common Parts, whichever is the earlier.
Sections 3, 4 and 5
The cover in Sections 3, 4 and 5 starts from the date cover under Section 2 expires. 
It ends 8 years from that date.
Under the policy terms and conditions, the period of cover provided for claims in 
relation to the common parts is worked out via the formula detailed above and set out 
on page 20 of the policy document.
The cover expires eight years after the earlier of the following:
the date of completion of the first property plus three years 
(31 January 2006); or
the date of completion of the last property plus two years (14 October 2007).
So, eight years after the earlier of the above two dates is 30 January 2014. As the 
damage was notified to NHBC in February 2015, at the time of notification, the cover 
for damage to the common parts had expired, as NHBC first explained to the 
managing agent in May 2018. Im therefore currently satisfied that the cover for the 
common parts had expired at the time Mr K made his claim.
What remains for me to decide is whether it is fair and reasonable for NHBC to 
restrict common parts cover in this way and in particular that it was right to apply it to 
these circumstances.
A building warranty essentially covers the building. For the individual property itself, 
in this case, each of the nine apartments in the block, that cover lasts for ten years. 
However, the period of cover for the common parts is calculated in accordance with 
the sections Ive referred to above.
I think its reasonable for NHBC to set a time limit for common parts where different parts of the development (sharing those parts) are completed at different times. This 
would otherwise lead to a situation where common parts cover recommences every 
time a new property is completed within the development. Im therefore currently 
persuaded that, in this case, overall the term in the policy detailing when the cover for 
common parts beings and ends, and the application of it to this case, is fair and 
reasonable.
I concluded that the cover for the common parts expired in January 2014, but Mr Ks claim 
wasnt made until February 2015. I said that as the claim was made 13 months after the 
cover had expired for the common parts, I was of the view that NHBC hadnt acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim.
I asked both parties to let me have any final information or arguments they wanted me to 
consider by 16 August 2021. NHBC said they didnt have any further submissions to make. 
However Mr K made the following comments:
the insurance certificate is misleading as every owner within the blocks would 
assume the policy covers them until the date stated on the certificate, and
it took the Ombudsman months to review the case and to understand the policy, so 
regular owners or purchaser would not be able to understand it. 
Ive taken these additional comments into account in making my final decision on this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K believes the insurance certificate is misleading, as the owners would assume they were 
covered by the policy until the expiry date. Hes also suggested that the time its taken for a 
decision to be issued on this complaint also indicates that regular owners wouldnt be able to 
understand the policy terms and conditions.
While I accept that understanding the period of cover for the common parts isnt as simple as 
referring to an expiry date, because several calculations need to be carried out, I dont agree 
the insurance certificate is mis-leading. As Ive explained in the provisional decision, the 
policy documents do set out the formula for calculating the period of cover for the common 
parts. And when NHBC was asked, in 2018, to provide an explanation of how the expiry date 
had been arrived at, the claims handler did so. Such a request for clarification could have 
been made at any time during the term of cover. 
I also dont agree that the time its taken for a decision to be issued on this complaint means 
the policy terms are difficult to understand. There are a number of factors that affect the time 
it takes for a complaint to reach the final stage of our process. 
After carefully considering Mr Ks representatives additional comments, I havent been 
persuaded to change my decision. So, for the reasons set out in this decision, and my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman