DRN-1822595
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc, mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The PPI was sold to 
Mrs H when she phoned Capital One to activate her card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mrs Hs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale. But that isnt particularly surprising 
given how long ago it took place. Businesses arent required to keep this type of record over 
this period of time. However, from what we know more generally about how PPI sales were 
made by Capital One on such calls, I think its more likely than not that it made it clear to 
Mrs H that the PPI was optional and that she agreed to take it. And I havent seen enough 
evidence for me to think that, on this particular occasion, the telephone representative Mrs H 
spoke to didnt follow this normal sales process. The PPI charges would also have been 
separately shown on Mrs Hs credit card statements.
So, on the limited information available to me, I think its most likely that Mrs H would have 
known at the time that she had a choice about buying the policy and actively decided to do 
so. But the sale happened a long time ago, so I can understand why she may not recall this 
now.
I dont think Capital One recommended the policy to Mr H, so it didnt need to make sure that 
it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give Mrs H enough information for her to decide 
if she wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information Capital One gave Mrs H 
could have been better than it was. But from what I know about her circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have changed her mind about taking it. I say this 
because:
 
Mrs H appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. 
Mrs H says she would have received sick pay at the time of the sale. But this policy 
would have paid in addition to this and for up to twelve months if she wasnt able to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. This is much longer than 
her sick pay would have lasted. So I still think Mrs H would have thought the extra 
security the policy gave her was worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mrs H. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs. 
 
So I dont think Mrs H has lost out by anything Capital One may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought about the reasons Mrs H has given for not agreeing with the adjudicators view. 
But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman