DRN-3948337
The complaint
Mr Q complains about an entry relating to a credit card recorded on his credit file by Lowell 
Financial Ltd. 
What happened
In March 2022 Lowell purchased a credit card account and outstanding balance in Mr Qs 
name from a business Ill call C. When Lowell purchased the account C advised the credit 
card had defaulted in January 2021. 
In June 2022 Mr Q agreed monthly repayments of £20 with Lowell. In the months that 
followed Mr Q contacted Lowell on several occasions and raised concerns over the default 
information recorded on his credit file. Mr Qs explained that Lowells entry refers to a 
defaulted credit card. But Mr Qs explained Lowell didnt issue a credit card in his name and 
doesnt feel the information recorded is accurate. 
Mr Q complained and Lowell issued a final response. Lowell didnt agree the information it 
was reporting on Mr Qs credit file was wrong. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Qs complaint. They thought Lowell had dealt 
with Mr Qs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr Q asked to appeal and 
said the information on his credit file made it appear as if Lowell had issued the original 
credit card which was wrong. As Mr Q asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Qs told us the way Lowell records information on his credit file makes it appear as if it 
issued the credit card. Mr Qs pointed out C was the original lender and Lowell purchased 
the debt after it was already closed and in default. So Lowell didnt issue a credit card to 
Mr Q. Ive looked at the entry recorded by Lowell on Mr Qs credit file to see whether its 
accurate. 
The entry shows Lowell has a credit card debt in Mr Qs name. I appreciate Mr Qs credit 
card was opened with C. But a debt that came about by way of a credit card Mr Q held with 
C was sold to Lowell in March 2022. Lowell then took on responsibility for reporting the 
account on Mr Qs credit file. I note Mr Qs view, but Im satisfied the entry correctly records 
that Lowell holds a credit card debt in his name. I havent been persuaded that the 
information Lowells recorded on Mr Qs credit file is wrong or misleading.
Lowells pointed out that the regulations it operates under allows it to purchase debts and go 
on to report them on a customers credit file. Whilst I understand the original credit card was 
approved by C and the debt came about during Mr Qs relationship with that lender, Im 
satisfied Lowells acting in line with the rules and can record the account on his credit file. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr Q but as I havent been persuaded Lowells reporting 
incorrect information on his credit file Im not telling it to make any amendments or do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman