DRN-1465551
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) relates to a telephone call 
he had with them on the 26 April 2019 regarding a cheque which had been cancelled, and 
the subsequent manner in which call handlers spoke to him. He further complains that no 
reasonable adjustments were made for him.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr K and Nationwide, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In April 2019 Mr K had cause to contact Nationwide about a compensation cheque hed 
received from them. Whilst discussing the issue with the call handler and her manager, Mr K 
felt as though he was being accused of fraud, and because of his medical conditions of 
Aspergers syndrome and Dyslexia, he thought adjustments ought to have been put in place 
for communicating with him. He was also unhappy with the length of time he was on the call.
Nationwide did not consider that they had made any errors, arguing that whilst the call was 
reasonably lengthy it was proportionate considering the issues they needed to look into. 
Further, that although the issue of fraud had been raised, this was not intended to have been 
directed at Mr K, and was a comment about referring the matter to their own fraud team to 
investigate, if it could not be ascertained who had sent Mr K the cheque.
Mr K was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, concluded that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt 
with the complaint fairly. Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked 
at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I think is right for each 
case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that Nationwide has done 
anything wrong and Ill explain why.I am sorry to learn that Mr K felt that Nationwide were suggesting that he might have in some 
way been fraudulent. I do not however consider that the call recordings support such a view, 
rather they reveal that following discussion about the cheque a comment was made that if, 
after investigation, Nationwide were unable to determine why the cheque had been sent to 
Mr K or who had sent it, then their own Fraud team might need to become involved. I think 
that is a reasonable comment because that team would have greater expertise in 
investigating where the cheque had originated and whether it was legitimate. There is 
nothing to suggest from the call that Nationwide believed Mr K was being fraudulent, rather 
the position was that if faced with being unable to identify the cheque that the appropriate 
team would need to investigate. Further, when Mr K said he thought he was being called a 
liar and was upset at the use of the word fraud, the call handler did clarify that she was not 
saying she suspected Mr K of being fraudulent. So I think at that point any doubts Mr K had 
ought to have been put to rest
As to the length of the call I do not regard this as unreasonable. The call handler and her 
manager were faced with an unusual set of circumstances, and they required time to 
investigate and make other calls to third parties. Mr K was given the option of having the call 
returned after they had made some enquiries, but he declined that offer. I dont think in these 
circumstances that there is any cause for complaint over the length of the call.
As to the issue of reasonable adjustments being made for Mr K, it is clear that Nationwide 
had historically been made aware of Mr Ks impairments, but equally the letter Mr K 
produces from 2004 does not show that he asked them to record he required reasonable 
adjustments when communicating with him. 
The evidence from a previous complaint to this service also does not record that such 
reasonable adjustments were requested. The only other piece of evidence I have seen is 
from a note in 2014 which records that Mr K had told a call handler that Nationwide should 
not single out individuals flagging they are disabled or vulnerable. So, I think from that point 
in time, irrespective of what was said or done previously, it is clear that Mr K did not give 
consent for his account to be marked that he had a disability or was vulnerable. That being 
so I do not consider that Nationwide have acted unfairly in the way they communicated with 
Mr K since their system records available to the call handlers would not show that such 
adjustments were required, none having been requested. 
So, although Mr K will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Nationwide has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman