DRN-2290727
The complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents. 
What happened
On 23 December 2019 Mr S took out pet insurance for his dog on line through an insurance 
comparison website. The insurer was Red Sands. The policy gave lifetime cover subject to 
the policy terms and limits so long as the policy was in force.  
In July 2020 Mr S took his dog to the vet while on holiday as his dog hadnt been able to 
pass urine all day then had stranguria (small, frequent and painful urinations). The dog was 
sedated, had an ultra sound and tests and cystine crystals were found in his urine. On return  
from holiday Mr S dog was seen by his usual vet and further tests were recommended. Mr S 
claimed the holiday vet costs of about £760 and his usual vets initial costs of about £60. 
Red Sands declined the claims for two reasons:
the vet records from Mr S usual vet practice showed his dog had been seen in 
November 2019 for bleeding from his penis, the vet suspected a urinary tract 
problem and found the opening of the urethra inflamed. Red Sands said that meant 
Mr S dog had the condition, or clinical signs of the condition, claimed for before the 
policy started. The policy excluded cover for pre-existing conditions, and
the policy schedule sent to Mr S after he bought the policy asked if hed ever taken 
his dog to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. Red Sands said Mr S 
should have told it about the November 2019 vet treatment and if it had known it 
would have added a specific policy exclusion for claims for the urinary system from 
the start of the policy. Red Sands added that exclusion to apply from the start and 
said the claim also fell within that exclusion.
Mr S complained to us. He didnt think Red Sands decision was fair as his vet had written to 
Red Sands to say some of the vet notes were incorrect and that the condition claimed for 
hadnt existed before the policy started. Mr S also said his dog has had further complications 
and hed had to pay further vet costs as Red Sands had rejected the initial claims so he was 
very worried about finding the money to pay the vet. 
Our investigator thought Red Sands unfairly declined the claims and it should reassess the 
claims. He also recommended Red Sands pay Mr S £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Red Sands disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said in November 2019 the  
dog was prescribed medication targeting urinary conditions and urinary tract infections, so 
while no definitive diagnosis was made then the vet was treating the symptoms of a 
condition relating to the urinary tract which made the claims condition pre-existing. 
Mr S responded that hed given the medication for the first two days but the condition 
became worse so he stopped giving the tablets, went back to the vet and was given the 
buster collar which solved the problem of his dog licking the cut. He also said the bleeding in 
November 2019 was entirely blood, whereas in 2020 the issue was blood in the urine.
Before I made my decision I told Red Sands that rather than saying it should reassess the 
claim I was considering requiring it to pay the claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions and limits, plus interest on vet costs Mr S had already paid. I asked if it had any 
comments. Red Sands said it shouldnt pay the claim for the reasons it had given.
I also told Mr S that I would only be making a decision on the claims he made up to when he 
brought his complaint to us so if there was disagreement about any further claims he made 
he would need to make a separate complaint. Mr S told us his dog was no longer insured 
with Red Sands.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claims on the basis 
of the two exclusions it relied on and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Could Red Sands fairly rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion?
The policy doesnt cover:
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date.
Mr S dog was seen by two different vets as his usual practice in November 2019. The vet 
notes of 18 November say Mr S dog was bleeding from his penis. The notes also say the 
dog had urethral prolapse for the last two years, which the second vet later confirmed was 
an error in the notes. Red Sands accepted the error.
The first vet gave an assessment of urethritis, urolithiasis, cancer, other and prescribed 
medication that helps with urinary conditions. However no tests were done to confirm what 
the problem was and the notes say the plan was to recheck in a week.
2 days later the vet notes show Mr S asked for an emergency appointment as the bleeding 
was much worse. Ive seen the photos Mr S sent which show how much his dog was 
bleeding.
Mr S told us he was unhappy with how the first vet had dealt with the problem and the vet 
notes of 20 November say Mr S didnt want to see same vet as last time. The second vets  
notes say the dogs urination is normal, without blood, the opening of the urethra was 
inflamed and the bleeding can be from the tip of the urethra when (the dog) licks it. It was 
agreed Mr S would monitor the problem for a week before starting investigations and that vet 
advised Mr S to use a buster collar for his dog and the medication.  
On 26 November Mr S dog saw the second vet for a follow up. The vet notes say that since 
Mr S put on the buster collar the dog had only two drops of watery blood for the next couple 
of days. The urethra opening was slightly inflamed but no sign of infection could be seen. 
Red Sands say that although there was no clear diagnosis in November 2019 the dog had blood in his urine then and the dogs urinary leakage and urinary crystals in July 2020 were 
linked to problem he had in November 2019, before the policy started.
But Ive seen no evidence from Mr S vets that the dog did have blood in his urine in 
November 2019. And when the vet practice wrote to Red Sands to say the noting of the  
prolapse was an error it also said: 
When the dog was bought into us on 18/11 it was discovered after 2 more visits that 
he had a slight laceration on the tip of his penis which had healed after (the dog) 
wore a buster collar and was administered with anti-inflammatories, so therefore we 
do not believe ( the dog) had a pre-existing condition related to his current condition 
which the owners are now claiming for.
In addition the second vet who examined the dog in November 2019 wrote to Red Sands 
that: 
In my professional opinion, the bleeding (the dog) had from the head of the penis on 
the 20/11/2019, was not associated with urinary crystals. (The dog) did not had [sic] 
any problems with his urination and the bleeding stopped once the owner placed a 
buster collar to prevent (the dog) from licking the head of the penis.
So the opinion of the dogs vet practice is that in November 2019 the bleeding was due to a 
laceration on the tip of the penis, there was no problem with urination and the buster collar 
enabled the laceration to heal. Even if the prescribed medication was for urinary conditions 
and urinary tract infections, the treating vets opinion is that it was the effect of the buster 
collar that stopped the bleeding. And importantly the vet concludes there was no link 
between the November 2019 condition and the July 2020 condition that Mr S claimed for.
I find the evidence of the main treating vet, who saw the dog on more than one occasion, to 
be persuasive. I dont think Red Sands reasonably concluded that the claim Mr S made in 
the summer of 2020 related to a pre-existing condition. It cant rely on the pre-existing 
condition exclusion to decline the claim.
Did Red Sands fairly add and rely on the specific exclusion for claims for the urinary system 
to decline the claim?
Red Sands says if Mr S had told it about his dogs November 2019 vet visits it would added 
a specific policy exclusion for claims for the urinary system from the start of the policy.
In line with the relevant legislation about non-disclosure, I generally say an insurer can fairly 
add an exclusion to the policy retrospectively if:
the policyholder didnt take reasonable care in answering clear questions asked  
when they bought the policy, and
if the insurer had known the correct information it would have added the exclusion.
Red Sands hasnt said that when Mr S bought the policy he was asked a clear relevant 
question that would have enabled him to tell it his dog had visited a vet and had treatment. 
Instead it says during the policy application Mr S was asked to read and tick a box to confirm 
hed read the assumptions and policy terms. 
Red Sands hasnt provided me with the assumptions given to Mr S as evidence to support 
what it says. So I think its reasonable for me to understand that the assumptions were 
worded the same as in Red Sands usual application process. In the usual process one of the assumptions says a consumer accepts that Red Sands reserves the right to apply 
exclusions to his policy in respect of any illnesses, symptoms or conditions it finds out 
existed before they took out the policy.
The assumption isnt a clear question that enabled Mr S to disclose and Red Sands cant 
fairly and reasonably rely on the assumption to add and apply the retrospective exclusion.
Red Sands did send Mr S a policy schedule after he bought the policy. The schedule has 
some declaration questions one being Have you ever taken (the dog) to the vet for 
anything other than routine vaccinations? The schedule says if the answer to the question is 
yes Mr S needs to call Red Sands and it may not accept cover.
Mr S didnt contact Red Sands to tell it about his dogs treatment in November 2019. But 
I think its unfair for Red Sands to place such a question within the policy schedule which 
Mr S was sent only after the policy was in place. 
For Red Sands to be able to potentially fairly decline on Mr S not telling it about the vet visit 
I think it needed to ask that question when he was applying for the policy, and Ive no 
evidence it did. By doing so, if Red Sands wanted to add a specific exclusion on the 
information Mr S gave at application, he could decide if he wanted to have the policy 
knowing about the exclusion. 
Even if Red Sands had known about the dogs problem in November 2019 I dont think it  
could fairly add the specific exclusion. The overall vet evidence is that the problem he had 
then was laceration on the tip of his penis. From Red Sands underwriting  guidance a cut or 
laceration on a pets body would result in an exclusion for all claims with respect to anything 
to do with the cut on the location that occurred on date and resulting conditions with effect 
from date. So I dont think Red Sands could fairly add and rely on an exclusion for any 
claim for the urinary system 
As Red Sands cant fairly rely on either of the two exclusions it used to decline the claims it 
must pay Mr S claims subject to the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest as Ive 
detailed below.
Ive already explained to Mr S that my decision is only about the claims he made before he  
complained to us. I havent seen any information or vet evidence about any subsequent  
treatment Mr S dog had. So Mr S will need to submit any further claims he wants to make 
for the later treatment for Red Sands to assess. Hes now told us he no longer has insurance 
with Red Sands and it would only need to assess claims for treatment that occurred while 
the dog was insured with it.
Compensation
Our investigator recommended that Red Sands pay £200 for Mr S distress and 
inconvenience as hes been very stressed by having to find money to pay for his dogs  
treatment which hes struggled to do. Red Sands hasnt commented on the amount and 
I think £200 compensation is a reasonable amount given Mr S circumstances
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claims subject to the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest 
if Mr S has already paid the vet as Ive detailed below. It must also pay Mr S £200 for his 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay:
the claims Mr S made before he complained to us subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits. If Mr S has already paid those costs to the vet then Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must add interest* at 8% simple a year from 
the date/s Mr S paid until date of settlement, and 
£200 for Mr S distress and inconvenience.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman