DRN-3403935
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined a claim under a 
commercial property insurance policy.
Any references to SOL include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mrs G contacted SOL following an escape of water at a rental property she owned. SOL 
assessed the claim and declined it because it said the damage was the result of wet rot and 
dry rot, which was a gradually operating cause.
When Mrs G complained, SOL maintained the decision to decline the claim. Although it was 
accepted that there had been an escape of water, the damage couldnt be attributed to a 
one-off incident. The damage was the result of a widespread and significant outbreak of both 
wet rot and dry rot.
So, Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
although the exclusion was clear in the policy, she didnt think it was fair to apply it in this 
case. The loss adjusters thought the leak had been ongoing for over six months, but there 
wasnt evidence to show Mrs G would have been aware of the leak or the rot. She said SOL 
should deal with the claim without applying the exclusions for wear and tear, gradual 
damage or rot.
As SOL didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
SOL accepted there was an escape of water. However, it said the damage itself was the 
result of wet and dry rot, which was a gradually operating cause. Mrs G has said the water 
leak was much more recent than SOL suggested and that she had taken action as soon as 
she became aware there was an issue both to stop the leak and the deal with the rot.
Ive looked at the damage that was found. Mrs G provided surveys/ quotes from some 
companies that inspected the damage. One of the reports found an attack by dry rot and wet 
rot affecting joists, wallplate, flooring, wall linings, window frames, timber linings etc. All of 
these issues seem to have been visible to the surveyor by looking at accessible areas and 
without moving fitted floor coverings or furniture. I note that Mrs Gs surveyor didnt give a 
time frame in which he thought the damage had happened, but said dry rot was a dangerous 
fungus that grows swiftly.
SOLs surveyor also found widespread signs of both wet rot and dry rot and said the leak 
and resulting damage was ongoing for some time. SOL concluded that the damage had 
been ongoing for at least six months and possibly up to or exceeding 12 months because of 
the extent of the rot, that both wet and dry rot were present and the amount of work needed 
to deal with it. Based on what Ive seen, I think the rot was visible and extensive and it was 
reasonable for SOL to decide it had been gradually occurring for some time before the claim 
was made.
Mrs G disagrees that the leak itself was ongoing for some time and thinks SOL has 
misunderstood a discussion between her and the owner of the property above and taken it 
as evidence that she knew there was a water leak much earlier. Mrs G said the discussion 
with the neighbour a few months before she made the claim was about a cracked tile. She 
spoke to him about it because he also managed the property for her and the tile needed to 
be replaced. She said there was no indication of an escape of water at that time.
Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Gs explanation for why she spoke to the owner of the flat above 
and that this was because he managed the property. So, his role was to deal with a range of 
issues at the property, including cracked tiles. However, Im not currently persuaded that this 
affects SOLs overall assessment that due to the extent of both wet and dry rot and the level 
of works required to deal with it, it would have been ongoing for some time and visible to Mrs 
G.
I should also note that even if I accepted the events took place based on the timeline Mrs G 
has provided, I still wouldnt be of the view that SOL should deal with the claim. This is 
because, from what Ive seen, there wouldnt have been an insured event. It was a rental 
property and, looking at the policy schedule, at the time Mrs G thinks the escape of water 
happened there was no cover in place for that peril. It is common for insurers to remove 
cover for an escape of water when a property is unoccupied, which is what seems to have 
happened here. So, this meant an escape of water wasnt an insured event. It also wouldnt 
be covered as accidental damage because rot is gradually operating, so wouldnt fall within 
the definition, and this cover had also been removed under the policy. So, from what Ive 
seen, there was no relevant cover in place at that time for Mrs G to claim under anyway.
Given the findings of both SOL and Mrs Gs surveyors, I currently think it was reasonable for 
SOL to decline the claim on the basis of the damage being the result of a gradually operating 
cause and that it doesnt need to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 31 March 2022
SOL didnt have any further comments.
Mrs G provided a range of comments, which Ive summarised below:
My decision lacked specificity and relied on a misunderstanding of the factual position.
My decision didnt specify why I said I thought the rot was visible and extensive.
She wasnt aware of where SOLs timescale of it concluding the damage had been 
ongoing for at least six months and possibly up to or exceeding 12 months had 
originated.
That I had contradicted myself by saying I had no reason to doubt why Mrs G had 
spoken to the owner of the flat above, but had then gone on to doubt her version of 
events.
I hadnt explained when Mrs G thought the escape of water had happened, why I thought 
there was no cover in place at that time or when I thought the escape of water occurred.
Mrs G highlighted parts of the timeline and provided some new evidence from a 
company about rot growth.
If Mrs G should have done more, I should specify what in my final decision.
Mrs G provided a correction to a report she had previously provided, which had 
described the wet and dry rot inspection. She said the company had now clarified that it had knocked a hole in one of the plasterboard walls to allow for the inspection to take 
place.
SOL hadnt provided its surveyors reports to Mrs G.
I hadnt referred to anything that disputed Mrs Gs surveyors point that rot grows 
swiftly.
Mrs G had been provided with a revised insurance schedule when the property became 
unoccupied, but this didnt state that an escape of water was excluded during the 
relevant period.
Mrs G also had relatives regularly to stay overnight during that period meaning the 
property might not have been unoccupied.
Mrs G provided photos taken recently, which she said showed the rot was contained 
within areas that werent visible prior to the exposure work.
Mrs G said there was significant evidence to show the insurer couldnt substantiate its 
position.
This also happened during a Covid-19 lockdown and the restrictions and her personal 
circumstances prevented visits to the property or letting to new tenants,
Mrs G also highlighted this services position on gradual damage.
Significant delays had also potentially increased the damage suffered at the risk 
address.
Mrs G also provided some documents. Following this, Mrs G provided a further report from 
the company that had carried out the earlier survey, which said it superseded the previous 
report and described any infestation referred to in the report as being the result of Common 
Furniture Beetle unless otherwise stated and only referred to the presence of dry rot. It no 
longer made reference to wet rot being found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered all of the additional comments and 
evidence provided by Mrs G, but this hasnt caused me to change my decision. I will explain 
further why and have focussed my comments on those issues I think are key to me making a 
fair and reasonable decision.
The first report from the company that inspected the rot for Mrs G explained there was wet 
rot and dry rot present. When Mrs G first replied to my provisional decision that company 
again confirmed the presence of wet rot and dry rot. A few days later, Mrs G submitted a 
new report from the same company that it said superseded its previous report and 
mentioned beetles and only referred to dry rot, with no reference to the presence of wet rot.
Mrs G has also said the report didnt correctly explain how the inspection was carried out 
and that a hole had been knocked into a wall and the report had been updated to explain 
this. I read all of the documents from that company and couldnt find any reference to the rot 
being found through a hole in the wall. In both the original report and the most recent report, 
the company said its inspection was of accessible areas and that it couldnt comment on 
concealed timbers or items hidden by wall linings.
Although Im aware the company has said its latest report superseded its earlier one, Im not 
persuaded I should simply ignore that earlier report. Mrs G provided it to show the inspection 
that had been carried out and what had been found. I think the companys position has been 
changeable and that it makes it difficult to take a strong steer from its revised position.Looking at the evidence, I remain of the view that the rot was visible and extensive. 
According to Mrs Gs inspection report, the inspection was carried out in accessible areas 
with the rot affecting joists, wallplate, flooring, wall linings, window frames, timber linings 
etc. Im aware that the company that carried out the inspection has said rot can grow swiftly 
and that it isnt possible to put a timeframe on growth. However, given the extent of the rot 
and that it was identified as both wet rot and dry rot, I think this indicates the rot was likely to 
have been present for some time. 
For clarity, based on the timeline provided by Mrs G, my understanding was that she first 
identified an issue with the kitchen ceiling in June 2020. Inspections then took place and the 
company referred to above confirmed the presence of rot. In response to my provisional 
decision, Mrs G also queried why I thought there was no cover for an escape of water. I read 
the policy schedule along with the policy booklet and my reading of this was that the cover 
wasnt in place. However, the issue of whether there was cover for an escape of water at 
that time wasnt the basis for my decision and isnt why I reached the conclusion I did about 
whether SOL should deal with the claim.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I remain of the view that it was reasonable for SOL to 
decline the claim. This doesnt prevent Mrs G from re-presenting the claim to SOL if she 
thinks she has reason to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
claim is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman