DRN-3052486
The complaint
Mr & Mrs H are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) arent reporting
information about their bank account to the credit reference agencies.  
What happened
Mr H applied for a personal loan with NatWest, but his application was declined. Following
this, Mr & Mrs H reviewed their credit files and noticed that their joint NatWest current
account wasnt being reported by NatWest to their credit files. Mr and Mrs H werent happy
about this and felt that the absence of their current account on Mr Hs credit file had 
adverselyaffected Mr Hs loan application with NatWest. So, they raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr & Mrs Hs complaint. They explained that they dont make credit file
reports for accounts that were opened before July 2000  such as this account had been 
but advised that they would commence making reports for Mr & Mrs Hs current account
within the next six weeks.
Mr & Mrs H werent satisfied with NatWests response, so they referred their complaint to
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that NatWest
had acted unfairly or unreasonably by applying their policy to not make credit file reports for
accounts opened before July 2000, but they did note that at the time of completing their
review that NatWest still hadnt begun making reports to the credit reference agencies
regarding this account as theyd promised they would. Because of this, our investigator
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr & Mrs Hs favour, and that NatWest
should make a payment to Mr & Mrs H of £150 to compensate them for any inconvenience
incurred.
NatWest responded to our investigators recommendation and advised that they had been
unable to find a way to make credit file reports for this account as they had first thought
would be possible, and they suggested that Mr & Mrs H close the account and open a new
account - which would then be reported to the credit reference agencies. NatWest also
offered to make a slightly higher payment of £175 to Mr & Mrs H for their ongoing trouble.
Mr & Mrs H didnt accept the offer put forward by NatWest, so the matter was escalated to
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 August 2021 as follows:
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr & Mrs H to discover that, 
because of the age of their NatWest current account, it wasnt being reported by 
NatWest to the credit reference agencies and therefore wasnt showing on their credit 
files.
NatWest have explained that they only make reports to credit reference agencies as
standard for accounts that were opened after July 2000. This is a policy that NatWest 
are within their rights to implement, so Im satisfied that NatWest havent acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by not making historical reports to the credit reference 
agencies regarding Mr & Mrs Hs current account, given that the account was opened 
several years prior to 2000.
In their response to Mr & Mrs Hs complaint, NatWest stated that they would be 
unable to make backdated historical reports to the credit reference agencies 
regarding their current account, but that they would commence making reports to the 
credit agencies regarding the account in the near future. However, it later transpired 
that NatWest were unable to make any form of report to the credit reference 
agencies in relation to Mr & Mrs Hs current account, and suggested that if Mr & Mrs 
H wanted to have a current account that was reported to the credit reference 
agencies that they would need to close their present current account and open a new 
account  which by default would then be reported.
NatWests explanation here seems reasonable to me, and Im aware of the 
technology limitations that can be inherent with regard to older accounts and which 
appear to be evident in this instance. Because of this, I dont feel that its 
unreasonable for NatWest to have proposed this solution.
However, it must be noted here that given that a current account isnt a form of credit, 
the impact of a current account on a credit file can be minimal. As such, before Mr & 
Mrs H embark on closing their present current account and opening a new one  
which, depending on how many direct debits, etc, are set up on their present current 
account, might be a significant endeavour  Id encourage them to liaise with 
NatWest to determine what actual effect that having their current account reported to 
their credit file might make - and to make a decision on how to proceed from that 
point.
NatWest have acknowledged that Mr & Mrs H have been inconvenienced by the 
delay which arose from them being told incorrectly that credit file reports could be 
commenced for their present current account, and theyve offered a payment of £175 
to Mr & Mrs H as compensation for the detriment incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as fair and 
reasonable by one party not considered as being such by another. But, while Im 
aware that Mr & Mrs H might disagree with me, the £175 offered by NatWest here 
does feel fair to me, and I can confirm its commensurate with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances.
And, while Ive taken into account Mr & Mrs Hs trouble and upset when dealing with 
this matter, Ive also taken into account that the outcome here  the commencing of 
reports regarding Mr & Mrs Hs current account to their credit files  will potentially 
have very little impact on the credit scores obtained from those credit files, as 
previously mentioned.
Finally, Im aware that Mr & Mrs H would like this service to instruct NatWest to offer 
them a loan on more beneficial terms given that their current account wasnt present 
on Mr Hs credit file when he first applied for the loan. I would only consider such an 
instruction if it could be demonstrated that Mr Hs loan application had been declined 
solely because the current account wasnt reported to his credit file. But I dont feel 
that this has been demonstrated, and, given what Ive explained previously about the potential impact of the current account on Mr Hs credit file, I also dont feel that it can 
be reasonably hypothesised.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr & Mrs H wanted here, but it 
follows that I feel that the offer of £175 compensation made by NatWest and the 
recommendation that Mr & Mrs H open a new current account if they want their 
current account to be reported to the credit reference agencies does represent a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And it further follows that I will be 
provisionally upholding this complaint against NatWest on that basis only.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr and Mrs H and NatWest the opportunity to 
provide any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to a final decision.
Mr and Mrs H responded to this opportunity by reiterating their position, including that they 
felt that the £175 offer of compensation didnt adequately reflect the trouble that this matter 
had caused them.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs feelings here, but I must confirm that ultimately, NatWest 
are under no requirement to make reports to the credit reference agencies regarding 
accounts opened before such reporting requirements came into force  as is the case with 
Mr and Mrs Hs account in question. This means that I cant say that NatWest have done 
anything wrong or unfair by not making the reports to the credit reference agencies as Mr 
and Mrs H would have liked, and because of this I can confirm that Im not upholding this 
aspect of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
However, NatWest did initially inform Mr and Mrs H that reports could be sent to the credit 
reference agencies moving forwards, and it was only after some time that NatWest corrected 
their position to confirm that this couldnt in fact be done. And it is for this reason only  the 
provision of incorrect information to Mr and Mrs H and the delay in correcting that 
information  that I am upholding this complaint against NatWest and instructing the 
payment of compensation to Mr and Mrs H for the inconvenience this matter has caused.
This means that the compensation amount being instructed here is being done so solely on 
the basis of NatWest providing Mr and Mrs H with incorrect information, and not in any way 
on the basis that NatWest didnt make reports to the credit reference agencies, which as Ive 
previously explained Im satisfied it wasnt wrong or unfair for NatWest not to do.
And, while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H might not agree with the £175 compensation 
referenced in my provisional decision, I continue to feel that this amount does represent a 
fair and reasonable resolution to the limited aspect of Mr and Mrs H complaint which I am 
upholding, and as such it will be my final decision to uphold this complaint in Mr and Mrs Hs 
favour on that basis.
 
Putting things right
NatWest must make a payment to Mr and Mrs H of £175.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc on 
the basis explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman