DRN-2908046
The complaint
S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc migrated their account to a new system which
deleted the beneficiaries set up on their account.  
What happened
S is a voluntary unincorporated association who hold an account with Co-op. S contacted
Co-op as they needed a new token to access online banking. Co-op told S that they would
need to be moved over to the new online banking system. S was told they needed to contact
Co-op when they received the new token which S did.
S was successful in logging into the online banking, but when they were they noticed that the
beneficiary list was missing. S raised this with the call handler who informed S that they
would need to set up the beneficiaries again as he was moved to the new system.
S asked for a complaint to be raised about this as it would inconvenience them to set up all
of the beneficiaries that they previously had on their internet banking. Co-op said they sent a
Summary Resolution Communication the following day but S didnt agree that the complaint
was resolved so they brought their complaint to our service. S said they wanted 
compensation for the inconvenience and reputational damage caused. Our investigator had
been able to get a list of the previous beneficiaries which were set up on their account but S
said that they had already started contacting the beneficiaries again to get their details to set
up future payments and S didnt believe the list provided showed all of the previous
beneficiaries.
Our investigator did not uphold Ss complaint. He explained that Co-op told him that the
beneficiary details werent migrated across with the account due to the length of time that
had passed since those details were used  as well as the account itself  to protect their
customers. In effect the internet banking had been inactive as it hadnt been used for over
six months. He also said that to award compensation, he would need to see that Co-op had
made an error but in this case he didnt think they had. Our investigator said that he doesnt
believe there would be much  if any  reputational damage as the details werent lost or
sent to another party in error, they were removed by the bank to protect them as a customer.
S asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. They said Co-op shouldve
informed them they were moving systems and this was an error which had inconvenienced
them as a small business.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and listened to everything
theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill
be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened in great detail to the conversation where S was informed that their account
would be moved onto the new system. In this call, the treasurer, on behalf of S asks what
difference will that make to me in practical terms to which the call handler replies no
difference at all, essentially it just looks different, and the treasurer says oh okay, thats
fine. Im persuaded that S was told incorrect information here and Ill explain why.
S wanted to ensure their online banking was set up so that they could pay beneficiaries
online. So to say that there would be no difference to moving his account on to the new
system apart from how the system looks was not accurate in the way S asked the question.
Ive considered the impact of what this information will have had on S. By the way the call
handler responded to the question Im persuaded that S would be under the impression that
the system changes were purely visual and no more, especially as S asked about the
system change in practical terms for them.
Ive also considered what S has said about how Co-op should have let them know if Co-op
were changing systems. But I dont think its reasonable for a business to inform customers
whenever theres a system change as the majority of time it wouldnt affect a customer. Co-
op said that they took a business decision when moving accounts which were inactive for
internet banking to not transfer over beneficiaries as a security precaution and the manual
team who transferred the account did not have access to extract beneficiary lists. So the
new system wasnt the reason why the beneficiaries werent transferred over, albeit it may
be the catalyst for what ended up occurring. The reason that the beneficiaries werent
transferred over was because of a business decision made by Co-op on inactive accounts.
Its not the role of this service to say how a business should run their processes, however,
Ive looked to see if Co-op have followed their own process in transferring Ss account to a
new system and Im satisfied that they have based on what Co-op have told me. But, I do
need to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. In
doing so, there will be times that a strict application of any process, will result in an unfair
outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of a dispute.
In my view thats whats happened here. I say this as Co-op has said one of the reasons
they didnt transfer the beneficiaries is because there could be a security risk in S sending
money to beneficiaries when they havent used internet banking for so long. But, as S would
need to double check the beneficiaries details before submitting a payment, Im persuaded
that the risk of a payment going to an incorrect party would be mitigated by S having to
double check the details before submitting a payment.
When S had spoken to the call handler when they were activating the online banking, the
call handler told S that S needed to set up the beneficiaries again. If Co-op had provided the
beneficiary list to S at this stage it may have resolved the complaint. While S would still need
to input the details into the system it would save them from contacting the beneficiaries to
ask for their details, which S needed to do to set them up on the system again. This will have
inconvenienced S.
S has said they have suffered reputational damage but I havent seen any evidence of this.
While Im persuaded that S has been inconvenienced by starting to contact the beneficiaries
who were set up on their account again, ask for their details and input them into the new
system, S has provided no evidence that the company suffered any impact of reputational
damage. I know the treasurer has said that he always tries to have impeccable financial
control and that this was a significant issue for him. But, I can only look at the impact of the
individual circumstances on the association here and not on an individual associated with
the association as the complaint is being brought on behalf of the association and therefore
Im not persuaded that any reputational damage was suffered by the association here.So as Im satisfied that S was told incorrect information on the original phone call and Co-
ops decision to move S onto the new system resulted in an unfair outcome for S, based on
their individual circumstances. I think it would be fair in the circumstances for Co-op to pay S
£50 for the inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision then my final decision and reasoning 
remain the same. It follows that Ill now be telling Co-op what theyll need to do to put things 
right here.  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Co-op should pay S £50 for the inconvenience they 
caused S and Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay S £50 compensation for 
inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman