DRN-3306403
The complaint
Mrs N complains that NewDay Ltd did not refund a transaction she made to a trading 
website which she says turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mrs N says:
Before the transaction in question, she deposited monies onto a trading website 
called Tradefintech.com using one of her credit cards.  
Her trading account was making a profit and Tradefintech.com had credited funds to 
her bank account.
The broker persuaded/forced her to invest more funds.  So, on 29 July 2018, she 
deposited £3,500 using her NewDay Mastercard credit card.
Thereafter, she had issues with accessing her trading account.  Once she had 
regained access, she saw all her funds had gone  and then she was blocked from 
her trading account. 
She later discovered Tradefintech.com were operating as a scam.
As a result of the above, Mrs N asked NewDay to raise a chargeback claim for the £3,500 
transaction.  However, this was unsuccessful  something which Mrs N complained about.  
NewDay responded stating that no chargeback rights exist for disputes about stock/trading 
sites.  
Unhappy with this, Mrs N referred her complaint to our service.  NewDay responded 
maintaining its position and adding that the transaction is not covered by section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ns complaint and upheld it.  In short, he held:
Chargeback rights do not exist for the circumstances of Mrs Ns complaint.
NewDay should have considered the transaction unusual for several reasons  
including the fact that there was a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning on its 
website about Tradefintech.com at the time.  Despite this, NewDay did not intervene, 
provide a warning or ask Mrs N any appropriate or probing questions to uncover the 
scam.  If they had, the scam would probably not have succeeded.
The actions of Tradefintech.com amounted to a breach of contract and 
misrepresentation, so the transaction is covered by section 75.
For the above reasons, our investigator directed NewDay to refund Mrs N £3,500; rework 
her account so that all interest and charges caused are refunded; and pay 8% on any 
payments Mrs N has made towards her credit card balance.
Mrs N accepted these findings, but NewDay did not.  In short, it argues that the transaction 
neither attracts chargeback rights, nor is covered by section 75.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 26 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning 
would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 
consultation paper on investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to resolve is whether 
this particular retailer/trader was actually a fraudster. 
I am satisfied that Tradefintech.com were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades 
but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets 
with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments 
from victims such as Mrs N.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded 
this because: 
a)After 13 January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK 
were required to be regulated by the FCA  whereas Tradefintech.com were not.  
Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware.  
This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions.  
Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
b)A warning about Tradefintech.com was placed on the FCA website on 21 May 2018; 
and on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) on 23 May 2018.
c)There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that Tradefintech.com were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself 
sufficient evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly 
and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall 
picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Chargeback and section 75
For the avoidance of doubt, I have not considered whether Mrs N had any chargeback or 
section 75 rights in relation to her payment to Tradefintech.com.  This is because I am of the 
view that NewDay ought to have flagged this payment and carried out some further checks 
before approving it.  I will explain why below.
 
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity NewDay is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mrs N for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is 
because they were made by Mrs N using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to them by NewDay. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mrs N 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her bank 
account, Mrs N is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider NewDay should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff 
within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
In Mrs Ns case, there was a warning about Tradefintech.com on the FCAs website and 
IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal from 21 May and 23 May 2018 respectively  these 
warnings were more than a month before the first payment on 29 July 2018.  It is not 
unreasonable to expect a firm the size of NewDay that regularly updates its internal alerts 
to include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without 
permission.  I accept that the warning did not specifically relate to binary-options trading; 
and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were 
fraudsters.  Given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, I think NewDay ought 
to have automatically blocked it; as it had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning being published and the payment being made.  The bank 
had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  
therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mrs N before 
processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well. 
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mrs N and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that they would have 
explained what they were doing.  In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to 
protect them from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited them to 
check whether the payee was registered with the FCA.  It could have also explained its 
own customer experiences with merchants like Tradefintech.com in that customers would 
often be prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that time, there was 
information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay 
consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary options including 
many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European 
Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 
scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth). 
There is no evidence that NewDay provided Mrs N with any meaningful warnings or gave 
her other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payment she was making.  It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs N responded to say she agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.  However, NewDay did not respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mrs N agreed with my provisional findings, but NewDay did not respond  I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd pay Mrs N:
The money she lost (totalling £3,500); plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) if the 
account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances werent paid in 
full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for the payment from the date 
Mrs N reported the fraud to the bank.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mrs Ns credit card account relating to 
the payment to Tradefintech.com and/or interest on that payment, NewDay Ltd is 
entitled to repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman