DRN-2860251
The complaint
Mrs H says The Share Centre Limited (TSCL) took over the administration of her portfolio in 
September 2019 but did not maintain the arrangement she had in place with its predecessor 
to reinvest dividend income. Instead dividend income was held in a cash account. Her 
complaint about this was made in February 2020.
What happened
TSCL disputes Mrs Hs complaint. It mainly says:
In April 2019, prior to her account being transferred to TSCL, the transferor firm sent 
her notice about the impending transfer which included a questions and answers 
section; one question was about the treatment of investment income and the 
associated answer included the following  In the case of The Share Centre this will 
be added to your account as cash. After a transfer of your account to The Share 
Centre, you will need to set up new income preferences They will contact you with 
more details on the options to either reinvest, pay to a bank account in your name or 
hold it as cash on your account.
TSCL wrote to her on 28 September 2019 and under the sub-heading titled 
Managing your dividends it confirmed that the default setting in this respect was 
retained  the retained setting  and that she could change that setting, if she 
wished, by selecting between three options  to reinvest dividends into the same 
company that paid them, to leave the dividends in the TSCL cash account or to 
withdraw dividends into her bank account. She made no selection at the time, so the 
retained setting remained.
In January 2020 her husband  who also had an account with the transferor firm that 
was moved to TSCL in identical circumstances, and who held a third-party mandate 
on Mrs Hs account  had a lengthy telephone conversation with TSCL in which the 
matter of dividend income in his account was mentioned by TSCL. TSCL told her 
husband that the default retained as cash setting remained and reminded him about 
the three options that were available. In response, he said he would keep the setting 
as it was while he discussed the matter with Mrs H.
In February 2020 her husband contacted TSCL by telephone again, he referred to 
the dividend cash retention setting in his account and expressed dissatisfaction about 
it. However, despite this he still did not select the reinvestment option for himself or 
for Mrs H, until 22 April 2020.
Overall, Mrs H received ample notices about the dividend cash retention setting  
including those through her husband  and chose not to change it until after her 
complaint. TSCL is not responsible for the matter.
In the main, Mrs H says TSCLs September 2019 notice was unclear and/or misleading, and 
that it breached the regulators requirement for firms to communicate with clients in a 
manner that is clear, fair and not misleading. She says the notice did not clarify that the word 
retained meant retention of dividend income in her TSCL cash account and that she was 
misled into believing that the word meant the retention of the dividend income reinvestment 
arrangement she previously had with the transferor firm, so she reasonably expected that to 
continue. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Initially, she was persuaded to agree with 
Mrs Hs assertion that the notice of September 2019 was not clear enough in saying 
retained meant holding dividend income in the TSCL cash account. She issued a 
subsequent view which she said was prompted by TSCLs disagreement and by her review 
of evidence in the case. She then concluded that the complaint should not be upheld 
because, overall and given all the information that was available to Mrs H at the time, the 
meaning of the retained setting was clear enough.
Mrs H disagreed with the change in outcome and argued that the fact the investigator was 
initially persuaded to uphold the complaint shows that if the trained and experienced eye of 
an investigator from this service could have initially found the September 2019 notice 
unclear, the notion that a layperson like her (Mrs H) reasonably found it unclear at the time 
holds merit. She maintained her core arguments (as summarised above) and suggested that 
the investigators change of view had been unduly influenced by another investigator, who 
was considering her husbands complaint  and she said nothing new from TSCL prompted 
the change of view. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued the decision in the complaint brought by Mrs Hs husband. His claims are identical to 
hers and are based on broadly the same circumstances. I did not uphold his complaint and I 
do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I have reached both conclusions for the same reasons  
which I address below. In considering her husbands complaint I listened to the recordings of 
the telephone calls that TSCL referred to. For reasons given below, they serve as important 
evidence and, given her husbands role in overseeing their accounts (which transpires during 
the recordings), they serve as evidence relevant to Mrs Hs complaint. 
A copy of the notice allegedly sent by the transferor firm to Mrs H in April 2019 does not 
appear to be available, only a file copy of the letter (and the attached questions and answers 
section) has been shared with us. Mrs H does not appear to dispute receiving this notice. If 
she did, as it appears, then it informed her that dividend income would be held as cash in the 
TSCL account unless she instructed TSCL to do otherwise. The questions and answers 
section of the notice confirmed this.
Mrs H accepts that she received the September 2019 notice from TSCL, so this is not in 
dispute. I am aware from her husbands case that he accepts he received the same, for his 
account. The relevant section of this notice was about Managing dividends. This section 
did not refer to any previous arrangement, and if Mrs H had received the April 2019 notice 
she would have known that previous arrangements were irrelevant. Even if she had not 
received the April 2019 notice, it is reasonably clear from the aforementioned section of 
September 2019 notice that its reference to the retained setting was a reference to how her 
dividend income would be treated at the time. As no previous arrangement was mentioned, it 
is reasonable to conclude that the retained setting could only have meant that her dividend 
income would be retained in the TSCL account; and it is equally reasonable to conclude that 
she would, or ought reasonably to have, understood that. 
I accept Mrs Hs point that the September 2019 notice did not specify retention of dividend 
income in a cash account, but the key point is that it also did not specify or suggest in any 
way reinvestment of dividend income. This was enough to alert her to the fact that if reinvestment of dividend income was what she wanted she needed to ask for that, because 
the retained setting did not instruct that. 
For the above reasons, I do not accept Mrs Hs argument that it was reasonable for her to 
find the notice unclear.
I now refer to the relevant contents of the recordings for the telephone conversations Mrs Hs 
husband had with TSCL in January and February 2020. I do this in the context of his role in 
overseeing their respective accounts  and I note TSCLs reference to a third-party mandate 
he held for hers  and in the context of his references at relevant points in the calls to 
discussing matters with Mrs H. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that information 
derived by Mrs Hs husband during the calls informed Mrs H equally.
In the January 2020 telephone conversation, TSCL referred to Mrs Hs husbands account 
setting for the treatment of dividend income, it commented that the default retained setting 
was in place, it explained that this meant dividend income would be held in a cash account 
and it asked Mrs Hs husband if he wished to change that. There was no ambiguity in this 
exchange and this information  as I have summarised  was clearly conveyed to Mrs Hs 
husband. In response, he expressed neither surprise nor disagreement, and he affirmed 
(and reaffirmed) that the retained setting should be kept as it was until he discussed the 
matter with Mrs H. 
In the February 2020 telephone conversation Mrs Hs husband referred to the retained 
setting and expressed his disagreement with it, but he declined TSCLs invitation to lodge a 
formal complaint about the matter during the call. More importantly, during the call TSCL 
twice invited him to change the retained setting to the reinvestment setting if he wished, but
he declined each time. Again, he referred to discussing the matter with Mrs H, and I note 
TSCLs evidence that the retained setting was not changed until around two months later
in April 2020.
The balance of available evidence is that if, as it appears, Mrs H received the transferor 
firms notice in April 2019 then she was aware of the default retained setting even before
her account transferred to TSCL, in which case she ought reasonably to have managed the 
setting when the transfer happened  which she did not do; whether (or not) she received 
that notice, she certainly received the September 2019 notice which gave the same 
message, alongside the three dividend management options  that message and the 
meaning of the retained setting were sufficiently clear but, again, she took no action to 
manage the setting; over the following months and up to January 2020 she could have but 
did not change this setting; she had an opportunity to do so in January 2020 after her 
husbands conversation with TSCL, but she did not; she had another opportunity to do so in 
February 2020 after her husbands conversation with TSCL in that month but, again, she did 
not; and it appears that the setting was not changed until around two months thereafter. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint and I do not uphold it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman