DRN-4454367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as The Co-operative 
Insurance) handled their home insurance claim. They are also unhappy with the settlement 
its offered.
Soteria is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Soteria has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Soteria includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2021, Mr and Mrs M made an escape of water claim under their home insurance 
policy with Soteria.
Soteria arranged for a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor recommended strip out 
works to facilitate drying. Soteria then appointed a loss adjuster, who contacted Mr M to 
discuss the claim. Mr M was unhappy that the loss adjuster suggested the floors might not 
need to come up, when the surveyor had said they would. It was agreed that the loss 
adjuster would visit the property.
The loss adjuster attended at the end of April 2021. Soteria says the visit was delayed by 
around two months because it had difficulty arranging an appointment with Mr M.
Mr M said he wanted Soteria to arrange drying if possible, but his own contractor would 
arrange reinstatement works and plumbing. It was agreed that alternative accommodation 
was necessary.
There were problems finding suitable alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs M, so works 
were delayed until September 2021 and then to January 2022. Mr and Mrs M then decided 
they would prefer to have the work done in the summer. 
Mr and Mrs Ms contractors were booked into start work in July 2022. However, there were 
still difficulties finding suitable alternative accommodation. So, Mr and Mrs M suggested that 
the works be started while they were away on holiday and Soteria cover their holiday costs. 
Soteria agreed to pay them £20,000.
In May 2022, Mr and Mrs M informed Soteria that theyd been advised their whole kitchen 
would need to be replaced because the units would be damaged when removed for the strip 
out. 
Soterias loss adjusters met with Mr and Mrs M and asked some further questions about the 
works that needed to be carried out. Mr and Mrs M were upset by the meeting and felt that 
the loss adjuster hadnt understood what had previously been found. 
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint about various matters, including the alternative 
accommodation, delays and their dealings with the loss adjuster. 
Soteria said it hadnt been able to find alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs M. It 
thought its offer of £20,000 was a fair and reasonable compromise under the circumstances.
Soteria said reports by the surveyors who first attended Mr and Mrs Ms property and the 
drying company didnt identify any water damage to the kitchen units. However, as Mr and 
Mrs M had provided photographs showing mould in the kitchen, it would be happy to 
consider any estimates Mr and Mrs Ms contractor provided to rectify this. 
It acknowledged a breakdown in communication between Mr and Mrs M and the loss 
adjuster. But it said it didnt think hed mishandled the claim or tried to cut corners. And it 
thought it would be best for him to continue to look after the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider their concerns. 
Our investigator thought the amount Soteria had paid Mr and Mrs M for the alternative 
accommodation part of the claim was fair. But she thought it should have been offered 
sooner. 
The investigator thought Soterias cash settlement offer of around £47,000 for reinstatement 
works was reasonable, but she thought it should add interest to the payment. She also 
thought Soteria should pay Mr and Mrs M £600 to compensate them for avoidable delays it 
was responsible for.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said shed failed to take into 
account some of the costings theyd sent to Soteria, including a cheque they hadnt cashed. 
They said she also hadnt included the cost of tiles Mr M had paid for. They said they hadnt 
expected Soteria to pay for their new kitchen, but theyd been told it would pay 50% of the 
undamaged units. 
Mr and Mrs M also commented that they had to live in a house with black mould for over a 
year because of a lack of alternative accommodation, which was a known health hazard. 
They said the work should have started in September 2021 but was delayed by Soteria. 
They were never given an appropriate response as to why no houses were available and felt 
it was a cost cutting exercise.
Soteria also disagreed with our investigators outcome. It didnt think it was fair to add 
interest to the cash settlement because it hadnt appointed the contractor. The contractor 
was chosen by Mr M who was also having some private work done. It was therefore reliant 
on Mr M or his contractor providing their costs and it was waiting months for these.
Soteria said it didnt agree to pay for Mr and Mrs M to go on holiday. They were going 
anyway. It had tried to find suitable alternative accommodation and came up with some 
options, but they were refused, and no compromise would be made on Mr Ms part. It said as 
private works were being done, this would have prolonged the time taken to do the work. It 
didnt agree it was at fault for the time taken to agree the £21,000 or there should be any 
further consideration for this in the compensation. It felt it had been over generous with the 
alternative accommodation payment.
Soteria didnt agree that it was responsible for delays to the work being carried out, or that it 
hadnt responded to contact from Mr M.
Soteria also told us it had increased its cash settlement offer to £51,567.16 to account for 
tiling material cost. I issued a provisional decision on 23 October 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs M has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings 
to what I believe to be the crux of their complaint. I wish to reassure Mr and Mrs M Ive read 
and considered everything they have sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Alternative accommodation
The policys terms and conditions say:
Rent and Alternative Accommodation
If the Buildings are made uninhabitable by any of the events insured under this Section
1. Loss of rent, including up to two years ground rent.
2. The reasonable additional cost of comparable alternative accommodation 
incurred by you during the period necessary for the repair or reinstatement of the 
Buildings.
We will not pay more than £50,000 in respect of any one event.
Initially Soteria didnt think alternative accommodation was necessary while works were 
being completed to Mr and Mrs Ms property. However, it later accepted that they were.
Mr and Mrs M say they had to live in a house with black mould for over a year because of 
the lack of alternative accommodation. They say the work should have started in September 
2021. 
It looks like Soteria started to look for alternative accommodation in the summer of 2021, but 
nothing was available. In July 2021, Soteria offered Mr M the option of a cash settlement or 
waiting until September when families were back from holidays, and more properties were 
likely to be available.
In response Mr M emailed:
I spoke with my letting agency. I could almost hear them laughing? They have just one, one 
bedroom un-furnished apartment. So I think we shall have to wait until September.
I presume the cash lump sum is for the accommodation? There just isnt any. So hopefully 
accommodation will get better after the school holidays?
So, it appears that neither party was able to find suitable accommodation over the summer 
of 2021, due to a lack of available properties.From what I can see, Soteria still wasnt able to find a property which met Mr and Mrs Ms 
requirements after the school holidays. Its noted that Mr M didnt agree with alternative 
accommodation options provided by its agents. He wanted a property with a similar aspects 
to his home, with a minimum of three parking spaces, in a quiet location. Soteria has noted 
that Mr Ms request for a three bedroom rental property was not a viable option as they 
normally hold a 12 month minimum tenancy. Soteria had originally agreed to cover 
alternative accommodation for 8 weeks but had extended it to 10 weeks just to be safe.
According to Soterias records, it offered Mr M a cash settlement of £6,000 in January 2022 
because it wasnt able to meet his accommodation requirements. Mr M then decided he 
wanted to wait until the summer for the works to be done.
Mr and Mrs M arranged to go on a six week overseas holiday in the summer of 2022. They 
suggested Soteria cover the cost of this holiday as well as Airbnb costs on their return. 
Soteria offered Mr and Mrs M £20,000 to settle the alternative accommodation aspect of the 
claim. This was later increased to around £21,000.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Soteria didnt find them suitable alternative 
accommodation.  However, the terms of the policy only require it to cover the reasonable 
costs of comparable alternative accommodation for the time the property was uninhabitable. 
Given the difficulties in finding suitable accommodation, I think it was reasonable for Soteria 
to offer a cash settlement to resolve this aspect of the claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns that the mould might have impacted their health. 
However, Im not persuaded that Soteria is fully responsible for the delay in the work 
commencing. It appears to have taken reasonable steps to try to source suitable alternative 
accommodation for Mr and Mrs M. But it seems there wasnt anything available that Mr and 
Mrs M were happy to accept. And it seems that Mr M made the decision to delay works until 
the summer of 2022, when suitable accommodation hadnt been found by January 2022. 
I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs M have said about the condition of the property when they 
moved back in. But the work was being carried out by their own contractors and I understand 
that some of it didnt relate to the claim. 
In any event, Soterias cash settlement was much more than a reimbursement of reasonable 
accommodation costs for the time Mr and Mrs M were unable to stay in the property. It was 
enough to cover other holiday costs including flights and hire car. 
Even if I was persuaded that Soteria should have done more to resolve the alternative 
accommodation sooner, I think the cash settlement its paid Mr and Mrs M was sufficient to 
compensate them for any impact this might have had on them. 
So, I dont intend to tell Soteria to pay anything more in respect of the alternative 
accommodation aspect of the claim. 
Settlement
The policies terms and conditions say:
If we are able to offer repair or replacement through a supplier approved by us but we agree 
to make a cash settlement, or for you to use your own supplier, then any payment will not 
exceed the amount we would have paid our approved supplier.
They go on to say:We will not pay for the replacement of, or work on any undamaged items or remaining parts, 
solely because they form part of a set, suite, group or collection of articles of a similar 
nature, colour, pattern or design.
Mr and Mrs M say they made the decision to replace their whole kitchen because they were 
worried that their contractor would find they needed one while they were away on holiday, 
and this would have delayed the works. They provided a report from the kitchen fitter which 
suggested that the cabinets would fall apart once removed.
Mr and Mrs M say a representative from Soteria told them it would pay 50% towards the cost 
of undamaged units. However, Soteria denies this.
Soteria says that a surveyor who attended in July 2022 concluded that the escape of water 
had only caused minor damage to the backboards of two units. Other damage was due to 
wear and tear. 
Soteria says it was never given the opportunity to assist in sourcing any of the items for 
repair, such as replacement backboards / carcasses etc, yet it had agreed to pay Mr and 
Mrs Ms contractors invoice and not its discounted rate it would have paid if it had been able 
to use its own contractors. 
The surveyors report from July 2022 says that three of the kitchen base unit carcasses 
showed mould growth to the hardboard backing and concludes this was claim-related 
damage. It looks like Soteria has accounted for the cost of replacing damaged units in its 
cash settlement offer. 
It seems that Mr and Mrs M decided to use their own contractors early on in the claim. I 
havent got anything to tell me what Soterias costs would have been if it had carried out the 
work. But insurers can often get repairs carried out at a lower cost due to them having 
established relationships with networks of building companies.
Given that only a few of the units appear to have been damaged by the escape of water 
event. I think Soterias cash settlement offer for repairs to the kitchen is reasonable. 
When she issued her view to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, our investigator recommended 
Soteria pay them a claim settlement of £47,211.75.
In its response, Soteria said it was willing to increase its final cash settlement offer to 
£51,567.16 to include tiling material costs. It said it had taken off £1,440 for cloakroom tiling 
because this was done twice.
Mr and Mrs M also queried the amount of the settlement. They said our investigator had 
failed to include the cost of the tiles theyd paid for and the cost of heat pads of £2,138.70.
Mr and Mrs M have sent us a copy of their contractors invoice for tiling which totals 
£5,759.40. They dispute what Soteria has said about tiling work in the cloakroom being done 
twice. They said that their contractors tiler wasnt able to do the wall tiles in that room, so 
they needed to pay separately for somebody else to do it.
I havent seen any evidence to show that tiling in the cloakroom was done twice. I think there 
was likely to have been some sort of miscommunication between the contractor and Soteria 
which led it to believe this was the case. So, I think the full amount of the tiling showing on 
the invoice (£5,759.40) should be added to Soterias cash settlement offer.I understand that Soteria sent Mr and Mrs M a cheque for £2,138.70 for the heat pads in 
around September 2022. However, they decided not to cash it because they wanted this 
payment to be included in the final settlement figure. 
I note that Soterias offer didnt include the £2,138.70 for the heat pads. I can see that 
Soteria queried if this cost was included in the invoice from Mr and Mrs Ms contractors 
(totalling £36,461 for insured works). It doesnt look like this cost is included in the invoice 
and previous correspondence suggest the payment was to be made directly to Mr and Mrs 
M. Theres nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs M cashed the cheque after saying they werent 
going to. And it would be too late for them to cash it now. So, I think it would be fair for 
Soteria to also add this amount to the settlement.
The addition of the tiling costs and heat pads brings the total cash settlement to £55,109.85. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think this is a fair amount to settle the claim.
Interest on settlement
Soteria says it doesnt agree it should add interest to the settlement. It says it was reliant on 
Mr M or his contractor providing their costs and it was waiting for months for these. 
Our general approach is to award 8% simple interest a year to compensate consumers for 
being deprived of money  that is, not having it available to use. In this case, Mr and Mrs M, 
have been deprived of the money from the date they paid their contractors and suppliers. 
I acknowledge what Soteria has said about waiting a long time for Mr M and the contractor to 
provide their costs. But I think it would be fair for Soteria to pay Mr and Mrs M interest from 
the dates they paid their contractors and suppliers until the date the settlement is paid. This 
would be at 8% simple interest per year. 
Mr and Mrs M should provide Soteria with a breakdown of the dates they made payments to 
their contractors and suppliers, with supporting evidence, if they want Soteria to pay them 
this compensatory interest.
Other matters
Mr and Mrs M have raised a number of concerns about how their claim has been handled 
and their treatment by Soterias agents. They were given conflicting information about what 
strip out works were required. They were particularly upset about dealings with the loss 
adjuster who took over their case in mid-2022. They felt he hadnt understood their claim and 
say they felt bullied by him.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with some of the questions that were asked by 
Soterias representatives. But I think it was reasonable for it to validate their costs before 
agreeing a cash settlement, particularly after Mr and Mrs M said they were planning to 
replace their whole kitchen.
Mr and Mrs M say a representative from Soteria told them it would cover 50% of the cost of 
the remainder of the kitchen that was not damaged by the leak in a telephone conversation 
in June 2022. I havent been provided with a recording of the call, so I dont know exactly 
what might have been said. Ive explained why I dont think it would be reasonable to tell 
Soteria to pay 50% towards the cost of the undamaged kitchen units. But I accept that Mr 
and Mrs M were caused some distress because I think they were likely to have been given 
the impression that this would be paid.This claim has been going on for quite some time, with Soteria and Mr and Mrs M unable to 
agree to a settlement. I acknowledge that much of the delay in progressing the claim was 
beyond Soterias control and I think its tried to be fair to Mr and Mrs M. But I think there 
were times when its communication with them could have been better. So, I think it would be 
fair for Soteria to pay Mr and Mrs M £300 for distress and inconvenience.
I set out what I intended to direct Soteria to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Soteria commented that the policy makes an allowance for the cost of accommodation. It 
said that whilst it does its best to source this, its responsibility only lies with the cost not the 
search. It said if Mr and Mrs M had been willing to widen their parameters on what rental 
could have been suitable, it believed something could have been found. It said the cash 
settlement for the accommodation was agreed based on Mr and Mrs M having a holiday 
abroad and being away from the site whilst works were ongoing. It believed this was a 
regular trip for Mr and Mrs M and had already been booked.
Soteria said Mr M had already booked in his contractors prior to any agreement on scope or 
cost. It was his own decision, made without Soterias agreement.
Soteria said it was concerned about the extent of the scope and wanted to investigate the 
full extent of damage by carefully removing parts of the kitchen and determining what was 
required to reinstate it. It was of the opinion Mr and Mrs M didnt allow appropriate access 
and time to investigate the full extent and obtain parts for repair. It said it was Mr and Mrs 
Ms choice to replace the kitchen. Soteria was only concerned with insurance works. The 
private works Mr and Mrs M were having done were extensive and included removing the 
wall between the kitchen and dining room, with a full run of undamaged kitchen units.
Soteria said the purchase of tiling was made by Mr and Mrs M at £5,759.40 and was 
included in its previous settlement offer figure. It understood the £1,440 was to redo the 
cloakroom tiling. It said Mr and Mrs Ms contractor had advised he tiled the cloakroom and 
Mr and Mrs M had it done again. 
Soteria said Mr and Mrs Ms contractor had advised that he had paid the £2,138.70 to the 
company who had carried out drying works. It said a payment was originally sent to Mr and 
Mrs M for this, but it was never cashed so it assumed they didnt pay this and their contractor 
encompassed it within his overall job.
Soteria said it believed the claim could have simply been a repair at a lot less cost. It didnt 
agree it should pay any compensation or interest. The delays were caused by Mr and Mrs M 
not providing the requested evidence and having additional private works done.
Mr and Mrs M said they appreciated the cost of tiles being accepted and the reimbursement 
of heat pads. However, they were disappointed that there had been no payment towards the 
units in the utility room, which had to be removed as they stood on tiles. They referred to the 
report theyd provided from their kitchen supplier and said the units collapsed and had to be 
replaced. Soteria continually claimed that units could be repaired but this was not the case. It 
had acknowledged the worktop needed to be replaced, so it didnt make sense for the units 
not to be included. This would be an additional £2,456.24.
Mr and Mrs M said there were also a number of misconceptions and inaccuracies in my 
provisional decision. They disputed what Id said about a loss adjuster attending at the end of April 2021. They 
said Soteria did not try to arrange an appointment. The first time a loss adjuster came to 
their house was in June 2022. They did not know he was coming. He accompanied the 
surveyor sent by Soteria because of concerns about the kitchen.
Mr and Mrs M said they hadnt wanted to wait for the summer for the work to be done. Their 
contractor had suggested to Soteria that as no alternative accommodation had been found, 
they go away for six weeks in the summer. Mrs M could only go away in the school summer 
holidays because of her occupation. They said they werent planning to go on holiday 
anyway. They were only ever offered one property and the complaint handler agreed this 
wasnt suitable. They werent offered any cash settlement until June 2022.
Mr and Mrs M commented that they were no longer asked to deal with Soterias loss adjuster 
from September 2022 onwards. But he continued to make calls to their contractor. He had 
also phoned their kitchen supplier in June 2022 but had refused to call him when he was at 
Mr and Mrs Ms house. They felt he wasnt transparent.
Mr and Mrs M said the representative of Soteria who dealt with their complaint had told them 
she would offer to pay 50% of the undamaged units as a goodwill gesture. They said it was 
possible there was still a recording of the call and gave the date and time of it.
Mr and Mrs M said they were facing an emergency in January 2021. The local plumber 
hadnt been able to help and had recommended the contractor who ended up doing the 
work. They said Soteria had never provided them with a list of contractors. If this had 
happened at the start, they would have been happy to accept one of them. They didnt make 
a decision about private work until the enormity of what was necessary was explained by 
Soterias surveyor. They said there was no excessive delay in the contractor sending the 
estimate of work.
Mr and Mrs M commented that they were concerned about the 8% calculation being left in 
the hands of Soteria. They were also disappointed with the compensation as theyd had 
three years of stress and delay. 
Mrs M sent me links to a newspaper article about the danger of black mould in homes and 
an article about a consumer who had experienced difficulty dealing with Soterias agent 
when making a claim. She said that she and Mr M were exhausted. They were worn down 
by the interminable way the situation had been handled with constant counter attacks rather 
than concessions and consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a lengthy claim and protracted dispute. Both parties have strong 
feelings about what they consider to be a fair outcome. Ive also been given different 
versions of events on a number of aspects of the complaint. So, Ive needed to make my 
decision on what I believe is most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr and Mrs M have made a number of points regarding what they consider to be 
inaccuracies in my provisional decision. Ill only comment on points they and Soteria have 
made that I believe to be relevant to the outcome of the complaint.
Alternative accommodationThe terms of the policy only require Soteria to cover the reasonable additional costs of 
accommodation while the property was uninhabitable. Soteria wasnt required to find 
alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs M. Although, I dont know if Soteria clearly 
explained this to Mr and Mrs M at the time.
Soterias records suggest it discussed more than one property with Mr and Mrs M. But even 
if this wasnt the case, it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs M were able to find a property that 
suited their needs either. 
Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of certain events differs to what is showing in Soterias notes. 
Its understandable that they might not remember everything that happened, given the length 
of time thats passed. Mrs M has mentioned that Mr M can sometimes be forgetful because 
of issues with his mental health. I think Soterias notes are more likely to accurately reflect 
what was discussed, given that they are contemporaneous and fairly detailed.
Soterias notes from January 2021 say that Mr M said hed cancelled repairs because there 
was no alternative accommodation available, plus it would be better for repairs to be carried 
out in drier conditions and a longer daylight period might mean workers could work for longer 
periods of the day. Its noted that Mr M said he and his wife tended to go away to an 
overseas destination in August pre-Covid and he would enquire with a letting agent about 
costs of accommodation, but there were also the costs of car hire and flights. It was left with 
Mr M to enquire about the cost of the holiday so he could consider Soterias alternative 
accommodation offer of £6,000. 
Regardless of whether or not Mr and Mrs M were planning to go on their overseas holiday 
anyway, I think Soterias cash settlement was generous. Not only did it cover their costs of 
accommodation for the six weeks they were away, it was enough to pay for other expenses 
such as flights (of almost £5,000) and car hire (of over £5,000). 
Mr and Mrs M have commented that a 12-month lease would have exceeded £21,000. 
However, they didnt incur the cost of a 12-month lease. They were able to enjoy a six week 
holiday overseas with the money Soteria paid them. 
Taking away Mr and Mrs Ms reasonable costs of accommodation, I think the amount Soteria 
paid them was sufficient to recognise the impact of any poor communication or delay it might 
have been responsible for. 
Utility room units
In their response to my provisional decision Mr a Mrs M said they thought Soteria should 
cover the cost of replacement units in their utility room. From what I can see, it was 
necessary for units to be removed in order for the tiling to be laid. Mr and Mrs M say the 
existing units disintegrated when they were removed. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Ms kitchen supplier recommended the units be replaced. 
However, Soteria says it wasnt given the opportunity to investigate this further, and 
replacement units might not have been required. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but Im not persuaded that Soteria 
should have to cover the cost of the replacement units in the utility room. These dont appear 
to have been damaged by the escape of water event and I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to persuade me that it was necessary to replace them.
Undamaged unitsIn my provisional decision I said I accepted what Mr and Mrs M said about being led to 
believe that Soteria would pay 50% of the costs of undamaged units, so I dont think its 
necessary for me to listen to a recording of the call. 
However, as I explained in my provisional decision, the terms of the policy dont require 
Soteira to cover these costs. So, Im not persuaded that it should.
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mr and Mrs M to be told that Soteria wasnt willing to 
contribute 50% towards the undamaged units when they believed it would. However, Ive 
considered the impact of this in my award for distress and inconvenience.
Tiling costs
Soteria says it doesnt believe it should have to cover tiling costs of £1,440 that Mr and     
Mrs M have provided an invoice for. Its referred to an email from its loss adjuster which 
says:
(Mr and Mrs Ms contractor) advised that he completed the cloakroom fit out and then Mr 
(M) didnt like it and uplifted it and did it again. Sounds like (the contractor) have charged for 
tiling in the cloakroom within their figures of £36k, but then PH has got someone else in to 
tile again. This might be the £1,440 referred to in the documents. I need to look into this a bit 
more to clarify.
Mr and Mrs M say Soterias loss adjuster misinterpreted what had been said. They say the 
tiler their contractor had hired hadnt completed tiling in the downstairs cloakroom, other than 
the floor. Their contractor didnt have another tiler, so Mr M engaged a different tiler to 
complete the work. 
I dont think the email from Soterias loss adjuster is strong enough to show that what Mr and 
Mrs M have said is inaccurate. In the email he said he would investigate further but theres 
nothing to show the outcome of any further investigation he might have done.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the invoice for £1,440 was for work that was being 
redone. So, I think it would be fair for Soteria to include this in the settlement of the claim. 
Drying costs (heat pads)
In response to my provisional decision, Soteria said drying costs of £2,138.70 were included 
in Mr and Mrs Ms contractors invoice, so they had already been accounted for in its 
settlement offer.
After I queried this, Mrs M told me she and Mr M had paid for the drying works as part of 
their contractors overall invoice, rather than paying the drying company directly. She said 
being sent a cheque for the above amount from Soteria had confused them and made them 
think theyd already made a separate payment. Theyd thought this was still owed to them. 
However, theyd checked this with their contractors after looking through Mr Ms bank and 
credit card statements to see if they could find the payment.
As Mr and Mrs M have confirmed that the £2,138.70 for drying works had already been 
accounted for in their contractors invoice, Ive removed this from the settlement amount. 
This has reduced the amount Soteria needs to pay to settle the claim to £52,971.15. 
Distress and inconvenienceMr and Mrs M feel compensation of £300 is insufficient for three years of stress and delay. 
Soteria says it doesnt think it should have to pay any compensation.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have found their claim experience to be stressful. However, 
the work was being carried out by their own contractor who was also completing private 
works for them. The policy only covered Mr and Mrs M for damage as a result of the insured 
incident. I think it was reasonable for Soteria to validate costs before agreeing to settle them. 
As explained, Soterias settlement offer was based on Mr and Mrs Ms contractors costs, 
even though it was only required to pay the amount it would have paid if it had used its own 
approved supplier. 
Ive explained why I think the amount Soteria paid Mr and Mrs M for alternative 
accommodation was also enough to recognise any miscommunication regarding this, as well 
as any delay it might have been responsible for.
However, I do think some of Soterias communication with Mr and Mrs M outside of this 
could have been better. For example, its communication regarding a contribution towards 
the replacement of undamaged items. I think £300 to recognise the impact of this on Mr and 
Mrs M is reasonable.
Interest award
Soteria doesnt agree it should have to pay any interest on the settlement. It says delays 
were caused by Mr and Mrs M not providing requested evidence and them having private 
works done.
Ive explained why I think it would be fair for Soteria to pay interest on the settlement from 
the dates Mr and Mrs M can evidence they paid their contractors and suppliers. Soterias 
comments havent changed my opinion on this.
Putting things right
Soteria should pay Mr and Mrs M:
A total of £52,971.15 to settle the claim and
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* from the dates Mr and Mrs M paid 
their contractors / suppliers to the date the settlement is made plus
£300 for distress and inconvenience.
*If Soteria considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct Soteria 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman