DRN-1845536
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cancelled a number 
of direct debits from the wrong account which has caused a number of problems.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G say that Mr G asked NatWest to transfer his direct debits from his account to 
his business account. They say NatWest made a mistake and transferred all of their joint 
account direct debits to Mr G's business account. Mr and Mrs G say that led to numerous 
problems of missed payments, impact to credit score and rejected credit in what was the 
months leading up to their wedding. They say the compensation paid by NatWest doesn't go 
far enough and problems continued for some time.
NatWest initially said it had made a mistake and paid Mr and Mrs G a total of £336 
compensation. It apologised for its mistake and wrote to all the affected companies to 
explain what happened and corrected Mrs G's credit file. It then said it listened to the original 
call from Mr G and says he told it to transfer the direct debits from the joint account to his 
business account, and so he made the mistake.
Mr and Mrs G had brought their complaint to us and our investigator also thought Mr G made 
a mistake that resulted in the wrong direct debits being transferred. The investigator thought 
NatWest had corrected Mrs G's credit file and paid an appropriate level of compensation for 
not noticing the mistake and correcting it sooner.
Mr and Mrs G doesn't accept that view and dispute that Mr G made a mistake and says 
there were earlier calls during which Mr G asked for the direct debits to be moved.
NatWest says it doesn't have a record of any earlier calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the call between Mr G and NatWest in July 2019. I'm satisfied that it's clear 
this was the first attempt Mr G made to transfer the direct debits as he makes no reference 
to any previous attempts. And that he says the reason for the request was due to him " keep 
forgetting to transfer money into his account  that results in failed direct debits. I also think 
that call took place at the same time Mr G received letters from businesses telling him that 
his direct debit payments had failed and warning him his accounts may be defaulted. And I'm 
satisfied NatWest has checked its records and there isn't a record of an earlier attempt to 
transfer any direct debits.
I have listened carefully to the call and I'm satisfied Mr G told NatWest to transfer the direct debits from one account to his business account. And that he confirmed the account details 
which were the joint account details and not his personal account. So I'm satisfied that 
NatWest correctly followed Mr G's instructions and cancelled the direct debits from the joint 
account and transferred them to Mr G's business account. I'm also satisfied this is where the 
problems started and it was not the case NatWest made a mistake as it originally thought.
I appreciate that NatWest ought to have listened to the call when Mr and Mrs G first 
complained and I also accept that the problem took too long to sort out. So I think 
NatWest ought to take some responsibility for the problems and for the delay in finding out 
exactly what took place and putting matters right. But I think NatWest has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation which I think fairly reflects the level of its mistake and 
that it wasn't responsible for Mr G's mistake. I'm also satisfied that NatWest acted fairly by 
writing to the businesses affected by the direct debit problems to explain what took place 
and has removed any adverse information about late payments from Mrs G's credit file.
I appreciate that Mrs G says her credit score has decreased.I can't be sure the exact 
reasons for that as a credit score is made up of many factors. I have no doubt that the direct 
debit problems in July 2019 would have affected that score. But as I think those problems 
were caused by Mr G's mistake then I can't fairly hold NatWest responsible for the decrease 
in the credit score. And I have explained that I'm satisfied that NatWest has removed any 
adverse data that it was able to do.
Overall I'm satisfied that NatWest has acted fairly by paying an appropriate level of 
compensation and by taking the actions it did with the credit suppliers and with Mrs G's 
credit file. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G will remain unhappy with what took place and will 
have unanswered questions about what took place and the length of time it took to sort out 
the problems. But I think the problems started due to the incorrect authority given by Mr G to 
transfer the wrong direct debits.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman