DRN-3306349
Complaint
Mr A and Mrs B have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied interest, fees 
and charges to their overdraft in circumstances where it was unfair to do so.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC ought to have 
realised that Mr A and Mrs Bs overdraft had already become unsustainable for them by 
December 2015 and so it shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. 
As HSBC didnt agree the case was passed to an ombudsman to review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr A and Mrs Bs overdraft 
from December 2015. By this point, it was evident that Mr A and Mrs B had been hardcore 
borrowing for an extended period. And they hadnt seen a credit balance for an extended 
period of time. Equally, the amount of the credits going into Mr A and Mrs Bs account, in 
proportion to what was going out, didnt suggest that theyd be able to repay what they owed 
within a reasonable period of time either. 
So by this point, I think HSBC ought to have realised Mr A and Mrs B were unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay their overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same 
terms. It should have instead treated Mr A and Mrs B with forbearance, even if this meant 
taking corrective action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mr A and Mrs B werent using their 
overdraft as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become 
unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms.
Mr A and Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a 
time when they were already struggling to repay what they owed. So I think Mr A and Mrs B 
lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr A and Mrs B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr A and Mrs Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from December 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr A and Mrs B to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan, Mr A and Mrs B are encouraged to get in contact with and 
cooperate with HSBC to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it 
appropriate to record negative information on Mr A and Mrs Bs credit file, HSBC 
should reflect what wouldve been recorded if it had started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in December 2015. HSBC can also reduce     
Mr A and Mrs Bs overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave them over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A and Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then HSBC should remove any adverse information from Mr A and Mrs Bs 
credit file. HSBC can also reduce Mr A and Mrs Bs overdraft limit by the amount 
of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr A and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman