DRN-2312123
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA). In 
particular, Mr L says he was not told about fees that came with the account when it changed 
in 2006 to a Platinum account.
 
What happened
Mr L had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1994. At some point this became a Select 
account. The earliest record of this is in Mr Ls bank statements from 2001. It cost £4 per 
month in 2001. It came with various benefits including mobile phone insurance and basic 
roadside breakdown cover; and, at least in 2001, no interest charges on overdrafts up to 
£50, and preferential loan rates. 
In 2006 the account changed to a Platinum account. In 2006 it cost £15 per month (whereas 
the Select account was costing Mr L £7 per month by then). It still had mobile phone 
insurance, but also it had better car breakdown cover, with home start and relay; and also 
travel insurance. Also the interest-free overdraft (when agreed) went up from £50 to £250. 
Our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr L didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Although the adjudicators looked at both accounts, its clear Mr L is complaining about 
how the Platinum account started  in particular whether he was told about fees and 
whether he consented to them. So Ill look mainly at that. 
However, I would just say I cant see good evidence to say the Select account was mis-
sold. Its too long ago to be able to tell how it was actually sold to Mr L. But I think its 
likely at least some of the features were useful to him, and I think hed have complained 
about the fees if he hadnt agreed to it. But overall it happened too long ago to be able 
fairly to say it was mis-sold. 
About the Platinum account, Mr L has said:
One minute I had a normal current account then I receive a phone call telling me 
you are a valued customer and you have been rewarded with a platinum account. I 
was never told about fees but sold that I would get lots of free benefits eg a better 
overdraft. Then it arrived with me never actually agreeing to it. For all these years I 
have been paying monthly payments when I didnt want it in the first place and 
was told a lie about the fees.
This did happen about fifteen years ago. So its not surprising that not all the original 
documents and records from the time are available, so that I can see what information 
Lloyds gave Mr L. And equally it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember the 
detail of everything that happened, and what exactly was said. So its difficult to know how 
much I can rely on everything Mr L now remembers. 
And it wouldnt be fair to decide that Lloyds did something wrong in the way Mr L now 
believes, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. But I dont think there is that 
evidence. And against this is the fact that the fees did appear on Mr Ls statements.
I can also see that Mr L made use of some of the features of the Platinum account, and 
has suggested some of the free feature was attractive to him (although I acknowledge 
that he says at the time he believed this wouldnt cost him extra fees). And when we look 
at cases like this, we dont just assess whether a bank gave the full information. Instead, 
even if we think it might not have given full information, we try and work out whether fuller 
information is likely to have made any difference to the customers decision. And I cant 
say that its obvious that Mr L wouldnt have chosen to take the Platinum account, if hed 
been told there were higher fees to pay on the account.
Overall, I cant fairly say the PBA was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman