DRN-3090452
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
Mr G experienced issues with the car including:
Shock absorbers leaking
Engine casing cracked and missing two clips
Chassis
Disc brake clips
Mr G raised a complaint about the quality of the car with Santander. Santander arranged an 
independent inspection of the car, which took place in April 2021. The inspection found 
damage to the underside of the car (subframe rails and undertray) which it said was 
consistent with impact with a speed bump or uneven ground. It found no missing clips and 
no cracking to the engine casing. It found that the rear shock absorber was leaking. The 
inspection concluded that the fault with the shock absorber would not have been developing 
at the point of supply due to the time and mileage elapsed since then. It stated that it was 
difficult to put a timeline on when the damage to the underside of the car may have occurred.
Following the inspection, the supplying dealer authorised the necessary repairs to be carried 
out at a third-party garage. Santander upheld Mr Gs complaint on this basis.
Mr G wasnt happy with the outcome and complained to this service. He said the supplying 
dealer was meant to arrange for repairs to be carried out to the undertray, but this hadnt 
happened. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the inspection found that 
the undertray of the car was scratched, he didnt consider that this was a fault which would 
make the car unfit for purpose or of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr G didnt agree. He provided a video of a health check which hed had carried out o the 
car, which he said showed that there were other issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr G  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
often than, say, a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality 
at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If 
the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Mr G and Santander disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and 
determine whether, on the balance of probabilities, the car had a fault at the point of supply 
which made it of unsatisfactory quality.
An expert report can help to decide whether a car is of satisfactory quality. In this case, the 
car was independently inspected in April 2021. The engineer who carried out the inspection 
found that the undertray and subframe rail were scratched but remained secure. He didnt 
diagnose any faults with the undertray or subframe. The engineer also found that one of the 
shock absorbers was leaking. This was the only fault found during the inspection. The 
engineer noted that this fault was likely to be caused by wear and tear, rather than a fault 
which was present at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the health check video provided by Mr G. This identifies issues with the shock 
absorbers, the chassis and the undertray. I understand why Mr G might have concerns 
about the issues identified in the health check. However, the health check doesnt say that 
these issues are faults. The presence of scratches and scuffing on the undertray and 
chassis doesnt automatically mean that there is something wrong with the car, or that it isnt 
of satisfactory quality. Given the age and mileage of the car, I think its more likely that the 
scratches and scuffs are cosmetic damage. This isnt something that would render the car of 
unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose.
The independent inspection identified a fault with the shock absorber. I can see that the 
supplying dealer authorise repairs to this, which have now been completed. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the repairs havent been successful, so I dont think its necessary to 
ask Santander to do anything further here.
Taking all the available evidence into account, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality. The damage to the underside and chassis hasnt been 
diagnosed as a fault and given the age and mileage of the car, these issues are more likely 
to be due to wear and tear. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman