DRN-3924454
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement that esure Insurance Services paid him under his motor 
insurance policy for the loss of his car. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was hit by another car whilst it was parked and unattended. esure said the car 
was a total loss. And it offered Mr S £7,612, less a deduction of £612 for pre-existing 
damage and MOT advisories, in settlement. But Mr S thought this was unfair as the car had 
a new engine, the pre-existing damage was cosmetic, and the car had passed its MOT. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
cars new engine would increase its overall valuation. She thought esures deduction was 
unfair as the car was seven years old and wear and tear was to be expected. Also, the MOT 
said the advisories were still within legal limits and esures engineer confirmed the tyres 
were good. And she thought esures valuation of the car was too low and it should increase 
this by £451. She recommended that esure should pay Mr S £1,063 more, with interest, and 
£150 compensation for his trouble and upset.
esure replied that it agreed to pay Mr S the deduction for pre-accident damage. But it 
thought the increase in valuation was unfair as it had followed our process at the time it 
calculated it. esure asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure has already accepted that it was unfair for it to deduct £612 from Mr Ss settlement for 
the pre-accident damage and MOT advisories. So I wont consider that aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint further. Mr S has been without his money for some time, so I think its fair and 
reasonable for esure to add interest to this amount from the date it paid Mr S his initial 
settlement until the date of payment. 
But esure thinks its unfair for us to expect it to increase its valuation of the car as it says it 
was made correctly at the time in keeping with our approach. I can see that the policy 
provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
This services approach to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations for cars but look 
to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has 
been made, we obtain valuations from motor-trade guides. 
These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be particularly 
persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely 
sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take all other 
available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr S provided adverts for cars similar to his and he also thought a new engine would 
increase its value. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are 
essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides 
are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. And, as the Investigator has 
explained, the cars market value is considered as a whole and a new engine wouldnt 
necessarily make a difference as its essentially maintenance. 
I can see that esure, and our Investigator, looked for cars of the same make, model, age, 
mileage, condition and specification as Mr Ss car at the date of its loss in four of the trade 
guides we use. esure discounted the highest valuation it found, £8,652, because this was 
out of step with the others. And then it took an average of the remaining three valuations that 
were closest together to arrive at £7,612. The policy excess was waived. 
I can see that the valuation discounted by esure was about £800 higher than the next 
highest and £1,000 higher than the average of those closest together. We think its often 
reasonable to ignore a valuation that is significantly higher or lower than the range of the 
other valuations. But I dont think this would lead to a fair outcome on this occasion.
Ill explain why I thinks this. Our Investigator found a valuation for Mr Ss car in a fifth motor 
trade guide that we now use. This was £8,828. esure thought it was unfair for us to consider 
this guides value as it had calculated Mr Ss settlement in keeping with our approach at the 
time.  
But our approach is that when a guide is out of line with the others, we dont automatically 
discount it. There may be other evidence provided (such as adverts or independent 
valuations etc) which supports the out of line guide. And so I think its fair and reasonable to 
consider this latest valuation as the information is available and this will lead to a fairer 
estimate of Mr Ss cars market value.    
This means that the valuation esure discounted wasnt an outlier. And so I think a fair 
approach would be to take an average of all five valuations. This gives £8,063 and so Im 
satisfied that it would be reasonable for esure to increase its valuation to this amount and 
pay Mr S £451 more in settlement of his claim. And, as Mr S has been without his money, I 
think esure should add interest to this amount.
Mr S has been caused trouble and upset by esures unfair settlement. He has had to repay 
his finance and borrow further to replace his car. Our Investigator recommended that esure 
should pay Mr S £150 compensation for this impact. I think thats in keeping with our 
published guidance and so its fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Services to do the following:
1. Pay Mr S a further £1,063 in settlement of his claim, adding interest to this amount at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the initial payment to the date of final 
settlement. 
2. Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim.
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Services to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman