DRN-4072110
The complaint
Mr H, a sole trader, has complained about AXIS Specialty Europe SEs refusal of his claim 
for business interruption losses under his business insurance policy. 
AXIS are the underwriters of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agents it uses to deal with claim son its behalf. As AXIS has accepted it is  
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to AXIS includes the 
actions of the agents.
What happened
Mr H contacted AXIS to make a claim under his policy with AXIS for business interruption 
losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr H provides equipment and services for 
events.
AXIS considered the claim but said that Mr H was not covered. AXIS considered the claim 
under a section of the policy which covers losses arising from denial of access to the 
insured business premises but said that Mr H was not one of the businesses that was 
required to close during the pandemic, so he was not denied access to his premises. 
AXIS said there was optional cover available to Mr H when he took out the policy, for 
business interruption caused by notifiable human disease, but Mr H had not taken out this 
benefit. 
Mr H was very unhappy about this and has made a number of points in support of his 
complaint. I have considered everything he has said and have summarised the main points 
below:  
The policy schedule states Infectious Diseases/Death  Not Applicable / Sum Insured per 
Wording. All other clauses which are not applicable only show not applicable with no 
mention to refer to wording, which suggests he did have this cover.
The wording would suggest that a fixed sum is not applicable to this cover and instead 
should refer to the policy wording which states, Our liability under this Extension shall be 
limited to 3 (three) months starting with the date of discovery of the matters at a) to d) above 
or, in the case of e), with the closure of the Premises. 
- The relevant column in the policy schedule is headed sum insured. This is 
interpreted by him and legal professionals he has consulted as having three options 
a fixed sum, not applicable and in the case of a non-fixed sum not 
applicable/please refer to wording non applicable meaning there is no fixed sum and 
instead to refer to wording. Otherwise, the policy schedule would just have said not 
applicable in relation to the disease cover. 
- He should therefore be covered for the losses caused by the March 2020 lockdown 
and also the later periods of lockdown which happened during the policy period. 
- He was also required to close and there were several activities that could not 
happen at the premises due to denial of access (e.g. production, programming, 
maintenance etc). 
- The Investigator accepted the wording in the schedule could have been better. As it 
is ambiguous at best, it should be interpreted in his favour. 
Mr H wants his claim paid and compensation for the delay and stress caused to him. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Mr Hs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant 
financial impact on him. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Mr Hs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the 
policy provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require physical damage to the premises which is not 
the case here. 
AXIS considered whether there was cover under the denial of access cover. It appears that 
Mr H might accept this part of the policy does not provide cover for his claim but for 
completeness I will address it. 
Denial of access
The policy says:
AUTOMATIC EXTENSIONS APPLICABLE TO SECTIONS 2A, 2B AND 2C [ i.e the    
business interruption section]
Denial of access
The Insurance under Section 2 is extended to include loss which results directly from 
the interruption of or interference with Your Business at the Premises in 
consequence of the closing of or denial of access to the whole or part of the 
Premises by the order of a competent Public Authority.
Our liability under this Extension shall be limited to 3 (three) months starting with the 
date of the order of a competent Public Authority.
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority in March 2020 (and later), so the policy 
would provide cover for any business that was ordered to close or was denied access to its 
premises, which interfered with their business at the premises. There was some discussion 
between the parties about whether any part of Mr Hs business was carried out at the 
premises, as much of Mr Hs business involves provision of equipment and services at event 
venues. I do not intend to make any finding about this, because I dont think it is necessary 
for me to do so in order to fairly decide whether this clause provides cover for Mr Hs claim. 
This is because I dont think Mr H was ordered to close his premises or was denied access 
to any part of them. The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant to considering this question. These regulations were important in 
setting out which businesses were required to close in March 2020. 
Mr Hs business of providing sound and lighting equipment and services for events, doesnt 
seem to fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically mentioned in the March 
Regulations, either as being a business that was required to close or that was permitted to 
stay open. Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine whether it is reasonable to 
conclude that Mr H was required to close his premises. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were pubs, theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These businesses would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
I do not think that Mr Hs business, as it has been described in the evidence provided to me, 
would fall into the same category. It doesnt seem to be an open studio, or showroom that 
was open to the public in the way that the shops and other businesses that were specifically 
listed as having to close would have. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that Mr H would have been seen to be travelling for the 
purposes of work when attending the premises. 
The regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an impact 
on businesses that were able to remain open. The restrictions on gatherings such as 
weddings, and other social events, and restrictions on movement that required people to 
remain at home without a reasonable excuse, would have all meant that the demand for    
Mr Hs services and products fell. However, this does not amount to an inability by Mr H to 
use his premises for business activities.
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr H was not required to close his 
premises, or any discrete part of his premises, as a result of the Government regulations.
 
The circumstances at the time would have meant that the demand for Mr Hs services might 
have fallen. But, whilst I do not doubt Mr H suffered a disruption to the normal operation of 
its business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use his premises. And I do not 
consider Mr H suffered such an inability to use his premises.
As such, I do not consider AXIS acted inappropriately in declining Mr Hs claim under this 
section. 
Disease extension
There was an optional extension to the core business interruption cover for disease cover. 
Mr Hs policy states:
OPTIONAL EXTENSIONS APPLICABLE TO SECTIONS 2A, 2B AND 2C
(The Extensions below are applicable only if specified in the Schedule) 
Our liability under any extension or combination of extensions shall not exceed, in
respect of any one event during the Period of Insurance, 10% of the Sum Insured
under Section 2 or £100,000, whichever is the lower amount, unless otherwise statedon the Schedule
Infectious Diseases/Death
The Insurance under Section 2 is extended to include loss which results directly from 
the interruption of or interference with Your Business at the Premises in 
consequence of
a) Notifiable Human Disease manifested by any person whilst at the Premises;
b) an outbreak of a Notifiable Human Disease within the Territorial Limits
Mr H thinks this clause covers him for his claim. However, it states this is an optional 
extension to cover and will only apply if it has been specified in the policy schedule. 
Mr Hs policy schedule says: 
Business Interruption 
Optional extensions to cover 
Infectious diseases/Death      Not applicable / Sum insured per Wording.
AXIS says Mr H didnt apply for this optional extension to cover and the schedule makes 
clear that there is no disease cover. 
Mr H says it is misleading, as well as saying not applicable it refers to sum insured per 
wording. Mr H says this means theres no particular sum insured for this section but that the 
wording in the policy applies instead. Mr H therefore says he is covered for his claim under 
this section of the policy, as there was an outbreak of a notifiable human disease within the 
Territorial Limits. 
The Investigator asked the parties for any records around the sale of the policy to support 
what cover Mr H had asked for. Mr H has not provided any evidence that he asked for this 
optional extension to the cover when he took out the policy, or that he had any other reason 
to assume it was included in the cover until the claim was made. 
Ive also considered the renewal information sent to Mr H. The policy summary sets out the 
optional extensions available, including the disease cover. The summary of cover for Mr H 
then sets out the main aspects of cover that he held, including business interruption. There 
is no mention of disease cover or any other optional extension to that section of cover. 
It is reasonable to consider the background, of Mr H not having asked for any optional 
extensions to his business interruption cover, when assessing the clarity of the other 
documentation provided to him. This is because I think it is necessary to consider what a 
reasonable reader, with all of the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to them, would reasonably have thought about this wording when entering into the 
contract.
While it would have been clearer if the policy schedule had not included the words sum 
insured per wording against the reference to the disease extension, I do not think that the 
presence of those words can mean that it is reasonable to conclude that there was this 
optional extension to the cover. I do not agree that the use of the words not applicable can 
reasonably be interpreted as meaning that there was cover for this optional extension but the 
sum insured is set out in the policy wording.  
The policy makes clear that the extension only applies if specified in the policy schedule and 
the policy schedule says not applicable. Taking account of all the information provided, I think the policy schedule is sufficiently clear that the infectious disease extension is not 
applicable and that this means there is no cover for this claim under Mr Hs policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rule s of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman