DRN-4185091
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him when he was the 
victim of a crypto investment scam.
Mr C is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr C throughout 
this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
exchange account (C) from his account with Monzo (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, taking account of good industry practice, Ive considered whether Monzo shouldve 
done more to protect Mr C. 
Mr C set up a Monzo account and the account with C on the advice of the scammers. I can 
see from his bank statement that he made 18 payments to his account with C from his 
Monzo account between 8 September 2022 and 6 October 2022. The payments totalled 
over £90,000. Between 18 August and 6 October 2022 Mr C had also been making 
payments towards the investment scam from another bank account (Bank A). 
Monzo blocked a payment Mr C made on 8 September 2022 for £3,180 and contacted him 
for further information about it. Where there is an interaction between a bank and its 
customer in relation to a suspicious payment, wed except the bank to do all it can to fully 
understand the nature of the payment the customer is trying to make. 
Monzo asked Mr C several crypto investment related questions. This specifically included 
questions around whether there was a third party involved who was helping and advising 
Mr C; what research hed done; how he was contacted about the investment; whether hed 
been asked to download any software; and whether anyone had helped him set up/had 
access to his crypto exchange account. Monzo also asked Mr C why his investment was 
being made by way of individual transactions, rather than a one-off payment. 
Mr C provided Monzo with a screen shot of his account with C showing a successful 
payment made into the account from Bank A. He also maintained throughout his interaction 
with Monzo that there was no third-party involvement, and that this was something hed 
wanted to do for a long time. He said the investment was recommended by a friend and only 
he had access to his account with C. And that it had been his preference to make the 
investment payments in instalments. Mr C also said:
My whole reason for opening the account with [Monzo] is because [Bank A] has 
made it very difficult for me to buy crypto 
Based on Mr Cs responses, Monzo was happy for the payment to be released. Before doing 
so, it told Mr C the following: 
Thanks for all the info so far. I just wanted to explain, we have a regulatory 
responsibility to make sure our customers money is safe. When we have concerns 
that a customer might be falling victim to a scam, we block the payment before its 
sent and reach out like this to make sure that your money is going somewhere 
legitimate so that you dont lose it. We also see that scammers will ask you to give us 
false reasons for why you need to make this payment to maximise the chances of 
scamming you - because of that - we need to see something to show this payment 
was legitimate.
Monzo went on to say:
Just to let you know, if you've provided us with any misinformation across our chat 
that results in you sending a fraudulent payment, we will not be able to refund you for 
the money lost. Can you confirm that you understand and agree with all of the 
above?
Mr C responded:
Yes thank you for your concern.
I accept Monzo knew Mr C had opened the account for the purposes of a crypto investment. 
It shouldve therefore been on notice there was a possibility this was a scam, and I think it 
was right to have questioned Mr C about the 8 September 2022 payment. But not all crypto 
investments are scams, and Monzos line of questioning to Mr C was clearly designed to 
tease out more information from him to see if there were any clear hallmarks of a crypto 
investment scam in this specific case.
Yet despite this, Mr C didnt divulge that he had an account manager from a trading 
company (P) who would be trading on his behalf  thus having access to his account with 
C. Nor was Mr C honest about how hed found out about the investment (on social media). 
Mr C maintained his responses despite Monzos warnings about providing misinformation. 
Mr C thinks Monzo shouldve probed more deeply when it interacted with him, particularly 
as it knew he was investing in crypto, and not just relied on what he said. But I think Monzo 
gave Mr C ample opportunity to divulge the background to the investment. And it 
specifically alerted Mr C to the fact that scammers will guide their victims to provide false 
answers, and the impact on Mr C of providing misinformation. 
But Mr C gave no suggestion to Monzo that his responses were anything other than 
correct. So, I dont think Monzo wouldve had any obvious reason to disbelieve what Mr C 
was saying. Nor do I think Mr C provided information that ought to have prompted a 
different line of questioning from Monzo. Whilst I think Monzo took reasonable action here to protect Mr C, Ive thought about 
whether any more probing by Monzo, or its intervention in other payments, wouldve 
made a difference. But on balance, I dont think it wouldve done.
I can tell from Mr Cs interaction with Monzo that he was completely caught up in the 
scam. But Im also mindful that Mr C was given some thinking time before he responded 
to Monzos questions, which gave him time to reflect on the warnings Monzo was giving  
and the accuracy and significance of the answers he was providing.
Im also mindful that Mr Cs initial contact with P was because hed enquired about 
investing in crypto. He wasnt contacted out of the blue or pressured into investing  it had 
been his choice. Mr C was also engaged with P about the investment since July 2022 and 
had been making payments from Bank A since 18 August 2022. And Mr C specifically set 
up the account with Monzo to facilitate the investment.  
This all suggests to me an element of choice in Mr Cs actions and a strong motivation to 
make the payments regardless of any warnings he received.
Furthermore, Mr M was in constant communication with his account manager who would 
calculate and advise [Mr C] on when to deposit the funds, and then he would do the 
trading for him. Mr C also said he was kept fully informed about his profits and was able 
to make withdrawals. It was only at the point Mr C wanted to withdraw all his funds and was 
asked to pay tax and fees, and then lost contact with the account manager in November 
2022 that he had any concerns the investment might not be genuine. 
Considering all these points, Im satisfied Monzo did enough to reasonably ascertain 
whether Mr C was at risk of financial harm from fraud  and, based on the information Mr C 
disclosed, Im satisfied Monzo gave appropriate warnings and advice to Mr C. And even if it 
had probed or questioned Mr C further on a later transaction(s), theres nothing to suggest 
he wouldve answered any differently. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr C has been the victim of a 
sophisticated and cruel crypto investment scam. But I think Monzo took reasonable action 
to protect him. And I think any further action from Monzo is unlikely to have made a 
difference. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Monzo accountable for Mr Cs 
loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman