DRN-2736239
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt refund his money after it transferred it to the 
wrong beneficiary.
What happened
Mr B asked HSBC to make a transfer of £1,200 as he was having trouble with its online 
banking. Both sides agree that the money was sent to the wrong person. Both sides also 
agree that the money was eventually returned to Mr B but that it took too long for this to 
happen  the money was refunded at the beginning of March having been sent at the end of 
December the previous year.
When Mr B complained to HSBC it offered him £150. Mr B initially accepted this but when he 
didnt get the money back, he came to this service. HSBC then offered a further £50 (taking 
the compensation to £200). After the investigator spoke to HSBC it agreed to increase the 
compensation to £350.The investigator thought what HSBC had agreed to pay was fair 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. He explained to Mr B that 
we are not regulators. We dont fine banks. We look at individual disputes.
Mr B disagrees. He says HSBC made a huge mistake and compounded it by failing again 
and again to put the record straight. He thinks that HSBC should be fined for its errors and 
the compensation he should receive should be well above its current offer. He thinks the 
bank deliberately spoke falsely to him. He is very unhappy it took eight weeks for him to get 
his money back. He thinks that the money should have been returned to him immediately 
and it is irrelevant whether he can show any financial harm. He was very stressed by the 
whole thing. He needs to know if HSBC has broken any laws or codes. He says he hasnt 
received £350 compensation already.
The investigator confirmed that HSBC has increased its offer to £350 which he thought was 
fair to reflect that it should have refunded the money sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter. I have summarised his lengthy 
comments as this is an informal dispute process, but I have considered them carefully.
As the investigator has explained we dont fine banks. We also arent here to decide whether 
a bank has broken the law or not. We do consider the law and any relevant regulations or 
codes, but we consider them in order to determine what is fair in the circumstances of the 
case. In this case HSBC has accepted it is at fault. It sent the money to the wrong person 
and it didnt rectify its mistake quick enough. It has now refunded Mr B. The whole 
experience did, however, cause Mr B stress. It is fair in these circumstances for him to be 
compensated. The compensation HSBC has offered feels fair to me and is at the level I 
would have expected to see for a case like this. I appreciate Mr B feels it should be more 
and should reflect the wrongdoing of the bank in the manner that a fine would do. But as I 
said that isnt what our awards are for. 
Putting things right
So, to put things right I think the total compensation HSBC should pay Mr B should be £350.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order HSBC to add to the amount it has already paid to Mr B as 
compensation so that the total compensation he receives is £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman