DRN-3415493
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle).
What happened
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint January 2022 and a further 
provisional decision in February. Extracts from those provisional decisions are set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Oodle, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this
complaint and Im expecting to uphold it. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr E. The car here was about
eight years old and had already completed about 69,000 miles when Mr E took receipt of it
so I think a reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months, as is the
case here, we are to assume it was present at the point of supply, when Oodle were
responsible for its quality, unless Oodle can demonstrate otherwise.
Oodle commissioned an independent inspection to consider whether the fault was present or
developing when the car was supplied to Mr E. The inspector didnt think the fault was
developing when the car was supplied. He said there would have been noticeable knocking
and the MOT inspector, who completed the MOT shortly before the car was supplied to
Mr E, has confirmed there wasnt any knocking as, if there was, he would have listed it as an
advisory on the MOT.
The inspector suggested that there was therefore no evidence noted or present at the time
of the inspection to confirm current symptoms of engine were present or in the development
stage at the point of sale (supply).
The inspector is an expert in these matters, and I accept his reasoning. But the relevant
legislation says that when we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory quality we
should also consider whether it has proven durable.
The engine failed catastrophically on this car after a little under 73,000 miles. I dont think a
reasonable person would consider a diesel car to have been suitably durable in those
circumstances. I think a reasonable person would expect a modern engine to last much
longer than that.
Ive not seen evidence that this car was mistreated by Mr E, for instance by running it low on
oil or not servicing it properly. So, I dont think theres evidence he contributed to the
premature engine failure.
I think he had limited opportunity to mistreat the car as hed only been in possession of it for
about five and a half months and had only driven it about 3,500 miles before the engine
seized.
It seems very unfair in those circumstances to expect him to pay over £13,000 to replace the
engine on the vehicle.
So, I dont think Oodle have been reasonable here as I think despite the inspectors report,
that the car hadnt been exhibiting signs of wear at the point of supply, it is clear that the
engine hasnt proven durable and the car has therefore been of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair the vehicle and I think it
would therefore be fair to ask Oodle to do so.
Mr E first reported the fault on 9 March 2020. Hes not been able to drive the car since and
Oodles system notes suggest he was never provided with a courtesy car to keep him
mobile. If Mr E has paid any of the finance instalments due from 9 March 2020 they should 
be refunded to him with interest as hes had no use of the car and has been deprived of that
money. Any payments that would have been due from 9 March 2020 and that havent been
paid, should be waived by Oodle.
Oodles system notes show that they have been aware that storage costs were being
charged by the dealership who have been holding the car. Its not fair for Mr E to pay those
charges and Oodle should therefore pay any storage charges that become due if Mr E
provides them with the bill.
Mr E has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to wait close to two years for a
resolution to his complaint and hasnt been kept mobile. I can see that he explained to Oodle
that he was struggling without a car because his wife was pregnant, and he had children that
he needed to transport. It must have been very worrying to think he may have needed to
fund a very expensive bill to repair the car after hed been able to use it for such a limited
period. In the circumstances I think the business should pay Mr E £500 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused.Oodle should also remove any adverse reports they have made towards Mr Es credit file in
relation to these issues and since Mr E reported problems with the car on 9 March 2020.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Oodle
Financial Services Limited to:
Repair the car at no cost to Mr E.
Refund any finance instalments paid by Mr E since 9 March 2020 adding 8% simple
interest from the date of payment to the date the car is repaired and returned to Mr E.
Any payments due from 9 March 2020 to the date of repair that havent been paid
should be waived.
Pay any storage costs if Mr E provides the bill.
Pay Mr E £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Es credit file since the car
broke down.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E didnt provide any additional information but Oodle did. They said it wouldnt be
economical to repair the car and they asked to reject it instead.
Id agree that it would appear uneconomical to repair the car and I therefore think its fair to
allow Mr E to reject it. Ive thought about what the redress should be in those circumstances.
Oodle should collect the car at no cost to Mr E and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr E has paid and add interest to that deposit as Mr E will
have been deprived of that money.
They should refund or waive any finance instalments paid, or due, since 9 March 2020,
adding interest to that refund.
Oodle will still need to refund any storage costs Mr E incurs and pay him £500, as detailed 
above, in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Oodle
Financial Services Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr E and end the finance agreement.
Refund any deposit that was paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid by Mr E since 9 March 2020 adding 8% simple
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. Any payments due from 9
March 2020 that havent been paid should be waived.
Pay any storage costs if Mr E provides the bill.
Pay Mr E £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Es credit file since the carbroke down.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle did not provide any further information but Mr E did. He said as itd been so long he 
no longer wanted the car and wanted to reject it. He said he had no faith that a repair would 
be successful.
As that was what Id suggested in my most recent provisional decision I havent found any 
reason to change that provisional decision. Oodle will be taking the car back and not 
repairing it.
Putting things right
My most recent provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr E and end the finance agreement.
Refund any deposit that was paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid by Mr E since 9 March 2020 adding 8% simple
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. Any payments due from 9
March 2020 that havent been paid should be waived.
Pay any storage costs if Mr E provides the bill.
Pay Mr E £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Es credit file since the car
broke down.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman