DRN-1553751
The complaint
Mr G complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited have failed to provide 
relevant documents or otherwise prove that the sums sought from him are correct and arose 
fairly. He feels its unfair for Cabot to pursue the debts without that evidence.
What happened
Cabot bought five debts relating to some loans and credit cards Mr G had some years ago. 
After paying towards these debts for a few years, Mr G asked a law firm for help. They wrote 
to Cabot from January 2018 to January 2019 raising various points and asking for details 
about the debts. These requests referred to sections 77 to 79 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA). 
In response to these letters, Cabot were unable to provide certain documents, most notably 
the copies of the original credit agreements that led to four of the debts against Mr G. Cabot 
explained that these debts would therefore be unenforceable. For a fifth debt, Cabot 
provided a copy of the credit agreement, so they told Mr G that this debt would be 
enforceable.
Mr G wasnt happy with this result, so the complaint was brought to us. Our investigator felt 
Cabot had provided a reasonable service. But his findings talked about Cabot not collecting 
the unenforceable debts, which Cabot replied to say wasnt quite their position. They said 
they plan to start asking Mr G to pay the debts a month or so after our process ends. Mr G 
feels collecting the unenforceable debts is unfair, and he shouldnt be pursued any more. 
As the investigators findings have not resolved this matter, it has come to me for a final 
decision. Ill explain below why I find Cabots service has been reasonable in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G doesnt dispute that these are his debts, and I can see hes paid money towards them 
in previous years. As Ill go on to explain, I dont have the full details of these debts, but Ive 
seen enough to be satisfied that these are, more likely than not, Mr Gs debts. 
Requests for information
Section 77 to 79 of the CCA gives people rights to ask their creditors or debt owners for 
information about a credit agreement. These sections also set out what should be given in 
response to a request, and what happens if thats not done. 
From a service point of view, Id expect Cabot to respond to reasonable requests for 
information. Id also expect those responses to be accurate, particularly to explain how 
Mr Gs debts would be affected by any relevant laws or codes of practice.
I can see thats whats happened here. Cabot were able to fully respond to the CCA request for a debt arising from a loan with a 
specific lender, N. Ive seen the copy of the original loan agreement and the explanation 
that was sent to Mr G on 30 April 2018, and the annual statements sent to him every 
September. 
Cabot said that meant the debt remained enforceable. I think thats a reasonable 
interpretation of whats written in the CCA. So I think it was reasonable for Cabot to reach 
that conclusion and explain it to Mr G. 
For the remaining four debts, Cabot couldnt give Mr G a copy of the original credit 
agreements. They told him this openly and explained that made those debts unenforceable 
under the CCA. I cant see that information is disputed, and it seems accurate to me. So I 
find the response there was reasonable too.
Can an unenforceable debt be pursued? 
A big part of this complaint seems to be based on the argument that an unenforceable debt 
cant reasonably be pursued. Mr Gs law firm have mentioned guidance from the Office of 
Fair Trading, which Ive taken some time to read. While they have highlighted paragraph 5.8 
in that guidance, I think 5.7 has a more relevant point:
If sections 77, 78 or 79 [of the CCA] cannot be complied with so the debt cannot be 
enforced in the courts, this does not mean that the debt disappears, and it is perfectly 
acceptable for a creditor to seek to pursue the debt.
Cabots approach seems consistent with that guidance, so I find its reasonable for them to 
continue to pursue the debts with Mr G. They made it clear to him that the debts are 
unenforceable and what that means for Mr G, which is what paragraph 5.8 then seems to 
say is needed.
Cabots contact with Mr G
Mr Gs raised points about being unsure whether the sums sought are correct. But I can see 
hes been sent annual statements every September for the debt with lender N, and 
twice-yearly for the other four accounts. I can see from those statements that Cabot hasnt 
added any fees or interest; the amount owed is simply what the debt was when they bought 
it from the original credit providers. 
I consider this enough for Cabot to do, unless Mr G has some specific evidence to show 
something has been miscalculated. For example, if he can show hes actually paid more 
than is recorded in the statements. 
Ive taken a general look at the contact Cabot have had with Mr G over the years. Mr G has 
commented that hes had phone calls where Cabot said they hadnt heard from his law firm, 
when the law firm had actually written to them. 
But I havent seen any evidence to support that comment. What I have seen are letters from 
Cabot to Mr G and his law firm that responded to his requests for information, or updated 
him about the status of the accounts. The letters focused on setting up affordable payment 
plans, or offered reductions to the amount owed if it could be paid off sooner. Each letter 
included details for debt advice organisations, and how to complain if there was something 
Mr G wasnt happy with. 
I dont see this as threatening contact. I see it as being consistent with the service being 
overall fair and reasonable. As a final point, I can see comments in the complaints raised by Mr G about the credit being 
mis-sold, but I dont consider that an issue for Cabot to respond to. They didnt sell the credit 
to Mr G, and any complaint more rightly sits against the original lenders. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaints about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited. No further 
action is needed from them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman