DRN-3389020
The complaint
Mrs T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined her claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs T has travel insurance as a benefit of a current account.        
On 12 December 2020, Mrs T booked a trip with intended departure and return dates of 
21 December 2020 and 3 January 2021 respectively. On 19 December 2020, the UK 
government introduced tier four restrictions in Mrs Ts area. That meant that Mrs T could 
only travel for work, education or other legally permitted reasons and couldnt leave the 
area or stay overnight away from home.   
Mrs T made a claim against her policy in relation to her unused flight costs. UKI declined 
her claim. In its final response letter to Mrs T, UKI said it declined the claim because  
Mrs T booked the trip against the advice of the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office, so cancellation was an anticipated event and excluded under the 
policy. Mrs T wasnt happy about that and pursued her complaint. 
Mrs T says that she couldnt travel because the UK government restrictions meant that 
she was in quarantine from 19 December 2020, so what happened here is covered by 
the policy terms and conditions. She says that the FCDO advice against travel to her 
intended destination isnt relevant here. Mrs T wants UKI to pay her claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mrs T unfairly. That was because the reason Mrs T cancelled her trip wasnt one 
of the reasons for cancellation listed in the policy. The investigator said that the 
lockdown provisions on 19 December 2020 didnt amount to quarantine and that UKI 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim.  
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the tier four restrictions imposed 
on 19 December 2020 meant that she couldnt go to the airport and that these 
restrictions werent anticipated. Mrs T asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, 
so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy covers cancellation 
costs if a trip is cancelled for certain, specified reasons. Mrs T says that the cancellation of 
her trip comes under the following reason:
Reasons for cancellation
[]
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, [] is quarantined []
One of the other reasons for cancellation is:
8. FCO travel advice All Travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your 
Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
The policy excludes certain claims:
You are not covered for
We wont pay for
[]
11. Anything mentioned in the general exclusions (page 17)
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
[]
2 Anticipated events
[]
Specific Exclusions
[]
2. Anticipated events
Any claim for costs you have incurred as a result of an anticipated event.
General Exclusion
[]
We will not pay any claim resulting from:
[]
Foreign & Commonwealth Office
We do not cover you for travel to areas where the Foreign & Commonwealth Office has 
advised against all travel. If you are not sure whether there is a travel warning for your 
destination, or you think you may need to cancel or cut short your trip because of a 
developing situation, please check with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office at 
gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint because I dont think that UKI treated her unfairly in 
declining her claim. I say that because:Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will 
decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of 
the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in principle but is 
declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy, the onus shifts to the insurer 
to show how that exclusion applies.
Mrs T says that her claim is covered under the policy as her trip was cancelled because 
she was quarantined. Im afraid I dont agree. The policy doesnt define quarantine, so 
Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word, as well as the context in 
which its used in the policy. The Collins English dictionary defines quarantine as:
 1. a period of isolation or detention, esp. of persons or animals arriving from abroad, to 
prevent the spread of disease, usually consisting of the maximum known incubation 
period of the suspected disease. 2. the place or area where such detention is enforced. 
3. any period or state of enforced isolation. 4 to isolate in or as if in quarantine.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think that the tier four restrictions 
imposed by the UK government on 19 December 2020 amounted to quarantine for    
Mrs T. The restrictions didnt amount to isolation for her, as she could still leave her 
home for work, education, childcare, exercise, and restricted social contact. So, I dont 
think that UKI treated Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably in not accepting her claim under 
this reason for cancellation. 
Ive looked at the other reasons for cancellation in the policy but none of them apply 
here. Specifically, the FCDO advice not to travel to Mrs Ts intended destination was in 
place when she booked her trip and didnt come into force after Mrs T opened her 
current account or booked her trip, so she cant rely on that reason for cancellation. 
Based on what Ive see, Mrs Ts trip was cancelled because of the tier four restrictions. 
Thats not an insured event under the policy. So, I dont need to consider whether UKI is 
entitled to rely on the exclusion its mentioned, as it wouldnt alter the outcome here. But, 
in any event, there had been widespread disruption to travel since March 2020. Mrs T 
booked her trip in December 2020, at a time when the travel industry was still heavily 
impacted by Covid-19. There were frequent changes to restrictions on movement and 
travel, so I dont think it was unreasonable to conclude that cancellation for those 
reasons was not covered under the policy, as these were known events at the time. 
Considering everything, I dont think that UKI treated Mrs T unfairly in declining her 
claim, so I dont uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman