DRN-3554188
The complaint
Miss I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund payments she made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In September 2016, Miss I was contacted by someone who said they needed to speak to her 
urgently. Miss I says they contacted her either by text message or through a messaging app 
and that she didnt recognise the phone number they were contacting her from. But, she 
thought it might be a friend or family member who had changed their phone number  so she 
called them.
The person introduced themselves as a spiritual leader, Ill refer to them as B. They didnt 
say her name, but Miss I says they talked about things that had happened in her past 
including her being in a long-term relationship and facing obstacles. Miss I asked B what 
obstacles she was facing, and he said she was finding it difficult to get married due to family 
not agreeing  which was correct. B told Miss I that if she gave to charity it would remove 
these obstacles from her life, but she wasnt allowed to tell anyone otherwise the charity she 
had given would be wasted. 
Miss I explained that in her culture, if you give something to charity in the right way you dont 
boast about it. Also, that spiritual leaders are common. 
Miss I was told to make payments to an account in the name of A, which was held by 
someone other than B. Miss I was told this person would pass the money to charity on her 
behalf. Miss I says when she tried to stop making the payments she was threatened. B told 
her that spirits would haunt her and that she would have a car accident and die. He also told 
her that her family would die. Miss I says she was so manipulated by B, that she was too 
scared to talk to anyone including her mother or the police.
Miss I made payments by bank transfer as well as withdrawing funds in cash from an ATM 
and handing it over to an individual who she believes was a separate person and not B.
Below is a table of the bank transfers that Miss I made. Some were made from her current 
account and some from her savings account.
Date Transaction details Amount
20.9.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   400
22.9.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   644
29.9.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   400
30.9.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £1,000
2.10.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £2,400
6.10.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £1,600
13.10.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £3,400
27.10.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £1,800
27.10.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   600
28.10.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   300
4.11.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   101
5.11.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £   946
12.11.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £1,950
23.12.2016 Payment made to A  from current account £2,450
10.1.2017 Payment made to A  from current account £4,200
21.2.2017 Payment made to A  from current account £1,000
3.3.2017 Payment made to A  from savings account £1,900
5.3.2017 Payment made to A  from savings account £1,200
8.3.2017 Payment made to A  from savings account £2,365
15.3.2017 Payment made to A  from savings account £2,200
20.3.2017 Payment made to A  from current account £   400
25.3.2017 Payment made to A  from current account £2,000
Total payments made from current account
Total payments made from savings account£25,591
£  7,665
Miss I says the spell was only broken when she had no money left and she broke down in 
front of her mother, who questioned why she was so upset. On hearing what had happened, 
Miss I says her mother made her ring the police to report it. She says the experience took 
such a toll on her mentally and emotionally, that she was unable to talk about what 
happened for a long time. So, although she raised the scam with the police in 2017, it wasnt 
until June 2020 that she was able to raise it with HSBC.
When Miss I raised it with HSBC, they opened a fraud claim. HSBC investigated and agreed 
to refund all the ATM cash withdrawals Miss I had made as part of the scam  and credited 
her account in August 2020 with £2,880. They also contacted the receiving bank and 
attempted to recover her money from the bank transfers. HSBC then closed Miss Is fraud 
claim in error.
In September 2021, Miss I contacted HSBC to find out what was happening and HSBC 
realised their mistake and reopened her fraud claim.  They issued their final response to 
Miss I in September 2021 and told her they wouldnt be refunding any of the bank transfers, 
but they apologised for closing her claim in error and paid her £100 compensation in 
recognition of this. 
What HSBC have told us:
Due to the nature of Miss Is employment, HSBC feel she shouldve been fully aware 
of the risks of fraud and scams and the signs to look out for.
The first few payments Miss I made were low value so didnt warrant additional 
checks.
While Miss I reported the scam to the police in 2017, she didnt inform them until 
2020.They say its not clear how Miss I was manipulated into transferring the funds.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Miss I brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Miss Is complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, they felt the 
payments werent unusual or out of character  so didnt think HSBC shouldve intervened. 
Also, that HSBC had done what we would expect in trying to recover Miss Is funds. They 
acknowledged what Miss I had told us about being vulnerable at the time but werent 
persuaded that HSBC was aware of her vulnerability and didnt consider it a reason to 
recommend they refund her. They felt the £100 paid by HSBC for the poor service was a fair 
award.
Miss I disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising the following points:
Its not acceptable for a bank to allow A (a single initial) to be input as the 
beneficiary name on a payment
The activity on her account was unusual
It doesnt make any sense why HSBC refunded the ATM withdrawals, but not the 
bank transfers
As Miss I didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional findings
On 25 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision due to reaching the same outcome as the 
investigator had, but for different reasons. I asked for both parties to provide any more 
comments or evidence they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I can fairly require HSBC to refund Miss I and Ill 
explain why. 
Should HSBC have prevented the payments?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When HSBC made the 
payments, it was complying with Miss Is instructions. At the time, Miss I wanted to pay A 
and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details.
HSBC is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Code 
(the CRM Code). The Code requires HSBC to refund customers who have been the victims of a scam, with some limited exceptions. However, the CRM Code wasnt introduced until 
May 2019, and all of the payments Miss I made were before this date. The CRM Code cant 
be applied retrospectively so HSBC isnt required to apply the CRM Code to her situation. 
But there is an obligation on HSBC to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers 
from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and 
identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations when 
potential fraud is identified, I would expect HSBC to intervene and attempt to prevent losses 
for the customer. 
Having reviewed Miss Is previous account use, Im not persuaded that the first few 
payments were particularly unusual or out of character. The first three payments were for 
less than £1,500 in total and made over the space of nine days. So I wouldnt have expected 
HSBC to have intervened prior to processing these payments. However, I think by the end of 
October 2016, HSBC shouldve had concerns about the increased activity on her account 
and contacted Miss I.
During the month of October 2016, Miss I made four payments. The largest of these was 
£3,400 and the total of the all four payments was over £10,000. Previously Miss I had mainly 
used her account for individual payments which were usually no higher than £300. She had 
made an internet transfer of £5,000 and drawn down a loan of over £10,000 into her 
account, but I think the total value of the scam payments, the number of payments, and the 
increasing frequency of the payments shouldve caused HSBC concern.
Because I think HSBC shouldve contacted Miss I to discuss these payments, Ive 
considered what I think is most likely to have happened as a result of that contact and 
whether that intervention wouldve prevented Miss I from making further payments to the 
scam. 
I realise that its difficult to know exactly what wouldve happened, but I only need to reach a 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in this case, I dont think 
that intervention wouldve prevented Miss I from making further payments to the scam.
Miss I has told us its part of her culture that certain types of donations to charity should be 
kept quiet. They shouldnt be talked about otherwise it undoes the good of the act of 
donating. Shes also told us that B convinced her she couldnt talk to anybody about the 
donations she was making, to the extent that Miss I didnt feel able to talk to her mother or 
the police. So, Im not persuaded that if HSBC had asked her about it she wouldve told them 
the truth. I think Miss I was so under the spell of B that she wouldve provided a plausible 
explanation for what was happening and continued making payments. Im also conscious 
that B told her that if she stopped donating bad things would happen to her and her family. 
Miss I clearly had concerns that this might actually happen as part of her beliefs and culture, 
so much so that she kept sending money until she literally had nothing left to give. She told 
us that it took her mother seeing her break down and not allowing her to leave the room until 
she told her what was wrong, before Miss I told her what had happened.
Having considered everything very carefully, I think HSBC shouldve intervened and 
contacted Miss I. But I think its unlikely if they had, that the scam wouldve been uncovered 
and the payments wouldve been prevented. On that basis, I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund 
Miss I.
HSBC made a point about Miss Is employment and role meaning she should be more aware 
of fraud and scams and the typical signs of a scam. However, I think this scam was 
particularly sophisticated and hard for Miss I to easily identify given it was linked to her 
beliefs and culture. Miss I raised a concern about being allowed to set up a payee with the payee name just 
being a single initial. She felt this shouldve concerned HSBC and resulted in their invention. 
But at the time Miss I made these payments Confirmation of Payee (COP) wasnt in place so 
the name of the payee wasnt checked against the name of the account the funds were paid 
into. The industry standards at the time required HSBC to check that the sort code and 
account number were valid, which they were. It didnt require HSBC to do any additional 
checks with regards to the payee name that Miss I used. So, I cant say HSBC acted 
unreasonably in following Miss Is payment instructions based on the payee name she used.
Miss I also queried why HSBC would refund all of the cash withdrawals she made, but not 
the bank transfers. However, HSBC has the right to reach an outcome based on their fraud 
investigation and their internal processes or policies. I cant reasonably require HSBC to 
refund the remaining transactions purely off the back of them choosing to refund the cash 
withdrawals. And, as Ive explained above, Im not satisfied in this case that I can fairly ask 
HSBC to refund Miss I for the bank transfers. 
I also note that Miss I says she was particularly vulnerable at the time of the scam and that 
HSBC shouldve protected her. However, I cant see that HSBC was aware of her 
vulnerabilities or, that in the circumstances, they shouldve taken any additional steps in 
order to protect her.
The level of service Miss I received from HSBC
HSBC has acknowledged that they closed Miss Is complaint in error in 2020. It wasnt until 
Miss I contacted them in 2021 asking for an update that the error was realised, and Miss Is 
complaint was reopened. I appreciate that there was a gap of over a year when Miss I didnt 
hear from HSBC, however I cant see that Miss I contacted HSBC during this time. Once 
HSBC were aware of the error, they reopened her claim. On that basis, I think the £100 
theyve already paid Miss I is a fair award and I wont be asking them to pay anything further.
I appreciate that Miss I is going to be extremely disappointed, and I dont want to minimise 
the immense impact this scam has had on her emotionally and mentally. But having very 
carefully considered everything shes told us, I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund her.
Responses to the provisional decision
HSBC responded saying they had nothing further to add. Miss I responded saying HSBC 
shouldve protected her as a customer regardless of the size of the payments. And, while 
she agreed the amounts were small, she still feels the activity was unusual and suspicious. 
She also disagreed with my conclusion that a discussion with HSBC wouldnt have 
prevented the payments, saying we couldnt predict what would happen if HSBC had 
intervened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I agree that the payments Miss I was making 
became unusual and out of character and warranted intervention by HSBC. However, I still 
think its unlikely that a discussion between HSBC and Miss I wouldve uncovered the scam 
or prevented further payments being made. Miss I was clearly under the spell of the spiritual healer who had given her strong reasons to 
not tell anyone what she was doing. This included relying on cultural beliefs whereby talking 
about the payments she was making (which were described as donations to charity) would 
undo all of the good work of the payments shed already made. Miss I told us she didnt 
even feel able to tell family members about what was happening, despite the pressure she 
was under. 
While its not clear exactly what the outcome of a discussion with HSBC wouldve been, I 
only have to reach a conclusion on what I think is the most likely outcome. And Im still not 
persuaded that a discussion with HSBC wouldve uncovered the scam or prevented Miss I 
from making further payments to the scammer.
Having carefully considered the points Miss I has raised, Ive reached the same outcome as 
in my provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint Miss I but I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund 
her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman