DRN-3998638
The complaint
Mr S complains about delay by Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) in making an in-specie 
transfer of his pension investments.
What happened
Mr S said he applied for a transfer in June 2020 but it was not completed until early March 
2021. He said the delays were severe and unacceptable. There had been a lack of 
communication which meant it took months not weeks to complete the re-registration of the 
assets with the new provider. There were large cash re-registrations with no reference to Mr 
S which meant the cash could not be invested. SL should not have accepted this cash 
amount as it meant it remained uninvested for an extensive period of time. SL also said it 
couldnt match cash due to its process but then did exactly that in January 2021 despite an 
additional fund not having been matched. This suggested the cash could have been 
matched earlier than it was. The process had been distressing due to the long and arduous 
timeframe.
SL said that whilst the transfer had taken longer than it would have liked, the delays with 
investing the clients cash, which formed part of the transfer, had not been as a result of any 
error made by SL. It received the transfer request on 25 June but couldn't send a valid 
transfer request until 7 August due to errors on the new business paperwork submitted by 
the IFA.
It then didn't receive an accurate valuation from the ceding scheme (which is a required part 
of the process) until 6 October - at which point it was able to provide its acceptance and re- 
registration details in order for the transfer to proceed. The ceding scheme didn't start to 
arrange the transfer of assets until 3 November. All assets except one were completed by 27 
November and at this point SL chased the ceding scheme to check on the progress of the 
final fund.
The remaining fund required it to send an acceptance to the fund manager (not typical for 
this type of transfer), but it couldn't do this until the ceding scheme provided it with their re-
registration details. SL received these on 14 December and the asset was completed on 29 
December.
In the complaint, the IFA had said there was a consistent lack of useful communication or 
urgency from SL to ensure swift re- registration. SL said it had provided the information 
required to the ceding scheme within expected timescales at each point and also chased 
them at appropriate intervals. SL couldnt influence or control the ceding scheme or the fund 
managers timescales.
When it sends a transfer request to a scheme, it includes the following notice: 
Please DO NOT send the cash prior to all assets being re-registered as we will be unable to 
accept these'.
SL received the relevant transfer information required from the ceding scheme on 13 
January and applied the cash the same day. The IFA was unhappy the cash was not applied 
to the plan until this date, but SL said it made it clear that this would happen. HMRC rules 
mean pension transfers must be like for like. For in specie, this means it needs all the cash, 
assets and pension transfer statements before it can apply the full transfer.
It didn't request the monies from the ceding scheme and made it clear that monies couldn't 
be applied until the transfer was completed, so it couldnt accept responsibility for the monies 
not being invested sooner. It could have sent the monies back to the ceding scheme if 
requested, but neither the scheme nor financial adviser instructed this to happen.
Mr S requested that the ceding scheme send the cash to SL before the transfer was 
complete but neither Mr S nor the IFA at any point contacted SL to ensure that it could invest 
this at that time.
There was an issue where SL accepted a fund which it couldn't actually hold on the platform. 
The asset was transferred back to the ceding scheme at the request of the IFA. Whilst this 
shouldn't have happened and it acknowledged this was an oversight on its part, the fund 
remained invested and the return of the assets was done after the transfer was completed, 
so didn't cause any issues/delays with the transfer so didnt cause any loss.
The cash remained out of the market longer than anticipated due to funds being disinvested 
and transferred too soon. Had its process been followed, funds could have been sold to cash 
and transferred at the last possible moment to avoid exposure. It's for this reason it didnt 
uphold the complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following
In order to make any award for financial loss and or distress and inconvenience I must first 
determine whether SL did anything wrong.
The parties had communicated at length. I noted also that Mr S has accepted the first view 
issued by the investigator but not the second.
I had not therefore set out a timeline at length or repeated the details as these were 
accepted by the parties. I therefore focused only on the three periods of time that both 
parties agreed are the ones to consider.
In considering those time periods I considered whether there was evidence of delay by SL 
and whether it was an unreasonable delay. It wasnt for me to impose an arbitrary timescale 
for completion of any particular step in the process. I had taken into account that the current 
industry standard for transfers remains 10 working days for each step. However I had also 
taken account of the fact that the industry in the TRIG consultation has acknowledged that 
shorter time periods are now more achievable and that SL itself accepted that a period of 5 
to 10 days (shorter than the ABI standard) could be reasonable.
I also thought it was important to reflect that an in-specie transfer of its nature involves many 
parties. In this case Mr S, his IFA, SL, the ceding scheme and each of the fund/investment 
managers and/or custodians for them. Therefore there is chance of miscommunication 
between parties.
I reviewed each of the three timeframes to consider whether I thought there has been delay 
and whether it is an unreasonable delay.1. Thursday 16 July 2020  Saturday 1 August 2020
This is a timeframe of 11 business days.
The first impression was that there is a delay, as it was longer than the industry standard 
and what SL itself said would be reasonable ( 5 to 10 days). I must therefore decide if it was 
an unreasonable delay. But to do so I needed to consider what was happening and why.
SL said it had an instruction on 16 July 2020 but said there were still queries as it didnt 
match that entered on the platform. While the IFA replied on the same day the reply wasnt 
attached to the correct mailbox stream until 31 July and hence the next action was not taken 
until 1 August 2020.
SL felt the adviser had contributed to the delay by not sending to the team mailbox. It also 
said if the details in the email matched the expectation that was keyed to the platform by the 
adviser there wouldnt have been any need for it to ask for clarification.
There were clearly issues with the information submitted on 16 July such that further 
information was needed before SL could take any action. So in essence SL couldnt start to 
do what was needed on 16 July. The IFA has not disputed this, as it says it then sent further 
information. Even if there had not been arguments between the parties about sending 
information to the wrong mailbox, it is clear SL needed more information before it could go 
ahead, whether that information was sent to the correct mailbox or not.
It wasnt for me to tell SL that it should act on information that wasnt sent to the main team 
mailbox but in any event I didnt think I needed to.
I said that because SL would have had to check what was submitted in clarification on 16 
July. If there hadnt been a mailbox issue it would not have been able to start to action the 
request until the information was complete so in effect 16 July is not the correct start date as 
the action wasnt ready to start at the start of the day.
For that reason I think it is reasonable to assume that but for the mailbox issue it would have 
had complete information by the end of the 16 July. That would have meant it could start to 
action the request with correct information on 17 July. Had it done so and allowing the 
industry standard period of 10 working days to do this, it would have completed this step by 
1 August 2020, which is the same timescale as it actually took to complete it. So on balance 
I couldnt conclude there was unreasonable delay.
I had also considered that once the information was received on 31 July, SL completed the 
next step on 1 August. So it does seem that it would have been possible to complete this 
step more quickly than the 10 days allowed. But that does not mean that I can conclude 
there was unreasonable delay. As I said the timescale taken didnt exceed the industry 
standard of 10 days so while there may have been a delay I cant say it was unreasonable.
2. Wednesday 16 September 2020  Monday 28 September 2020
This is a time period of 7 working days. The activity related to a valuation which was 
received by SL on 16 September 2020. It said the assets listed didnt match those of the
expectation entered on the platform.
SL said that it had to complete an acceptability check. This was a thorough check of the 
underlying assets of the funds, the liquidity of the asset and also ensured these investments 
are regulated by an approved body. The regulator would expect it to undertake these checks. While it may have already checked those assets and previously approved them, it 
had to carry out constant checks whenever there are any changes.
Given the number of assets within the valuation and the fact this was completed within the 
ABI 10-day timescale, I couldnt, based on the evidence and accepted industry standards 
reasonably conclude that there was any unreasonable delay in this step.
3. Monday 14 December 2020  Wednesday 23 December 2020
This was a time period of 6 working days. This is less than the ABI standard 10 working 
days. I could see from the timeline of events ( based on records from SL and the IFA) the 
following.
SL received settlement details for a fund on 14 December 2020. Based on this it seems it 
took 6 working days to prepare and send appropriate forms to the fund manager.
SL said the company involved were a worldwide international company and are not solely a 
tech provider for platforms. In this respect, it was a custodian and like any other fund 
manager, it was separate from SL which meant it didnt have any influence or control in how 
it processed the re-registration, but more importantly how quickly this was done.
The company was in this instance chosen by the external fund managers. It was the fund 
managers responsibility to choose the custodian. SL had no control over this. I noted that Mr 
S argued that SL had some control over the third party. But I think the explanation provided 
by SL is reasonable and it wasnt responsible for the time the third party took to complete the 
step.
SL was not involved in the registration process and it was therefore reliant on the external 
fund managers custodian processing the re-registration.
Given all of this and the fact the time taken was within the 10-day ABI standard, I didnt think 
I could reasonably conclude there was evidence of unreasonable delay.
Having considered each of the period in questions, on balance I couldnt t reasonably 
conclude there was evidence to show that there was any unreasonable delay by SL.
I did understand Mr Ss frustration but making an in-specie transfer isnt an exact science. It 
isnt possible to be certain of the exact timescale within which matters could be completed 
not least due to the number of parties involved. It is for this reason some opt to disinvest and 
complete a cash transfer. I know that Mr S and his adviser considered that but instead opted 
for the in-specie transfer to avoid time out of the market.
For those reasons, I didnt propose to uphold this complaint.
SL accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S wanted me to reconsider my decision and in particular:-
1. The ABI and TRIG standards. He referred to the comment that Many assets are still 
papers based so 48 hours was unrealistic and that with respect to the delay 
between 16 July 2020 and 1 August 2020 it does seem that it would have been 
possible to complete this step more quickly than the 10 days allowed. But that does 
not mean that I can conclude there was unreasonable delay, As I have said the 
timescale taken didnt exceed the industry standard of 10 days so while there may 
have been a delay I cant say it was unreasonable.He said this delay was mainly caused by SL not acting on the email SL received on 
16/7/2020 and claiming that it was not sent to the correct mailbox. This was not a 
claim they made in their initial complaint response of 22/09/2021. As had been 
mentioned, the correspondence was directly with a named individual and several 
emails were exchanged with her from the period of 6/7/2020 to 16/7/2020. At no point 
during this 2-way communication did the named individual at SL say that we should 
be using a different mailbox for communication. She asked for the information and, 
as per the custom that had been built in this particular phase of communication, the 
IFA replied directly to her with the required information on 16/7/2020. SL then did not 
attach this information to the correct mailbox stream until 31st July 2020. Given the 
context of the communication, he strongly felt  this was an unreasonable delay. If the 
rationale to choose the 2006 ABI 10-day standard over the 2016 TRIG standard (and 
ignore the advances in technology in that 10-year period, let alone the proceeding 4 
years to the date of these delays) is based on 48-hour responses being unrealistic 
because of paper based assets, then the 10-day period cannot apply to this delay as 
there was no transfer of assets at all at this moment. It was purely email 
communication to establish which assets would be transferred and SL clearly ignored 
a valid email to a valid inbox where valid correspondence had been ongoing for the 
previous 10 days, all of which had previously been replied/actioned by SL.
2. On the subject of technology, he found it very difficult to understand why I had 
overruled the Investigator, The investigator said When this service considers 
complaints about transfer delays, the approach we take is to look at whether each 
step was completed within a reasonable timeframe. Whilst theres been little industry 
guidance on such matters for a while, a 2016 consultation paper carried out by The 
Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group suggests a 48-hour (business day) 
standard for completing each step of a transfer. Given the adoption of new 
technologies this seems reasonable.
3. With reference to SLs claim that they were working towards the TRIG guidance, but 
had not adopted it, it seems as if this has been accepted as acceptable despite the 
TRIG guidance having been in place for 4 years, which, to us, does not seem to be a 
reasonable timeframe in itself to be working towards better standards for clients, but 
not adopting these standards. This attitude surely only impairs the ability to provide a 
good service to customers and, in this specific example, seems to have been noted 
by SL in order to excuse themselves for delays caused by themselves. It seems 
almost too easy for them to claim they have not adopted the TRIG guidance and, 
therefore, be able to excuse themselves of these delays.
4. With regards to the delay of 16/9/2020 to 28/9/2020, the technology point once again 
becomes relevant. He felt very strongly that it is reasonable to expect that advances 
in technology would allow for 16 assets to be assessed in much less than 7 or 8 
working days. 
Even if this time period is classed as 7 working days, that is an average of 2.3 assets 
per day, where the vast majority of the assets were either funds or listed, blue chip 
equities, which should not be difficult for an organization with the size and the 
resources of SL to assess. Therefore, he strongly felt the investigators original 
recommendation should be applied to this delay.
5. Whilst he accepted that an in-specie transfer wasnt an exact science, he asked me 
to reconsider my provisional decision, mainly based on the fact that applying a 2006 
standard to a process that took place in 2020 in an industry where technology and 
the efficiencies is delivers are fast moving, is, to us, not reasonable or fair.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind for the following reasons.
1. I note the comments Mr S makes about the ABI statement and TRIG framework. I 
considered both in reaching my provisional decision. The TRIG framework is not one 
that SL are required to adhere to though there is an encouragement to do so. SL has 
accepted that it is working towards the standard but has not fully adopted it as yet 
and I cannot tell it to do so. It is not for this service to impose obligations or 
standards on SL that are higher than those that exist and where neither the 
Regulator nor Law has imposed any such standard. I have however considered and 
applied these suggestions of best practice to each time period to reach a conclusion 
about each of them which in the light of them is fair and reasonable. 
I have set out below further comments on the issues applicable to the July 2020 
exchange.
2. With respect to the interaction between the investigators view and my decision, as an 
Ombudsman I review the evidence of the complaint afresh and reach my own 
conclusion. 
3. With respect to Mr Ss comments about the TRIG standard I would refer to my reply 
above. 
4. With respect to the August 2020 timeframe I would comment again that it is not for 
the service to impose an assumed timeframe for completion of a step. Had SL 
accepted that 48 hours was reasonable I could have done so. But it did not. I 
therefore considered it in the light of best practice and the circumstances of each of 
the time periods and reached the conclusion I did for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
5. Mr S also said that applying a 2006 standard to a process that took place in 2020 in 
an industry where technology and the efficiencies it delivers are fast moving, is, to 
us, not reasonable or fair. While I note what Mr S says and I understand his 
frustration, I would refer to my answers above and those set out in my provisional 
decision.
6. With respect to the July 2020 timeframe and the failure to use the correct mailbox I 
have considered this carefully in my provisional decision and dont think there is a 
need to further repeat what I said.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman