DRN-3947254
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lendable Ltd are holding her liable for a loan agreement she didnt 
enter into. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In January 2022 Lendable received an 
application and subsequently issued a loan for £5,000. The loan had a term of 30 months 
and the money was paid into Miss Bs bank account with her own bank N. In February 2022 
Miss B contacted Lendable and told them that the loan had been taken in her name without 
her knowledge or consent. 
She described how shed been the victim of an online scam perpetrated through social 
media. Shed shared certain details with a third party who she believed was going to help her 
reduce her debt and improve her credit score. She said multiple loans had been taken in her 
name and shed been persuaded to pass the loan funds on to the scammer.
Lendable sympathised with the position Miss B was in. They offered to waive any fees or 
interest associated with the loan and said they would look to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. But ultimately, they still held her liable for the £5,000. 
Being unhappy with this outcome Miss B raised a complaint with the support of our service. 
One of our Investigators concluded it was more likely than not that Miss B had entered into 
the loan agreement, and so she didnt recommend that Lendable needed to do more. 
Miss B disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigators outcome and for largely the same reasons. I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss B, so Ill explain why. 
Im aware of Miss Bs linked complaints about other lenders, but this complaint only relates 
to Lendable. Im sorry to hear of the difficult personal circumstances Miss B has described in 
recent times. And Ive no doubt of the impact the whole situation has had on her. Im pleased 
to see our Investigator has already signposted Miss B to organisations who may be able to 
provide further support. But my role requires that I remain impartial and reach an outcome 
based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
With that in mind, my first consideration is whether Miss B entered into the loan agreement 
or whether this was done without her knowledge and consent as she alleges. Key to this is a 
conversation that took place between Miss B and N on 11 January 2022. The loan had been 
paid into her account the previous day. The conversation was N speaking to Miss B seeking 
to protect her from a fraud or scam. They asked her questions about an outgoing payment 
she was instructing. Miss B explained that she was sending money to a friend who was 
using it to help her pay legal costs relating to a dispute she was having. During the call the 
following exchange took place:
N: I can see that you have recently got a couple of loans out havent you?
Miss B: Yes I have.
N: Is that to pay for this then or to pay for part of it?
Miss B: Yes to pay for it so Ive got a roof over my head. 
Miss Bs statements from N show that in addition to the Lendable loan there were other 
loans credited to her account in the days prior to 11 January when the phone call took place. 
I think its most likely that the Lendable loan is one of those the agent was referring to. I find 
this call to be persuasive evidence. If Miss B hadnt consented to the loan or didnt know the 
loan was in her name, its difficult to understand why she told N she had taken the loan. 
Particularly when she didnt then raise this with Lendable until late February 2022. 
Miss B has since said that the payments (including the one N were querying) were upon the 
direction of the scammer. But again, its not clear why she didnt tell N the payment was in 
relation to clearing debts and improving her credit score. Miss B later told our service that 
the scammer had reassured her that no loans were in her name and that it was all part of the 
process. And this continued until direct debits relating to loans started to come out of her 
account. But again, this contrasts what she told N at the time, specifically that she had taken 
the loans in question. The inconsistencies between what Miss B said at the time to N and 
what shes later told Lendable and our service, make it difficult for me to place a lot of weight 
on her testimony as reliable and credible evidence.
I appreciate that amongst the chats between Miss B and the scammer that she has 
provided, there is evidence of her accusing the scammer of taking multiple loans without her 
consent. But this comes later, after the relationship between Miss B and the scammer seems 
to have deteriorated. And as such Ive placed more weight on the evidence from the time 
closer to when the loans were taken, particularly the call with N.  
Overall, I dont think Lendable concluding that Miss B likely agreed to enter into the loan 
agreement was unfair or unreasonable. Miss B has also questioned whether the loan ought 
to have been agreed given her income and credit rating. But Lendable have already agreed 
to waive the interest and charges relating to the loan. This is what Id direct them to do even 
if I were to find that the lending was unaffordable for Miss B. So, I dont need to make a 
finding on affordability as Miss B is already in the position she would be, were I to find in her 
favour on that point.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman