DRN-2736751
The complaint
Ms H believes that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, have overcharged the 
interest on her account.
What happened
Ms H raised a complaint with Barclays because she felt that Barclays were overcharging the 
interest on her credit account. Barclays looked at Ms Hs complaint, but their review 
confirmed that they were charging the correct amount of interest to Ms Hs account. So, they 
sent Ms H an explanation of the interest being charged and didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays were 
charging the correct amount of interest to Ms Hs account, so they also didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Ms H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Ms Hs account statements and the information that Barclays provided to this 
service regarding the calculation of the interest on Ms Hs account. And having done so Im 
satisfied that Barclays are charging the correct amount of interest to Ms Hs account and that 
Ms H isnt being overcharged interest on her account as she believes is the case.
I note that explanations as to how the interest is charged on Ms Hs account have been 
provided to Ms H by both Barclays and by our investigator, and so I see little value in 
repeating these explanations here. 
If Ms H continues to require a clearer understanding of how the interest is charged on her 
account, I would encourage her to seek to arrange a face to face meeting with Barclays so 
that such an explanation can be provided to her in person.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Ms H was wanting here, but given that Im 
satisfied that her account is accruing interest at the correct rate, it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman