DRN-3456882
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded any premiums he paid for 
his travel insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the service hes received.
What happened
Mr H held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which covered him between 
14 February 2020 and 13 February 2021. The insurer was Great Lakes.
There have been several parties involved here. But the issues Mr H is complaining about are 
ultimately the responsibility of Great Lakes. So, for simplicity, Ill only refer to Great Lakes in 
my decision.
Mr H travelled abroad between 19 February and 7 March 2020. While abroad, he incurred 
medical costs, and he made a claim for these to Great Lakes. He first wrote to Great Lakes 
about this claim on 13 March 2020  but it wasnt until 17 November 2020 that Great Lakes 
issued a cheque in settlement of the claim. Great Lakes paid Mr H £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused during this time.
Mr H had planned to travel abroad again, but he wasnt able to do so due to the Covid-19 
global pandemic. So, he wrote to Great Lakes on 25 July 2020 asking for an extension to his 
policy. Great Lakes didnt agree to this, and it said that it also couldnt refund any of the 
premiums Mr H had paid.
Unhappy with the response from Great Lakes, Mr H brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Overall, she didnt think Great Lakes had done anything 
wrong when it didnt offer Mr H a refund of his premiums. This was because not only was 
Mr H not entitled to any refund under the terms and conditions of his policy, he had also 
made a successful claim on the policy. So, she didnt think it would be fair or reasonable for 
Great Lakes to refund any of the premiums. She also didnt think Great Lakes needed to 
extend the policy period in the circumstances.
However, our investigator said that Great Lakes had caused unnecessary delays and 
confusion for Mr H. She didnt think £50 fairly compensated Mr H for these  she thought a 
total of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Great Lakes agreed to pay the 
additional £150, but Mr H wanted an ombudsman to review everything.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. Its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As our investigator explained, Mr H isnt entitled to a refund of premiums under the terms 
and conditions of his policy. And fundamentally, the key issue here is that Mr H made a 
successful claim on the policy. That means hes had the benefit of the policy. Overall, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to refund him any of the premiums he 
paid, even while he wasnt able to travel again during the remaining policy period due to 
Covid-19. I also dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong when it declined to extend the 
policy period  there was no requirement for it to do so.
Ive looked through the timeline of events. I accept that some of the delays were outside of 
Great Lakes control due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. But I agree with our investigator 
that there have been unnecessary delays and confusion caused by Great Lakes, which had 
an impact on Mr H.
For example, Mr H had to request the medical expense claim form a few times before 
Great Lakes sent it. It later referred to this having been sent already in February 2020, but 
this was a cancellation claim form. Great Lakes also incorrectly told Mr H that he had to pay 
his medical costs before claiming, whereas it couldve settled these directly with the medical 
provider. This incorrect information resulted in a delay in moving things forward.
Great Lakes also asked Mr H to arrange his GP to complete a medical certificate  which 
mightve incurred a cost to Mr H  when this wasnt actually needed due to the reason hed 
incurred the medical costs. While I understand why Great Lakes originally requested this, 
considering the delays here, I think it couldve confirmed much earlier that this wasnt 
actually needed in the circumstances. Instead, this resulted in a further delay to settle the 
claim.
Great Lakes has agreed to pay a total of £200 (so, £150 in addition to the £50 already paid) 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused to Mr H. I think this is a fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should pay Mr H an additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
 so, a total of £200.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Renja AndersonOmbudsman