DRN-4482820
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the refund of premium he received when he cancelled his
Learners Motor Insurance policy with Collingwood Insurance Company Limited. And the fact
that he was charged a £40 cancellation fee.
The cancellation fee was charged by Mr Bs insurance broker, not by Collingwood, so I have
not considered this aspect in this decision.
Mr B is represented by Mrs D.
What happened
Mr D took out the policy with Collingwood. He paid £205 for the policy, which included a £70
broker fee. Overall, he paid £242, but £37 of this was for a separate breakdown assistance
policy. Ive assumed this is with a separate insurer and I understand there is no refund due
for this policy on cancellation.
Around eight months into the policy term Mr B passed his driving test. Mrs D contacted his
insurance broker to let it know Mr B had passed his test. It told her Mr Bs policy would have
to be cancelled. It then let her know that this meant Mr B owed them £26.50. Mrs D was
surprised by this, as she had expected Mr B to get a refund.
Mrs D complained to both Mr Bs broker and Collingwood on his behalf. She said Mr B was
unhappy that he had £26.50 left to pay and that he was forced into cancelling the policy.
Collingwood issued a final response letter on the complaint to Mrs D. In this it provided a
breakdown of the charges for Mr Bs policy. This showed Mr B had only received a refund of
10% of the premium, despite the policy being cancelled about 70% of the way through its
term. It also showed his broker had charged a £70 fee for arranging the policy and a £40 fee
for cancelling it. Collingwood didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In doing so it said it was
satisfied that the premium refund it had provided was in line with the policy terms. It also said
it was satisfied that all the necessary information was provided to Mr B when he took out the
policy to enable him to make an informed decision on whether it was suitable for him.
Mrs D asked us to consider Mr Bs complaint. She said she didnt think it was fair that Mr B
had been charged 90% of the premium when hed only had the policy around eight months.
She explained that she thought the policy term setting out the refunds due if the policy was
cancelled was unfair.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. He said that he didnt think the refund
provided by Collingwood was fair on the basis it didnt represent the spread of risk under Mr
Bs policy. He said Collingwood should provide a pro rata refund.
Collingwood didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans
decision. It explained that the likelihood of a claim in the last three or four months of the
type of policy Mr B had was much lower than in earlier months. And it also explained
that the reason it doesnt provide any refund at all in the last three months of the policy term
for its Learners Motor Insurance policy is that it discounts the premium on every policy it
sells. Collingwoods point was that if it had not provided this discount and instead charged 
Mr B the full premium and then provided him with a refund, he wouldnt have been any better 
off. It thought the rules under which it operates, the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) allowed it to 
approach premium refunds in this way.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not agree with Collingwoods view that ICOBS 7.1.2 has any bearing on what it can
charge for cancellation outside the cooling off period. In my opinion, all this is referring to is
the right to provide a longer cooling off period if a firm wants to and the fact that this must be
on terms at least as favourable to those set out for the cooling off period in the remainder of
Chapter 7.
In my opinion, ICOBS is silent on what a firm can charge for cancellation after the cooling off
period has ended. But the Principles for Businesses set out in the FCA Handbook mean that
Collingwood needs to act with due regards to the interests of its customers. It also needs to
make sure that the terms of the policy are not unfair as per The Consumer Rights Act.
Mrs D thinks the refund terms in the policy are unfair because they provide a very limited
refund of premium or no refund at all in the last three months of the policy period. But I dont
think they are because Im satisfied with Collingwoods explanation of why there is less than
a pro rata refund irrespective of when the policy is cancelled. It is partly because statistics
show that policyholders are more likely to make a claim in the earlier months. And because
Collingwood discounts the premium for every policyholder. I cant go into more detail than
this, as I think the detailed information Collingwood has provided is commercially sensitive.
But I think it means that if Mr B had not been charged the discounted premium at the
beginning he would have ended up paying roughly the same for the period he was on cover
if he had received a pro rata refund of the higher premium he would have paid. I appreciate
this is not a full explanation, but I hope it will be clear to Mrs D why I think the refund terms in
the policy arent unfair.
Ive also considered Collingwoods other obligations under ICOBS and the Insurance
Distribution Directive and what these say about the Insurance Product Information Document
(IPID). These and good industry practice make it clear Collingwood needed to produce an
IPID for its Learners Motor Insurance policy so that Mr Bs broker could provide this to him
prior to him buying the policy or soon after doing so. And ICOBS sets out the information that
Collingwood needed to include in this document. It also states that in deciding this
Collingwood should consider the needs of its typical customer for the policy.
The policy Mr B purchased was specifically for learner drivers and it has to be cancelled
when the policyholder passes their test. This means it is much more likely to be cancelled
early. In view of this I think Collingwood needed to include in the IPID the fact the policy will
have to be cancelled if the policyholder passes their driving test, that the refund provided is
not on a pro rata basis and specifically that there is no refund at all in the last three months
of the policy period. This information was not included in the IPID. The IPID simply refers to
the fact that if the policyholder cancels after the cooling off period has ended a refund will be
calculated in accordance with the scale at the end of the cancellation section of the policy
document. I dont think this is good enough for me to conclude Collingwood met its
obligations in respect of the IPID.This means I need to consider whether Collingwoods failure to meet its obligations in
respect of the IPID has prejudiced Mr Bs position. In other words, I need to consider
whether he would have acted any differently if the IPID had referred to the fact his policy
would have to be cancelled if he passed his test and that he would not receive a pro rata
refund of premium at any point. And that he wouldnt receive any refund at all in the last
three months.
Bearing in mind the total cost of the basic motor insurance policy to Mr B was £205, which is
what I consider to be a competitive premium, as things stand, I still think Mr B would have
continued with the policy if he got the IPID shortly after buying it and saw that it would need
to be cancelled if he passed his test in the policy period and that he would not receive a pro
rata refund at any time. And no refund if he cancelled it in the last three months. After all,
Mr B couldnt have known for sure he would pass his test in this period. And, as Ive said, the
premium was fairly low.
However, if the IPID had included what Ive suggested above, Mr B wouldnt have been
distressed when he found out he wasnt receiving a pro rata refund. And it wouldnt have
been inconvenient for him having to pay something he wasnt expecting to pay. Whereas I
think he was distressed because it came as a shock to him that he had something left to
pay. And he found this frustrating and inconvenient. In view of this I think he should receive a
small amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Collingwoods failure to
get the information in the IPID right caused him. And Ive decided that £50 is appropriate.
This means after receiving this amount Mr B will have £26.50 to pay his broker for what is
outstanding on the policy if he has not paid this already.
I gave both parties until 27 November 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision.
Mrs D responded on behalf of Mr B. She has said the broker is part of the same group as 
Collingwood and she thinks her complaint about the £40 cancellation fee charged by the 
broker should be taken into account as part of this complaint. She also feels the way the 
headline premium is calculated and shown on comparison sites, when obtaining quotes, is 
misleading.
Collingwood responded to say it welcomes my comments on the IPID and will review it in 
light of them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mrs Ds comments about the cancellation fee and appreciate the broker is part of 
the same group as Collingwood. But it is still a separate legal entity and separately regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, if Mr B wants to complain about the cancellation fee 
Mrs D will need to raise a separate complaint about this with the broker. I can also 
appreciate her comment about the headline premium, but this is also the responsibility of the 
broker, so I cannot comment on it in a decision about Collingwood.
As Mrs Ds comments relate to the responsibilities of the broker and because Collingwood 
have not disagreed with the outcome set out in my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different outcome to the one I suggested in it. Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint 
and make Collingwood pay him £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and order Collingwood Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive 
set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman