DRN-3689041
The complaint
Mrs C complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) made errors when she called 
them to make an investment in Premium Savings Bonds (PSB).
What happened
On 24 February 2022, Mrs C called NSI. She wanted to make an investment into PSBs. As 
part of their security checks, NSI tried to call her on the number they had in their records but 
the call failed. Mrs C then failed the tests on security questions and her account was locked. 
NSI said to Mrs C that she needed to complete a forgotten security form to verify her as the 
account holder - and a temporary password could then be issued to her. 
Mrs C said that NSI had made errors and so NSI should set up the temporary password 
themselves and send it to her. NSI should also pay compensation for their errors.
NSI said the call to Mrs C failed because the international number had been input wrongly 
when her account was set up in November 2021. It had a missing digit. But they said that the 
temporary password had to be set up by Mrs C by completing the relevant form  this was 
part of their processes and they said their security processes were important. They said that 
the call handler had input the answers to the security questions wrongly and this had caused 
Mrs Cs account to be locked. They paid compensation of £75.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator initially said that NSI should increase 
compensation paid to £200 (a further £125) as he believed that Mrs C answered the security 
questions correctly, and therefore NSI were at fault. He then reviewed further evidence from 
NSI and concluded that the error in answering the security questions lay with Mrs C  as she 
failed to answer two questions correctly. He issued a second view which said the 
compensation should remain at £75. During our investigation, NSI had also offered to 
backdate Mrs Cs investment to February 2022. So overall, he thought that this was a fair 
way to resolve Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NSI have admitted that the number in their records was wrong  as it included an extra digit. 
So, the security call back failed when Mrs C called NSI on 24 February 2022. So  that error 
is clear and is accepted by NSI. So, I will set that aside but will return to it when considering 
what are the appropriate remedies here.
When Mrs C called NSI, she was required to answer two security questions correctly. NSI 
have shown us evidence that she failed to do that; and so, in line with their security 
procedures, her account was locked. Im satisfied that she did fail to provide two consecutive 
correct answers, and so NSI were entitled to lock her account. The picture has become 
confused by the fact that NSI said in their final response that an error was made by their call 
handler when inputting the answers. That wasnt the case. So, we have a situation here 
where Mrs C didnt give the correct answers  so she was at fault, but equally, NSI made an 
error in their final response.
So here I must decide what the reasonable steps are to settle Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C says 
that NSI must start the reset process by sending her a temporary password  which she can 
then change. NSI say that isnt possible as part of their processes  and Mrs C must 
complete a forgotten security form and send it to them. A temporary password will then be 
sent to her. Alternatively, theyve said she could make a faster payment from her bank 
account to buy new PSBs; but online and phone access still wont be possible until the 
password reset procedure is completed.
We cant challenge NSI on their security processes  thats down to their commercial 
decision-making and risk appetite. So  I am not going to ask NSI to change that and 
therefore if Mrs C wishes to reset her password, she must follow what NSI say she must.
So, this now comes down to what I consider is the best way to settle Mrs Cs complaint. I 
have no doubt that what happened was frustrating and time consuming. But equally, NSI 
have now offered to backdate Mrs Cs investment in PSBs to August 2022 if Mrs C 
purchases PSBs before 31 January 2023.  If Mrs C wishes to take advantage of that, she 
would get the benefit of any prizes won by her investment since that time. That seems to me 
to be a fair offer by NSI  as it puts Mrs C back in the position she wouldve been in had the 
investment gone ahead. And  thats one of the principles that this service follows. And 
therefore, I dont think any further compensation is warranted.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
National Savings and Investments have made an offer to backdate Mrs Cs 
investment in PSBs to August 2022 if Mrs C purchases PSBs before 31 January 
2023. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman