DRN-2818967
The complaint
 Mrs K complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly 
charged her for damage to her vehicle at the end of her lease agreement. She would like all 
charges removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have concluded: -
The agreement Mrs K signed allows MBFS to charge for damage over and above fair 
wear and tear. MBFS has told us it is no longer a member of British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) but does still broadly follow its guidelines. And 
these standards tend to be used industry wide. The guidelines give measurements of 
scuffs and scratches that are acceptable  up to 25mm for scratches and 50mm for 
scuffs. I agree with our investigators finding that the damage to the tailgate and three 
wheels is in excess of these measurements. So, I think it was reasonable for MBFS 
to charge for these.
MBFS didnt agree with our investigators assessment that damage to the left-hand 
wheel shouldnt be charged as the scuff was less than 50mm. It pointed out that the 
size of the damage was irrelevant as the damage was to the spoke. And under 
BVRLA guidelines any damage to spokes is unacceptable. I think MBFS made a fair 
point but, as it has since agreed to waive the charge (£110) for this damage, I think 
that is a reasonable offer and I see no point in considering this further
Whilst Mrs K didnt accept our investigators view, she hasnt  made any comments 
for me to consider. As I dont find that the outstanding charges are unreasonable, I 
cant reasonably ask MBFS  to waive these charges as Mrs K originally asked 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should remove the 
£110 charge for damage to the rear left-hand wheel. If Mrs k has already paid this charge it 
should refund this charge
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman