DRN-1778238
The complaint
Mr Ys complaint arises from the terms of a pet insurance policy he took out with Allianz 
Insurance Plc. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr Y took out a lifetime pet insurance policy online with Allianz to cover his dog. As 
part of the sale process Allianz asked for details of any previous medical conditions and 
Mr Y declared his pet had suffered from an ear infection. Cover was offered but exclusions 
were added to the policy for ear disorders and skin allergies. Mr Y bought the policy and 
renewed the cover the following year.
In early 2019 Mr Y took his dog to the vets for treatment and made a claim on the policy for 
the costs. This claim was declined as Allianz said that the treatment was linked to a 
condition which was excluded under the policy. A separate complaint was brought to this 
service about the declined claim  this does not form part of this complaint. But Mr Y is 
unhappy with the way the policy was sold to him. He said Allianz didnt provide clear 
information about the exclusions it added to the policy. He said Allianz should provide him 
with a list of all the ailments that it would not cover as a result of these two exclusions.
Allianz didnt uphold his complaint. It said the exclusions were clearly listed on the 
documents sent after the inception of the policy and at each renewal. And in relation to not 
providing a list of conditions impacted by the exclusions, Allianz said this information was 
business sensitive so it couldnt provide these details to Mr Y. But it did say that anything 
that was deemed as being related to these conditions would be excluded.
Mr Y remained unhappy with this response and so the complaint was considered by an 
investigator. She found that the information provided to Mr Y about what was excluded on 
the policy was clear and that Mr Y was given enough information at the time of taking out the 
policy to make an informed decision. She also said Allianz is entitled to protect commercially 
sensitive information and she didnt think it was acting unfairly by not providing this to Mr Y. 
She went on to say that this is not something that other insurers would usually provide and 
so it would be unreasonable to expect Allianz to do something different.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as an 
alternative to the courts that is free for complainants to use. In deciding this complaint Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every 
issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr Y. Rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Im aware that this complaint has arisen following a declined claim under the insurance 
policy. Mr Y has made comments in relation to the claim which I wont be considering, as this 
has already been looked into separately by this service. In this complaint I will be 
concentrating on the information that was provided to him following his application for the 
insurance.
Allianz has to take reasonable steps to ensure a customer is given appropriate information 
about a policy in good time so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed. And this should include the policy terms, including its main benefits, 
exclusions, limitations, conditions and its duration.
Allianz has told us the policy was taken out online and that Mr Y declared that his pet had 
suffered from an ear infection. Allianz explained that, as a result of this declaration, it added 
two exclusions onto the policy. Ive seen a copy of the certificate of insurance which was 
provided to Mr Y when he took out the policy and I have seen the exclusions are listed as 
follows; 
 
-Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Ear Disorders from 07/12/17
-Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Skin Allergies from 07/12/17
When offering insurance, Allianz is entitled to consider what risk it is prepared to cover. 
Generally pet insurance policies will exclude conditions which are already in existence at the 
time of taking out the policy. But it may add exclusions for other conditions if it thinks that 
there is an additional risk of that happening. This appears to be the case here in relation to 
the skin allergies exclusion. And if an insurer wishes to exclude something I cannot interfere 
with that choice. But I have considered if this information is clear enough to enable Mr Y to 
have known what cover he was getting. Both of these exclusions explain that cover is not 
only excluded for claims relating to the condition listed but also for anything that is connected 
to it. Im satisfied that the exclusions were made sufficiently clear at the time of purchasing 
the policy. 
Mr Y has said Allianz should list all of the conditions it considers as falling under these 
exclusions  and by not providing this information it is failing to give clear information. But I 
dont agree. As mentioned previously, I think these exclusions are clear in explaining the 
restriction of cover in relation to these conditions. Im not persuaded that it is reasonable, or 
even practical, to expect Allianz to provide a list of all the possible ailments that could be 
impacted by these exclusions. 
So, when taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Allianz provided clear enough 
information for Mr Y to decide if the policy was right for him and therefore it doesnt need to 
do anything further. Ultimately if Mr Y remains unhappy with the cover available, he is free to 
search the insurance market for a policy that better suits his needs, - if he hasnt done so 
already.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman