DRN-3966543
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed reactivating his Help to Buy ISA and with the 
service he received surrounding this.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr R went into Lloyds branch to reactive his Help to Buy ISA (HISA) 
following an intended property purchase not completing. Lloyds branch staff confirmed they 
could help and asked Mr R to provide some documents to enable them to do so. 
Mr R presented the requested documents, but despite a number of further visits into Lloyds 
branch over several months, his HISA wasnt reactivated by Lloyds. Mr R wasnt happy 
about this and he was concerned he was missing out on Government contributions for his 
HISA that he should have been receiving. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr Rs complaint and acknowledged that the documents Mr R had 
brought into branch hadnt been correctly forwarded to the necessary department. Lloyds 
also explained that because the branch no longer had the copies of Mr Rs documents hed 
presented to them, Mr R would need to return to branch to present those documents again. 
Lloyds apologised to Mr R for what had happened and made a payment of £200 to him as 
compensation for any upset or inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr R wasnt satisfied 
with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They liaised with Lloyds who confirmed 
that when the HISA was reactivated, Lloyds would cover any Government contributions that 
Mr R had missed out on while the HISA had been closed and would also pay interest on 
those contributions in line with what would have been received had the HISA been active. 
Our investigator then felt that Lloyds were taking the corrective action necessary to put Mr R 
back into the financial position he would have been in had the HISA been reactivated when it 
should have been. And they felt the £200 compensation offered by Lloyds to Mr R was a fair 
amount for the trouble and upset hed incurred. Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where its considered that an unfair act has occurred  which Lloyds dont dispute has been 
the case in this instance  this service seeks to ensure that the business being complained 
about takes the corrective action necessary to restore the complainant back to the financial 
position they should be in, had the actions that led to the unfair outcome never occurred.
In this instance, this means the restoration of Mr Rs HISA to the position it should have 
been in had it been reactivated by Lloyds as it should have been when Mr R first presented 
the documents to Lloyds.
I think that Lloyds have done this here. This is because Lloyds have reactivated the HISA 
and allowed Mr R the opportunity to credit it as he would have been able to do had it been 
reactivated when it first should have been. 
Alternatively, if Mr R wasnt able to fully credit the account in this way for whatever reason, 
Lloyds offered to credit the HISA themselves with twelve £50 payments  totalling £600  
equivalent to the monthly Government contributions Mr R potentially missed out on during 
the time the HISA wasnt reactivated, and also offered to pay interest to the HISA as if Mr H 
had made the maximum monthly deposits to it during the time that he was unable to do so.
These options that Lloyds presented to Mr R seem reasonable to me and Im satisfied that 
they fulfil the remit of this service to ensure that Mr R was restored to the financial position 
he should have been in, had no error occurred. As such, I wont be instructing Lloyds to take 
any further action in this regard.
Lloyds have also made a payment of £200 to Mr R as compensation for any upset or 
inconvenience he may have incurred because his HISA wasnt reactivated when it first 
should have been. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware Mr R feels that a larger amount of 
compensation should be merited. But the £200 Lloyds have paid to Mr R here does feel fair 
to me here, given the circumstances of this complaint, and I can confirm its commensurate 
with what I might have instructed Lloyds to pay, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the impact and inconvenience of what happened 
on Mr R, but I also note that when Lloyds responded to Mr R about his complaint in 
November 2022, they explained to him that the branch no longer held copies of his 
documents and that he would unfortunately need to present these in branch again to enable 
the HISA to be reinstated. 
But Mr R didnt then re-present his documents in branch and explained to Lloyds that he 
didnt feel he should fairly be asked to do this. And while Lloyds were then able to arrange 
for copies of Mr Rs documents held elsewhere to be sent to branch so that they could be 
processed correctly, this took time. And while I appreciate that Mr R may have felt frustrated 
by these events as they unfolded, it does seem to me that some of the delay Mr R has 
experienced in regard to his HISA being reinstated could reasonably have been avoided, 
had he presented the documents for the second time as Lloyds requested. 
As such, I dont feel that Lloyds should fairly be held accountable for the totality of the time 
that Mr Rs HISA wasnt reinstated here, and Im satisfied that £200 is a fair compensation 
amount for the trouble and upset I feel that Lloyds should be held accountable for. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but it follows from that above that I feel 
that the response that Lloyds have issued to his complaint  including the offers of corrective 
action and the payment of £200 compensation  already represents a fair outcome to whats 
happened. And this means I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take 
any further action here.
I hope Mr R will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman