DRN-3670906
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr S contacted Aviva to make a claim on his legal expenses policy relating to 
an employment matter. Aviva accepted the claim and asked one of its panel firms to assess 
whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). A barrister 
advised in June she didnt think that was the case but said this was based on limited 
information. And the position might change if Mr S was able to provide further evidence in 
support of his claim. 
Aviva relied on that opinion to turn down the claim but said Mr S was welcome to submit 
further information which it would arrange for the barrister to review. Or he could try and 
obtain a positive legal assessment from a barrister of his own. It reiterated those options in 
further correspondence with Mr Ss solicitors. 
Mr S did obtain a positive prospects assessment from his own barrister. Aviva agreed to 
cover his claim from the date that was received (October 2021) and pay the cost of that 
assessment. Mr S thought cover should be in place from July when he complained about the 
original assessment. He said hed incurred legal costs of around £7,000 from then until Aviva 
did agree cover. He thought those should be paid by Aviva. 
Our investigator thought Aviva were entitled to rely on the initial prospects assessment and it 
made clear what Mr Ss options were if he wanted to challenge that. He accepted Mr S 
incurred legal costs in protecting his position but didnt think that was because of anything 
Aviva got wrong. He also explained why he didnt think Mr S was able to choose his own 
lawyer from the start of the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the initial barrister didnt have enough information because of a 
failure of Avivas process. And it was Aviva that suggested he obtain an opinion from a 
barrister of his own. He thought it was responsible for the costs hed incurred. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy. Within a section headed 
Prospects of success they say:
Our lawyer will assess the evidence and if it is more likely than not that you will:
a. recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to (e.g. being 
paid compensation or stopping a neighbour from making noise), or
b. be successful in defending a claim made against you, or
c. make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal
then we will fund the case for you.
So I think Aviva was right to initially refer the claim for a legal assessment to see whether 
that term was met. And the barrister who considered it advised, based on the information 
shed seen, that wasnt the case. I can see that barrister was appropriately qualified and I 
dont think there was any reason why Aviva shouldnt have relied on the opinion she 
reached. 
Mr S feels Avivas process meant the barrister didnt have the information she needed to 
properly assess his claim. But the initial claim form he completed did give him the 
opportunity to provide information in support of his claim which Aviva provided to the 
barrister. And the barrister set out in her assessment the information that she would need to 
carry out a fuller assessment of the claim. So thats something Mr S was aware of. 
Aviva then made clear to him it would ask the barrister to reassess the claim if he did provide 
additional information or documentation. It reiterated that in further correspondence with his 
solicitors. I appreciate it also said Mr S could seek his own opinion on prospects from 
another barrister. But thats in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. And it didnt 
say that was something he had to do; it explained it would ask the barrister who had initially 
reviewed the claim to review matters if he provided further information. 
I understand Mr S then decided to seek an opinion from his own barrister. I appreciate he 
incurred legal costs while that process was taking place. But I think Aviva reasonably relied 
on the assessment it had when dealing with his claim and gave Mr S correct advice about 
what to do in order to challenge that. So I dont think those costs have come about because 
of anything it got wrong. I think its fair it only covers his claim from the point at which a 
positive legal opinion on his claims prospects of success was provided to it (October 2021). 
Mr S has also suggested that, under the relevant regulations, he should have had the 
freedom to choose his own lawyer at the point he made his claim to Aviva. Our general 
approach is that a policyholders freedom to choose their own lawyer only applies at the 
point proceedings are necessary. Im not clear that was the position at the point Mr S made 
his claim to Aviva. 
In any case its normal practice for prospects assessments like this to be carried out by an 
insurers panel firm because the advice is intended to help the insurer decide whether to 
provide cover under the policy. And I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in referring the 
matter to a panel firm for it to consider in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman