DRN-2768604
The complaint
Mr C complains that Zurich Assurance Ltds predecessor company wrongly advised him to
take out a risky investment plan in 1998. His representative says the plan was generally
unsuitable, particularly given the unnecessary life insurance and high upfront charges.
What happened
Mr Cs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), said:
Mr C was 51 (due to retire at 60), was on a modest income and had limited pension 
provision. He did not own a property and had just £2,000 in savings
Mr C was still struggling with the death of his wife and was not given sufficient time to 
consider the recommendation 
He was wrongly advised to invest £100 a month in an unsuitable 10-year savings 
plan
Mr C had no investment experience or knowledge and simply accepted the advisors 
recommendation to split his money between the business managed fund and an 
equity fund
Mr C was not in a position to take such a risk with his money, describing his situation 
as living hand-to-mouth, struggling to pay off debts
The middle, illustrated return rate on this investment was 7.5% a year yet this was 
lower than Mr C could have got via a guaranteed savings product at the time; the 
advisor should have pointed this out
Further, this 7.5% projection was before the deductions for life cover and the high 
charges
As a widower with no dependents, Mr C had no need for the life cover
Also, as a basic rate taxpayer due to retire before the 10-year maturity date he would 
not have got any tax benefits from this provision
Zurich said Mr C had complained about the advice to take out this plan in 2008 and it had
issued a Final Response Letter (FRL) at the time (rejecting his complaint). It considered the
general suitability of the advice and said that if Mr C had been unhappy with its response he
needed to bring his complaint to this service within six months of that time, which he didnt
do. 
As such, his complaint about the general suitability of the advice had been brought too late 
and it did not give this service permission to look into it.
However, it said that the CMCs concerns about life cover was a new point not previously
raised by Mr C and it had considered this issue. It was satisfied the cover, set at the
minimum qualifying level to attract tax benefits, was a reasonable provision in an otherwise
suitable product. But it gave Mr C referral rights to bring this part of his complaint to this
service.
It subsequently confirmed to an investigator at this service that it granted permission for us
to look into Mr Cs concern about the life cover element (but not any other issues). In
response to the investigators request for further information it then said it withdrew
permission. The investigator explained that having given permission it was not to entitled to
do this.
Having considered the evidence, the investigator did not feel the complaint about life cover
should be upheld. She felt the cost of the cover did not have a significant impact on potential
returns and that the illustrations were not misleading. She wasnt convinced that Mr C would
not have gone ahead with the investment if the life cover issue and its costs had been made
clearer.
Mr Cs CMC disagreed, saying:
The illustrations did not make clear the impact of the charges and life cover costs on 
potential returns
Further, the advisor did not explain the enormous impact of the front-loaded charges 
during the first two years i.e. nothing would be invested for the first 18 months, 
leaving just eight and a half years to accumulate a potential return on his payments
As this product was designed to be kept for a minimum of just five years, the impact 
of 18 months of front-load charges would have prevented any chance of returns over 
this duration
Zurichs particularly high charges, compared to industry standards, were hidden via 
additional deduction clauses that are not shown in the main charges section
Mr C was living in rented accommodation, due to retire before this plan matured and 
had no chance of still being a taxpayer by 2008  so there would be no tax 
advantages from this unnecessary life cover
He should, instead, have been advised to invest this money in his pension; this would 
have been tax-efficient and more suitable generally
He should not have been advised to take any risk with this money; compensation 
should therefore be based on this services risk-free returns formula
When I was first assigned this complaint, I reconsidered the question of which of Mr Cs
complaints were within our jurisdiction. After several views I concluded that we could only
consider Mr Cs representatives complaint that the cost of allegedly unnecessary life
assurance when added to the other deductions (charges) made this an unsuitable
recommendation.
Mr Cs representative and Zurich accepted this jurisdiction decision. I then issued a 
Provisional Decision about the merits of this case, solely considering the need for and cost 
of life cover, and the impact of these costs when added to the other charges, saying:
Firstly, I think the overall evidence strongly suggests Mr C had no need for life cover and
was very unlikely to benefit from any tax advantages - when his investment matured  given
he would have retired and had little income. This service recognises that while many
customers (who were sold these types of policies) may not have had any need for life
cover, they generally provided a valuable tax advantage on maturity. But in Mr Cs case, Ive
seen no evidence to indicate this might have been the case. So while the cost of cover was
small, it was an unnecessary deduction and would have an inevitable impact on yield.
It is also arguable, in my view, whether the documentation made sufficiently clear the impact
of life cover, when added to the charges, on potential returns. The recommendations letter
failed to spell this issue out.
Given this, I am not persuaded that Mr C was in a fully informed position to decide whether
to choose a product involving the cost of unnecessary life cover cost. I therefore cannot
agree that this was a satisfactory recommendation or sale.
If the advisor had pointed out the cost of unnecessary life cover, it would have also beenappropriate to explain how the impact of this cost when added to the overall charges
resulted in a significant reduction in yield compared to the regulators approved illustrated
returns.
A clear and fair portrayal of the most likely return after deductions (using the regulators
middle growth forecast) would have shown that Mr C may well have been better off paying
his £100 a month into a bank savings account, thereby securing guaranteed returns with no
deductions for either charges or life cover.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr C was shown a clear and fair comparison between the
potential returns via this product, after life cover and charges were deducted, with the sort of
interest he could have got via such an account.
If he had done so, I am satisfied  on the balance of probabilities  that Mr C would not have
agreed to put his money at risk by investing in this product. I think it is impossible to be
certain as to whether Mr C, if fairly advised, would have chosen to keep his money risk-free
or invest these monthly sums in a suitably low-risk product without life cover. But as his
representative has argued he should have kept his money risk-free, I am satisfied that
compensation based on a no-risk returns formula is fair and reasonable.
I therefore currently intend to instruct Zurich to compare the return Mr C received when he
surrendered this investment with what he would have received if this money had been
placed in the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity. If this shows a
loss, it should pay this and add 8% simple interest per annum to this figure from the date of
surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Zurich disagreed, saying:
While I confirmed that I could only consider the issue of the alleged unnecessary life 
assurance (given the overall suitability issue had already been addressed), I have 
reviewed the suitability of the investment, something which Id said wasnt within the 
remit
It is impossible to be certain as to whether Mr C, if fairly advised, would have chosen 
to keep his money risk-free or invest these monthly sums in a suitably low-risk 
product without life cover but as his representative has argued he should have kept 
his money risk-free, it is satisfied that compensation based on a no-risk returns 
formula
If I concluded that the inclusion of life cover within the plan wasnt appropriate (which 
is the only matter for consideration), any compensation should be based purely on 
the life cover costs within the plan and not the whole investment
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, I note that Zurich has not disputed that Mr C had no need for life cover and was 
unlikely to benefit from it from a tax perspective. Nor has it disputed my view that there was 
no evidence that the advisor had explained this or made clear the impact of these 
unnecessary costs on the reduction in yield.
Given these two points, I am satisfied that Mr C was not in a fully informed position to decide 
whether he wanted to take out this plan taking account of the unnecessary life cover costs. 
This, in my view, is sufficient to uphold the complaint (though not sufficient in itself to award 
compensation).Given this, I am required to consider whether Mr C would have gone ahead with the plan if 
he had been made fully aware of these factors. I agree with Zurich that it is impossible to be 
certain whether Mr C would have gone ahead with this investment. But, my role and that of 
this service, is to decide on the balance of probabilities what a complainant would have done 
where the evidence indicated the advisor did not provide sufficient relevant information for 
them to have made an informed decision.
In doing so I have considered the factual information about Mr Cs situation at the time of 
advice, but I have not taken into account the suitability of the product or his representatives 
arguments on this issue.
And, on the balance of probability, I think it is more likely than not that Mr C would not have 
chosen to pay money for unnecessary life cover which, when added to the other costs, 
represented a significant reduction in potential yield.
As this was, in my view, a mis-sale and I cannot be certain what Mr C would have done with 
these monthly sums otherwise, I dont think it is appropriate to simply refund the life cover 
costs. As I explained in my earlier decision, I feel it is more appropriate to refund his entire 
contributions and add interest based on this services recommended no-risk formula.
Putting things right
 Zurich must compare the sum Mr C received when he surrendered this investment with 
what he would have received if each monthly sum had been placed in Bank of Englands 
fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity. If this shows a loss, it should pay this and add 
8% simple interest per annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar 
Assurance plc to pay compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman