DRN-2361146
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited applied interest to a purchase he 
made using his home shopping credit account. 
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr B includes his representative.
What happened
Mr B held a credit agreement with Shop Direct which permitted him at times to make 
purchases on buy now pay later (BNPL) payment terms. 
In June 2019, he wanted to make a BNPL purchase on the account with a cash price of a 
little over £200. It was agreed by Shop Direct that no interest would be applied to this 
purchase, providing the full amount was paid off within 12 calendar months. This could be by 
means of a payment in full, or multiple partial payments. 
Either way, the entire cash price needed to be repaid by 26 June 2020. Otherwise, interest 
would be payable, and it would be applied to Mr Bs account as a lump sum immediately 
after the delayed payment period ended i.e. 26 June 2020 as described. Happy with this,   
Mr B went ahead and bought the item through BNPL. 
By the end of June 2020, there was still a remaining balance left for the purchase on the 
account. As a result, Shop Direct applied interest of around £90. Mr B claimed that Shop 
Direct hadnt notified him of this beforehand, especially as hed requested paper statements 
be sent by post and hed not received any. He complained and told Shop Direct that it should 
refund the interest and also expressed that hed received substandard customer service. 
Shop Direct responded to the complaint, stating that it hadnt done anything wrong by 
applying the interest, because the cash price of the purchase hadnt been fully repaid. Also, 
it had no record of Mr B switching to paper statements before June 2020, so it had continued 
to send him online statements which had duly set out the BNPL maturity date. In terms of the 
customer service concerns raised, Shop Direct did not agree that its agents had acted 
unreasonably or failed to call Mr B as planned. Therefore, it declined to make any refund. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. Upon considering 
everything, one of our investigators didnt think that Shop Direct had acted unfairly. Shop 
Direct agreed with this opinion. 
Mr B does not agree. He maintains that he opted for paper statements and therefore ought 
to have received them. And, had he been provided with ample notification, he wouldve paid 
off the entire cash price and evaded the interest. 
Because Mr B is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there was an outstanding balance on the account as of 26 June 2020, 
which marked the expiry of the delayed payment period (also referred to as the maturity date 
of the BNPL term). Whats more, the amount of interest charged appears not to be in 
question too. Accordingly, Ive focused on whether Shop Direct made Mr B reasonably 
aware of how and when interest might be applied on BNPL payment terms.  
Its common ground that, during the application process, Mr B was notified that his monthly 
statements would automatically be provided to him online. Due to the online nature of the 
account, there was no option to choose paper statements until only after the agreement was 
incepted; at which point, Mr B could then log on to his account and change his preference to 
paper statements. That is, statements issued via post to his home address. 
Shop Direct has evidenced that Mr B did not update or change this preference until          
July 2020  so his account continued to be set for online statements up until this 
amendment. Mr B submits that he did switch to online statements shortly after taking out this 
agreement in 2019. However, there is no recorded evidence of this; nor has Mr B given a 
compelling reason why he did not question the absence of paper statements when they were 
expected. Indeed, Shop Direct emailed Mr B to notify him that a statement was available 
online on a monthly basis  which conflicted with his understanding that he would instead 
receive statements by post. 
The evidence also leads me to believe that Mr B was receiving said emails. I say this 
because, by his own admission, Mr B has received notification by email from Shop Direct 
before. For example, corresponding receipts following making a payment, along with offers 
advertised in marketing emails  and theres nothing to suggest that his email address has 
changed or was not in use during the time period in dispute. 
We also know that Mr B was able to change his preferences, because he successfully 
switched to paper format prior to the September 2020 monthly statement being issued. So, I 
see no plausible reason why he couldnt have instigated this request at an earlier point, 
because everything points towards him having had the option. 
Moreover, theres no indication that Mr B queried a problem with implementing this change 
prior to July 2020, or that he hadnt received his statements. In fact, the documentary 
evidence suggests that he first contacted Shop Direct once the interest had already been 
applied. To that end, Im also not persuaded that Shop Direct acted unreasonably in 
assisting Mr B.  
Amongst other information, the monthly statements set out the expiry of the delayed 
payment period. For example, some included notification that: Buy Now Pay Later Ending 
26 Jun 20. Your Delayed Payment Period Ends Soon. And: You Can Avoid The Interest On 
These Buy Now Pay Later Item(s), Estimated At £90.18, By Paying The Balance By 26 Jun 
2020. 
With this in mind, its my judgment that Shop Direct made the appropriate account 
information readily accessible to Mr B, particularly in reference to deferring a payment from 
the initial purchase date while still avoiding interest. 
So, I cannot ignore that; Mr B believed he would be receiving statements via post (and 
didnt); was repeatedly told by Shop Direct that hed instead received an online statement 
(yet didnt question or dispute this until after the interest had been applied); and was 
intending to avoid paying interest on this purchase  but, ultimately, didnt arrange payment 
in time to take advantage of this aspect of the BNPL terms.  Even if I were to give the benefit of doubt and accept that Mr B could not have taken on 
board the information contained in the statements  the account agreement itself explains 
the process of paying the cash value of a purchase in order to avoid interest. Due attention 
shouldve been paid to such terms to profit from the BNPL benefit. And we know this was   
Mr Bs initial plan when making the purchase, around the same time that he received the 
account terms and conditions. 
Taking this into consideration, even without reviewing his statements, it would seem that    
Mr B (at least) had constructive knowledge of how to prevent interest being charged. That is, 
there were things that he must reasonably be deemed to have known, given that he 
accepted the agreement. 
So, in all of the circumstances, I cannot safely conclude that Shop Direct misled Mr B and I 
therefore do not require it to make a refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman