DRN-2892315
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc has been communicating with him 
about his account.
What happened
Mr W has a credit card account with Sainsburys. Over 2018 and 2019, Mr W had been in 
contact about the outstanding balance on the account. In 2019, he provided Sainsburys with 
an update on his financial circumstances in writing. He also explained that he had changed 
his address and asked Sainsburys to update its system with his new address details. 
Sainsburys explained that it would need to speak to Mr W on the phone before making any 
changes to his details on its system, but Mr W explained he wasnt able to speak on the 
phone and asked for communication to be in writing only.
So, Sainsburys sent Mr W a letter with some security verification questions and asked him 
to answer these before it was able to update his account details. However, the answers 
Mr W provided didnt match the details Sainsburys held and so he didnt pass security. A 
number of letters were exchanged over late 2019 and early 2020 where Sainsburys asked 
further security verification questions, but the answers Mr W provided still didnt match. 
There was also a delay in some letters being received by Sainsburys, resulting in some 
cross-over in communication. Mr W became frustrated with how Sainsburys was 
communicating with him and said he felt harassed by the letters he was receiving. So, he 
complained.
Sainsburys reviewed matters and issued a final response letter in March 2020. It apologised 
that Mr W felt harassed by its communications, but explained it needed to complete security 
verification in full before any account changes could be made. It did, however, pay Mr W £25 
for delays in dealing with his complaint. 
Following the final response letter, Mr W sent Sainsburys a further update on his financial 
situation and requested a change to his repayment amount. There was further cross-over in 
the correspondence being sent and received. But Sainsburys ultimately explained it still 
wasnt able to communicate with Mr W about his account, or make any changes to it, until it 
could be sure it was speaking with the correct person. This resulted in Mr W asking to make 
another complaint, before ultimately referring his concerns to this service. In addition to his 
earlier concerns about the correspondence Sainsburys had sent him, Mr W was also 
unhappy Sainsburys hadnt responded to the second complaint he raised.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint was 
upheld. And, she thought it was reasonable for Sainsburys to ask Mr W to complete security 
verification before any changes were made to his account. 
Sainsburys didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr W did. In summary, he mostly 
repeated his earlier points and said the matter had a negative impact on his mental health. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case had come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain my reasons why.
Sainsburys issued its final response letter in March 2020, addressing Mr Ws initial 
complaint. But Mr W didnt bring this complaint to our service until October 2020, which is 
more than six months after the date of the final response letter. Normally, this might mean 
that we would be unable to consider it. However, as Sainsburys has consented to this 
service reviewing the concerns Mr W has raised, I dont need to consider this any further. It 
follows that my decision will focus on the merits of his complaint.
Mr W said he felt harassed by the correspondence Sainsburys sent him. He said it had a 
negative effect on his mental health and was causing him anguish and depression. I was 
very sorry to hear about how the matter had affected Mr W. In its correspondence, 
Sainsburys asked Mr W to answer some security verification questions. This was because 
he was asking to make some changes to his account and to the contact information 
Sainsburys held for him. With this in mind, I think it was reasonable for Sainsburys to ask 
Mr W to complete security verification to ensure it was communicating with the right person. 
And Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that its intention wasnt to upset Mr W in doing 
so.
When Mr W said he couldnt complete security verification on the phone, Sainsburys 
amended its process and sent the relevant questions to Mr W in writing asking him to 
respond in writing too. In doing so, Im satisfied it considered Mr Ws circumstances and 
amended its processes appropriately. 
From the information Ive seen, its clear there was some cross-over between the 
correspondence sent from both parties on some occasions. There were also some letters 
Mr W sent which Sainsburys didnt receive. Its unclear why some correspondence 
Mr W sent wasnt picked up, however Im satisfied  having reviewed the dates on the 
correspondence sent  that Sainsburys also tried to contact Mr W throughout the period in 
question, asking him to get in touch. So, whilst I appreciate Mr W wouldve been frustrated 
with the cross-over of correspondence, Im satisfied Sainsburys was trying to contact him 
too. And the fact remains that Mr W hadnt yet passed security verification, so no 
amendments could be made to his account. Overall, Im not persuaded that Sainsburys has 
treated Mr W unfairly here.
Mr W has also asked this service to investigate that Sainsburys didnt follow up on a 
complaint he had raised with it. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, or one 
of the other non-regulated activities, that this service can consider. So, although I 
understand Mr Ws strength of feeling on this point, I cant comment on it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont think Sainsburys Bank Plc needs to do any more to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Hana YousefOmbudsman