DRN-4047157
The complaint
Mr V complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) poor standard of 
service, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V damaged his phone and contacted AIG to make a claim. It accepted the claim, and a 
walk-in repair was completed within two days of the claim being made. A few days later Mr V 
contacted AIG as the camera on the phone had stopped working, so a warranty repair was 
authorised by AIG. 
Mr V attended the phone repairer store to get the phone repaired, but as they didnt have the 
necessary parts, his phone remained broken. Mr V explained that he needed his phone for 
work and when it completely stopped working, he complained to AIG
AIG said that it replaced the phone. But due to the delay in getting a working replacement 
phone, Mr V decided to purchase a new phone, which cost him £945. As well as having to 
pay £413.19, to release him from his old phone contract. 
Although a replacement phone was issued by AIG, due to two failed deliveries, Mr V didnt 
receive the phone until around a week after it had been issued. Mr V complaint to AIG was 
based on the poor service he received, namely the delays, that he had to chase for updates 
and that the first phone was faulty. Mr V wanted AIG to reimburse him the £413.19 that he 
paid to release him from the old phone contract. Plus £4.99 which was the delivery charge 
that he had to pay for the delivery that he said did not take place. He also wanted 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
In its final response, AIG accepted that the level of service that Mr V received was not to its 
usual standard. It partially upheld his complaint as it accepted that there had been failed 
repair attempts, failed collection of his device attempts, failure to keep Mr V updated and 
there were delays. 
It further said that it had classed Mr Vs device as beyond economic repair and as a result of 
this, it replaced Mr Vs device, as per the advanced exchange and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Because of these errors, AIG, offered Mr V compensation of £175, for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr V was still unhappy with this resolution and as he had been given his referral rights, 
referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
upheld it. Her view was that as there had been delivery issues with the phone, and the 
replacement had been locked to another network, it was reasonable for Mr V to purchase a 
new phone. She said that AIG had accepted that there had been errors, but the £175 offered 
wasnt fair as she didnt think it was reasonable for Mr V to be further inconvenienced. She 
recommended that AIG collect the replacement phone from Mr V and reimburse Mr V the full 
cost of the phone that he had bought. She also said that AIG should pay Mr V £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Mr V accepted the view, AIG did not. It said that the full cost of the phone was £945 and Mr 
Vs policy did not allow for replacement new phones only remanufactured phones. Further, it 
was Mr Vs choice (in exclusion of the policy terms and conditions) to purchase a brand-new 
phone. Also, the replacement device wouldve had a 24-month warranty on it and could 
possibly be repaired. And the policy didnt include specific timescales for repairs to be 
carried out. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
Our investigator hadnt appreciated that the cost of the phone was £945. So, she issued a 
further view in which she recommended that AIG pay Mr V the cost to him of releasing him 
from his old phone contract, that is £413.19, as compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. AIG still didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 February 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 28 March 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint, but for different reasons from that of 
our investigator. I understand that this is likely to be a disappointment to Mr V, but I hope my 
provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, to see what the obligations were for both 
parties under the policy. And to see if its fair and reasonable for AIG to pay Mr V £413.19, 
which would effectively compensate him for his old phone contract. 
Both parties accept that there were errors made by AIG during the claims process. Those 
errors resulted in delivery issues, delays, issue with the phone and a phone that was locked 
to the incorrect network. For the errors, AIG offered compensation of £175 for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mr V chose to upgrade his phone at a cost to him of £945. He said he did this as he needed 
a phone for his work and did not want to be further inconvenienced, given the experience he 
had with the claims process. Ultimately, he would like AIG to reimburse him £413.19 (the 
amount that he paid to release him from his old phone contract), £4.99 delivery charge and 
compensation. 
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, it provides that a replacement mobile 
phone will not be a brand-new phone and will be a like-for-like device: 
Replacement Devices:  If AIG (sic) replaces the Device, the replacement Device will be of 
the same make, model, and condition of the Device immediately prior to the incident giving 
rise to the claim.  Where AIG (sic) replaces the Device, the replacement will likely be a 
remanufactured - not brand new  Device. Remanufactured Devices may contain non-
original, third party, or unbranded parts. IMPORTANT: Please note that AIGs (sic) 
obligations under this Policy are to provide You with a replacement Device that is of the same kind, quality, and condition as Your existing Device immediately prior to the incident 
giving rise to the claim. AIG (sic) is under no obligation to provide You with a new 
replacement Device, and there is no guarantee that You will receive a new replacement 
Device. 
Mr V chose to purchase a new phone that wasnt a like-for-like phone. Whilst I can 
understand why he chose to do this, the obligations under the policy was that AIG had to 
provide a remanufactured phone. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable that AIG pay for the 
cost of the replacement phone. I say this, as the phone that Mr V bought was an upgrade 
and the policy doesnt allow for betterment. That is, the policy allows for a refurbished phone 
and not a new phone. 
Mr V would like AIG to reimburse £413.19, which was the cost that he paid to release him 
from his old phone contract. AIG said that it wouldnt think it was fair for it to reimburse Mr 
Vs old phone contract, as Mr V had chosen to upgrade his phone. And it had replaced his 
phone as per the policy terms and conditions.  
AIG also said that if a cash alternative was being offered, in line with the policy terms, it 
would offer the market value of the phone being claimed for. It said that at the time of the 
claim the market value of the phone ranged from £299 - £360. It said that it would think that 
this was a fair settlement (given the issues and that it had complied with the policy terms and 
conditions), that would be based on the then market value of Mr Vs, refurbished phone.
I cant agree that it would be fair or reasonable for AIG to reimburse Mr V the cost of 
releasing him from his old phone contract. This is because, he chose to buy a new phone 
that was an upgraded device. Also, there are no provisions within the policy, that permitted 
AIG to offer financial assistance for Mr V to be released from a mobile phone contract.  
Consequently. I think it is fair and reasonable that AIG increase its offer of compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to the average market value (at the time) of a refurbished 
phone. The average value of the same make and model was £330. 
In addition, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr V to return the replacement phone, as this 
would (according to the policy terms and conditions) belong to AIG. I wont be asking AIG to 
refund the £4.99 delivery charge, as the replacement phone was ultimately delivered to him.
I know that Mr V was deeply unimpressed with how AIG handled his claim and the 
complaint about it. I also know that he was hoping for more compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. But Ive taken all of his detailed comments into account, 
and I intend to ask AIG to resolve this complaint as indicated below. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide any other evidence or comments that they wanted me to 
consider.
AIG had nothing further to comment. 
Mr V said:
There was no warranty repair, the warranty repair only came about after parts could 
not be sourced to complete the repair. 
The process had gone on too long and he has since given the replacement phone to 
his friend, as it was of no use to him at all. He questioned where the figures were obtained for the value of the phone. He said 
that the figures were not open to the general public and this was unfair and biased 
towards insurers. 
I have carefully considered Mr Vs comments. Im aware that the warranty claim wasnt 
advised until after the parts couldnt be sourced. The initial claim was a walk-in repair.
Mr V has indicated that he is unhappy with the amount of time the process had taken and 
that he had since given the phone to a friend. But having reviewed the policy terms and 
conditions, where AIG offer a cash settlement (which is what I have recommended) the 
replacement phone belongs to AIG. If Mr V accepts the average market value of the phone 
by way of settlement which at the time was £330, then it is only fair and reasonable that the 
replacement phone is returned to AIG. 
Finally, Mr V queried where the figures had been obtained from and questioned whether 
those figures were readily available to the general public. He believed these figures were not 
available and made the valuation of his phone unfair.
AIG sent me information to consider from a website that is easily accessible to the general 
public. The website gives values of a number of different phones and more importantly Mr 
Vs old phone. 
Mr V was given the opportunity to provide any evidence that he wished me to consider, this 
evidence could have been for the value that he believed his phone was worth at the time. I 
have not received any evidence of this nature from Mr V. So, I have considered the evidence 
that was provided to me, and Im satisfied that the value of the phone at the time of its 
damage, was readily accessible to the general public. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct the AIG as outlined below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
American International Group UK Limited to pay Mr V a total of £330 by way of a cash 
settlement, on production of the replacement phone given to Mr V. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman