DRN-2879450
The complaint
Mr E complains about the level of service received from Aviva Insurance Limited following a 
theft claim against his motor insurance policy. 
Mr E wants the claim to be paid and compensation for the way Aviva handled it. 
What happened
Mr E purchased a car on 14 December 2020. Two days later, the car was unfortunately 
stolen. So, Mr E reported the theft to the police and Aviva. Mr E said the police told him the 
theft was likely carried out by a professional group and the car had a low chance of being 
recovered. 
Mr E provided Aviva with information to validate the claim. This included his driving licence, 
redacted bank statements, the crime reference number and the registered keeper document. 
Mr E said the receipt he received after purchasing the car was in the glove box of the car 
and therefore no longer available. 
Mr E said Aviva asked him for the name, address, phone number and bank details of the 
business he bought the car from. But Mr E said the seller didnt give him permission to share 
this information. 
Aviva said they couldnt accept the redacted bank statements as proof of purchase, and 
asked Mr E to send a new statement showing the transaction with the date, recipient and the 
amount paid. Mr E didnt think he should share this as he didnt have the authority of the 
seller. Aviva said they wouldnt be able to progress the claim without this information. 
Mr E wasnt happy about this. He said hed provided all the information Aviva requested 
which shows he was the legal owner of the car. He also had a key to the car and said Aviva 
were being obstructive and unempathetic. As he remained unhappy, he brought a complaint 
to this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think Aviva acted unfairly during the claim validation process by asking Mr E to provide 
evidence to validate the claim. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said hes demonstrated he was the legal owner of the car and thinks 
Aviva acted unfairly. He also said he would provide a copy of the unredacted bank statement 
to show proof of purchase to this service but wouldnt give permission for it to be shared with 
Aviva. Mr E also provided a copy of a receipt he said he obtained from the seller which 
demonstrates proof of purchase. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr E, Im not 
upholding the complaint. Im in agreement with the outcome reached by our investigator, for 
broadly similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
My starting point here is the policy terms which say: 
4. Claims procedure 
 
The person who is seeking payment under this policy shall give us all the relevant 
information, documents and assistance we require to enable any claim to be 
validated for us to achieve a settlement or pursue recovery. 
The policy goes onto give examples of what information may be requested. It isnt an 
exhaustive list, but I note it includes Vehicle documentation such as V5, MOT and proof of 
purchase. 
The above term means Aviva is entitled to request information they deem reasonable whilst 
attempting to validate a claim. I note Mr E provided several documents, but what Aviva said 
they needed to see was an unredacted bank statement which demonstrates proof of 
purchase. And if Mr E wasnt happy with sharing information, he could redact all other 
information from the statement  just not the transaction for the purchase of the car. 
Mr E argued the statement he provided shows he made payments to the seller of the car on 
the date of purchase. I appreciate that, but it doesnt show the amount. Mr E doesnt think 
how much he paid for the car is material to the claim, but I disagree. 
The circumstances surrounding the claim are that Mr E purchased the car two days before it 
was stolen. Avivas able to ask for information to validate the claim and I think the amount he 
paid for it is reasonable information to be requested in order to do this. 
I take Mr Es point that hes provided other information to show he was the registered keeper 
of the car. But given the term cited above, Ive not been persuaded Ive reason to interfere 
with Avivas claim validation process in this case. I say this because Aviva are entitled to 
request information from someone seeking payment under a policy as they see fit. And I 
think Aviva has applied the term fairly and reasonably here. 
I note Mr E has said he purchased a second car which he no longer has access to, and the 
claim remaining outstanding has caused him to experience financial difficulties. Im sorry to 
hear this. Mr E thinks Aviva should pay him compensation for the way the claims been 
handled. But I dont think Aviva acted unfairly during the claim validation process. And so, I 
dont require Aviva to do anything here. 
Mr E also provided us with a hand-written receipt from the seller. I understand he travelled 
300 miles to obtain this. This document is something Mr E would need to provide Aviva with 
to consider further as part of the claim validation process  should he wish to do so. I wont 
be giving comment to this as Im only considering whether I think Aviva acted fairly during 
the claim validation process  which I think they did. 
My decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve Mr Es dispute with Aviva  can do for 
him. My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman