DRN-4065220
The complaint
Mr A complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with InMotion Ventures 3 
Limited trading as Pivotal ended.
What happened
Mr A was supplied with two vehicles under a subscription agreement with Pivotal dated 12 
July 2022 and 30 September 2022.
When Mr A returned the cars, they were inspected for damage. The first car was returned on 
1 July 2022 and the second car was returned on 30 September 2022.
Pivotal advised Mr A that there were charges for damage of £1060.33 in relation to the first 
car and £1106.64 in relation to the second car.
Mr A complained about the charges. Pivotal said it would reduce the charges to £500.33 for 
the first car and £959.75 for the second car.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He reviewed the damage and said it fell outside 
fair wear and tear and had been correctly charged.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he didnt think the damage charges were correct and queried how 
there could be £900 worth of damage to the tyres and alloys when hed only driven the car 
for around 3 months. Mr A also said he had an insurance policy to cover damage and he 
thought he should be able to claim under this.
Mr A also said Pivotal had taken an extra monthly payment from him at the end of 
September 2022 without his consent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr A is responsible for any damage 
which exceeds fair wear and tear.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been set out by the BVLRA and these are accepted as 
an industry standard in the assessment of damage.
Ive looked at the inspection report. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage 
goes beyond fair wear and tear and that the charges have been correctly applied.
Theres no obligation on Pivotal to reduce or waive charges which have been correctly 
applied. In this case Pivotal has  as a gesture of goodwill  reduced the charges for both 
cars. I think this was a fair and reasonable thing to do. However, I have found no basis to 
ask Pivotal to reduce the charges any further.
In relation to the insurance policy, and based on what Ive seen, this doesnt cover damage 
which goes beyond fair wear and tear. Its an excess waiver policy which covers certain types 
of damage such as windscreen replacements. 
I appreciate that Mr A doesnt think there could be so much damage to the wheels because 
hed only driven the car for a short time. However, as Ive already said. Im satisfied , based 
on what Ive seen in the inspection report, that the damage identified goes beyond fair wear 
and tear and that the charges have been correctly applied. 
In relation to Mr As complaint about the September payment, I cant see that this has been 
raised in his complaint to Pivotal and theres nothing in the final response letter from Pivotal 
about it. So Im unable to look into this until Mr A has raised it with Pivotal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman