DRN-3454146
The complaint
Miss D complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, should not have agreed her credit card 
application or increased her credit limit as the lending was both unaffordable and 
irresponsible.
What happened
Miss D is represented in this complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all the submissions from Miss Ds representative as being made by Miss D. 
Miss D applied and was accepted for a credit card with NewDay in August 2013. Over the 
course of the next three years she was offered several credit limit increases. The dates of 
these are as follows:
Date Limit
Account opening August 2013 £250
1st increase June 2015 £500
2nd increase January 2016 £1,000
3rd increase June 2016 £1,600
4th increase October 2016 £2,200
In July 2021 Miss D complained to NewDay. She said she was provided with credit she 
could not afford nor was it sustainable given her financial circumstances.
In its final response NewDay said it was satisfied that each credit limit increase was provided 
to Miss D correctly and in line with its lending policy. It said it was satisfied adequate checks 
were completed to ensure these were affordable. 
Miss D wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to the service. She said NewDay didnt tell 
her about the credit increases and that it wouldnt help her when she told it she had financial 
difficulty. She said at the time she took out the credit card she was working limited hours on 
a low income and the credit limit kept being increased despite her income not matching the 
affordability. She said the debt has financially crippled her. And it has triggered mental health 
problems including anxiety. She said she had to borrow money from friends and family.
In his view on the merits of the complaint our investigator concluded that the decision to 
agree the application in August 2013 and the credit limits of July 2015 and January 2016 
were reasonable. And he couldnt identify any certain signs that suggested the repayments 
were likely to have been unsustainable for Miss D and unaffordable as a result. But he 
concluded that the lending decisions in June 2016 and October 2016 were unaffordable. 
NewDay disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. It provided additional 
comments to which I have responded below where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when Ive considered Miss Ds complaint. 
Before granting credit, NewDay was required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ds ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Miss D could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the 
risk posed to NewDay as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not necessarily the same 
as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on several factors and 
there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered proportionate. 
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks likely should be, and the lower the amount, then 
fewer checks can be made.
If I think Miss D has been disadvantaged in any way by NewDays actions, Ill go on to 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Account opening and first two credit limit increases
Date Limit
Account opening August 2013 £250
1st increase June 2015 £500
2nd increase January 2016 £1,000
In this context, I think its reasonable to say that the initial issue of the credit card with a limit 
of £250 could be considered a modest amount of credit  and so I think the checks couldve 
been less than for the higher limits.
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. From the 
application data provided by Miss D I can see an income of £22,000. The information 
suggested she was employed. There was some unsecured debt on her credit file of £8,700, 
but she was performing well on her credit commitments. She hadnt incurred any defaults on 
her accounts, and she wasnt in arrears. There was also no evidence of any County Court 
judgements. 
The application date was 26 July 2013. Miss D provided a copy of her P60 for financial year 
to April 2014 to this service which states her annual income of £14,529. Its not clear to me 
why the income at the end of that financial year was lower than the figure Miss D provided to 
NewDay in the previous July but I dont think there was anything that suggested NewDay 
needed to verify the income Miss D had reported. Miss D has said she was in arrears with 
essential living costs at the point of sale and that NewDay should have picked up on this. Im 
not disputing Miss D when she says she was having difficulty at this stage but theres no 
evidence that NewDay could rely on to suggest this was the case in the checks that it did do. 
On that basis given the low level of Miss Ds credit limit I dont think NewDay was wrong to 
approve the credit card application.
In June 2015 the limit was increased to £500 and then to £1,000 in January 2016. I can see 
that both increases were offered to Miss D proactively and made based on how Miss D was 
managing her credit card. I can see that Miss D had one late fee in September 2015 but she brought the account up to date the following month. She also exceeded her credit limit in 
May 2015 and November 2015 but each time she made a significant payment the following 
month exceeding the minimum payment necessary. This suggests Miss D was aware shed 
gone over and made a concerted effort to bring her account to order. Prior to March 2016 
NewDays external credit check with credit reference agencies was reporting a low level of 
debt, £228 in July 2015 and £221 in January 2016. So I think the checks NewDay carried out 
for each of these raises were proportionate. I dont have enough evidence to suggest that 
the borrowing was unaffordable based on Miss Ds stated income at the time of the initial 
application. And Miss D herself was responsible for providing that figure. 
Third and fourth limit increases
Date Limit
3rd increase June 2016 £1,600
4th increase October 2016 £2,200
I think at this point, June 2016, NewDay shouldnt have offered to increase the credit limit 
without further checks being carried out. I can see from Miss Ds credit file that shortly after 
the previous increase Miss D applied for more credit in the form of short-term loans and mail 
order credit. Between January 2016 and June increases there were two loans and then 
before October 2016 there were another four loans and mail order credit accounts. Miss D 
used her full credit allowance almost immediately in June 2015 and January 2016 and 
incurred a late payment fee in March 2016. 
I can see from the external credit reference agency data provided by NewDay as evidence of 
its risk and affordability check that in March 2016 Miss Ds level of debt increased sharply 
from zero to £15,000 for one particular agency. This indicates to me that either Miss Ds 
other creditors werent reporting her debt to the external agency or NewDay hadnt collected 
data from that agency previously. Either way from March 2016 NewDay was aware that Miss 
Ds overall indebtedness was much higher than previously reported. 
Had NewDay applied further proportionate checks, given the proposed credit increase was 
six times then nine times the original limit, by, for example, verifying Miss Ds income and 
examining bank statements for income/expenses it wouldve seen that Miss D was likely 
relying on loans and credit. Miss D provided copies of her P60 for 2014-2018. In 2014 she 
earned £14,500, in 2015 she earned £11,800 and in 2016 she earned £10,800. Had 
NewDay gone further and examined her income and expenditure it wouldve realised Miss D 
was no longer earning the £22,000 she stated in her initial application and was in fact 
earning substantially less. Miss Ds income during 2016 wouldve averaged £900 per month. 
Ive examined Miss Ds credit file and can see that just prior to June 2016 a large proportion 
of her income, more than 85%, was used for loan repayments. 
I think its unlikely that NewDay wouldve agreed to the increases  I dont think the checks it 
did were proportionate to the limits it offered and in Miss Ds circumstances. And I think had 
they done the checks NewDay wouldve seen that Miss D wouldve been unlikely to make 
repayments sustainably. 
In response to our investigators view NewDay said an automatic review was carried out in 
which an assessment of regulatory, risk and affordability exclusions was conducted. It said 
credit limit increase offer letters were sent to Miss D following a successful assessment. The 
increases were then manually accepted by Miss D following her receipt of them. Miss D has 
said she didnt receive these letters. NewDay provided a copy of these and Im satisfied they 
were likely sent. NewDay went on to say that automatic offers can be declined at any point prior to the actual 
increase taking place and any opt-in offer that is not accepted by the customer will be 
removed post expiration. It said alternatively, the customer can contact it to have the 
increase applied sooner and it said it withdraws offers during the offer period if a customers 
financial situation changes.
I accept that Miss D couldve opted out of the offered increases and indeed Miss D should 
accept some responsibility as I mentioned above. But I dont believe this removes NewDays 
obligations in ensuring they carry out proportionate checks to ensure the lending is 
affordable and can be repaid sustainably. 
NewDay went on to say that Miss D exceeded her credit limit twice and made two late 
payments in the 12 months before the June 2016 credit limit increase. But, it said, they were 
not consecutive and appear to NewDay to be isolated incidents. It said Miss D caught up 
with her missed payments and bought the account back under her credit limit in a timely 
manner. I can see that seemingly isolated incidents might not raise a red flag, NewDay 
increased Miss Ds credit card limit from £250 to £2,200 without doing additional checks on 
her income and expenditure and ability to repay. While Im satisfied the checks were 
proportionate for the borrowing up to £1,000, Im persuaded that at this point additional 
checks were needed. And, had they been done I dont believe NewDay wouldve increased 
the credit limits as it did. 
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Miss Ds credit limit from £1,000, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Miss D has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think 
she should pay this back.
To put things right NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua must:
1. Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,000.
2. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss D along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after June 2016 regarding this account from Miss Ds credit file. 
3. Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,000, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss D for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss D has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
June 2016 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with it to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs may require NewDay to take off tax from this interest. If it does, 
the business must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she should 
ask for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman