DRN-1874327
The complaint
Mr C complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably when considering a barristers opinion and by failing to pay his 
legal costs. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr C had household insurance which included a legal expenses insurance policy with DAS. 
He wanted to bring a professional negligence claim against his former solicitors and made a 
claim with DAS for legal assistance to do so. The solicitors first instructed to deal with the 
matter advised that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success (51% or more). 
This caused DAS to decline the claim as the policy required the claim to have reasonable 
prospects of success, but it said if Mr C got a second opinion which said he had 51% or 
more chance of success, it would consider the matter again, including whether to pay for the 
second opinion.
Mr C got a supportive second opinion from new solicitors and a barrister, but it was clear that 
the opinions had been given without sight of the file of the solicitors who Mr C wanted to sue. 
Both opinions mentioned this evidence was necessary. DAS didnt accept the claim as it 
didnt think the opinions were properly written or reasoned. Mr C then wanted to instruct 
another law firm and DAS suggested the first firm was instructed to get a second barristers 
opinion as it knew the background. Mr C complained to this service, but it thought DAS 
approach was fair and reasonable and didnt uphold the complaint (other complaints were 
time barred). Mr C also issued a protective writ to ensure his claim could continue once he 
was covered by DAS (though time ran out in the end).
Following this, DAS agreed to pay for a barristers opinion and the first solicitors were 
instructed again. The necessary evidence was obtained and the barristers opinion was that 
Mr Cs didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. DAS wouldnt accept the claim or pay 
for the fees Mr C incurred when he wasnt covered.
Mr C complained to DAS. It said it was correct to decline his claim and pointed out that cover 
was withdrawn in January 2014; all it ever agreed to fund after this date was the cost of the 
second opinion received in August 2019.
Mr C complained to this service and said his claim should be assessed as having 
reasonable prospects of success; he also wanted more of his legal fees paid. The 
investigator (who had dealt with the first complaint made to this service) said that the policy 
required Mr Cs claim to have a 51% chance or more of success to be covered and it was 
reasonable for that assessment to be carried out by a suitably qualified lawyer. He pointed 
out that no-one would wish to pay for a claim without reasonable prospects of success, and 
that insurers werent lawyers, so were able to rely on the professional advice received.
The investigator said that it was fair and reasonable for DAS to rely on the most recent legal 
opinion of 30 August 2019, whether or not Mr C agreed with it. He said that there were no 
clear factual errors within the opinion obvious to a layman and the barrister was suitably 
qualified, and reached his opinion based on the evidence (unlike the first opinions Mr C 
obtained). He also noted that DAS had gone beyond what it was required to do by funding 
the second opinion and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he didnt accept that the opinion he obtained couldnt be relied 
upon as it had been prepared without sight of the evidence, but said in the circumstances 
the matter couldnt be left. He made many comments about the merits of his claim. The 
investigator didnt change his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to DAS, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im aware that Mr C has previously complained to this service about DAS actions in 
declining his claim under the policy and refusing to pay the costs of a legal opinion Mr C 
obtained; the complaint was not upheld and Im not able to interfere with previous decisions 
of this service. I can only look at what happened once the opinion of August 2019 was 
obtained and DAS again declined the claim  this is the core of this complaint. 
Its relevant to point out that this service doesnt deal with legal disputes about points of law. 
Neither DAS not this service can deal with Mr Cs unhappiness about the legal opinions hes 
received and I note Mr C has been given the details of the appropriate bodies for such 
issues.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. It makes it clear that only 
claims with a reasonable prospect of success will be covered; this is a standard term for 
such policies and reasonable as objectively reasonable people dont want to pay for weak 
claims. Insurers arent lawyers, and its fair and reasonable for them to rely on the 
professional opinion of suitably qualified lawyers, unless theres an obvious error a layman 
can spot. One such error might be giving an opinion without sight of key evidence.
In Mr Cs case, a barrister who was suitably qualified who had the evidence before him took 
the view the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Ive read the opinion and 
theres no obvious error a layman should spot. I note that the barrister also met with Mr C, 
put to him potential weaknesses in his case, and set out his opinion in detail. Ive also 
considered Mr Cs concerns, but Im not persuaded that DAS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by relying on the opinion of August 2019.
Turning to the complaint about fees, DAS never agreed to pay Mr Cs other legal costs and 
was under no obligation to pay for a opinion which it wasnt required to do under the terms 
and conditions of the policy until it offered to do so. And as Mr C didnt provide a fully 
reasoned supportive legal opinion, he isnt entitled to reclaim legal fees in the circumstances. 
I note that DAS did tell Mr C his legal costs were not covered if he chose to incur costs more 
than once (and it would only look to cover costs if a suitable opinion was obtained), and 
reminded him that he did need a supportive legal opinion to progress and that the evidence 
was key (it also chased the solicitors involved regularly for the August 2019 opinion).My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
11 September 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman