DRN-2168791
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) gave her loans when it 
shouldnt have, which meant she experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mrs D took out several loans between 2015 and 2017. Some of these loans were taken out 
jointly with her husband at the time, who she later separated from. In January 2020 Mrs D 
complained to Sainsburys, saying that it acted irresponsibly in giving her these loans. She 
believes that this resulted in her getting into unmanageable debt. Mrs D believes that her 
worsening financial position should have been clear to them at the time
Sainsburys didnt think that it had acted wrongly when lending to Mrs D here. It said that 
there was nothing to indicate that she was getting into unmanageable debt when she applied 
for the loans. Sainsburys explained how the loan applications were assessed and was 
confident that the approval decisions were correct. 
So, Mrs D brought her complaint to this service, where one of our investigators looked at it. 
They explained to Mrs D that five of the eight loans were in joint names with another party. 
This meant that consent was needed from the other party to look at the joint loans. Mrs D 
said that this would not be possible under any circumstances. 
The investigator explained that we would not be able to review these five loans. This would 
mean looking at information specific to the other person without their consent. Mrs D 
confirmed that she understood. She asked that the whole picture be considered where 
possible in terms of what we could consider though. 
Having reviewed the matter, the investigator didnt think that Sainsburys had been wrong to 
provide the three loans investigated. Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whats fair and reasonable in this complaint, the main areas that I need to 
consider are:
Did Sainsburys complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs D would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
Did Sainsburys act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable steps so that it didnt lend to Mrs D irresponsibly. To 
do this, it was required to obtain relevant details of Mrs Ds income and spending 
commitments. The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, Sainsburys had to think about 
whether repaying the loans would cause difficulties or adverse results for Mrs D. In other 
words, it wasnt enough for Sainsburys to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back. It had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs D.
Sainsburys have provided information in respect of the eight loans taken out during the 
period 2015 to 2017. Five of the loans were taken out in joint names with another party. The 
joint party is not available to provide consent for us to look at these loans specifically. Our 
investigator has explained why we cannot look at any of the loans taken in joint names. So, 
my decision will only consider those loans that Mrs D took out in her sole name over the 
period.
Mrs D and Sainsburys have provided copies of the loan agreements in her sole name. It 
also provided details of the personal information given at the time of the applications. 
Sainsburys relied on this information to decide whether the loans would be agreed. I have 
also been given details of the repayment histories of each loan. Loans one, two and six were 
in Mrs Ds sole name. Loans three, four, five, seven and eight were in joint names.
Loan one, in Mrs Ds sole name, was for £2,000 and was requested in April 2015. 
This was to pay for home improvements. It was agreed and taken over two years. It 
was repaid, in full, in May 2015 from the proceeds of a second loan agreed. No 
interest was charged.
Loan two, in Mrs Ds sole name, was for £3,000 and was requested in May 2015. 
This was to repay the first loan and provide more money for home improvements. 
This was agreed and taken over two years. This loan was repaid within the first 
month from the proceeds of loan three  which was provided jointly to Mrs D and 
another party. Once again, no interest was charged.
Loan six, in Mrs Ds sole name, was for £10,000 and was requested in July 2017. 
The purpose was to repay other loans that were not with Sainsburys. It was agreed 
and taken over five years. This loan was repaid in early August 2017 when a further 
larger loan (seven) was agreed by Sainsburys. This was in the names of Mrs D and 
another party. The purpose was to merge existing loan borrowings. No interest was 
charged for loan six.
Mrs D told our investigator that on each occasion, the new loans enabled her to consolidate 
borrowings. She also took advantage of better interest rates being offered. The lending 
agreements confirm that each new loan was subject to a lower interest rate than the 
previous Sainsburys loan.
Each of the loan applications confirmed Mrs Ds employment details, income and outgoings. 
The information given shows the available income that Mrs D had to make the loan 
repayments, both before and after the loan was approved. This was based upon the 
information provided by Mrs D. I have checked the reports provided by Sainsburys, I can 
see that each time, Mrs Ds net income was calculated and her mortgage, finance and living 
expenses were deducted. Each time, the monthly surplus was enough to meet the proposed 
repayment with a reasonable surplus. 
As well as looking at the information in the applications, Ive seen that Sainsburys also 
checked Mrs Ds credit information. This was to get a better understanding of her wider 
financial position. Thats what Id expect of a lender here. Having done so, Mrs Ds 
applications still met its criteria for lending on each occasion.
I also see, that in the case of Loan Six, Sainsburys saw that a few payments to another loan 
had been made late. So, it performed extra checks around the affordability. It verified Mrs Ds contribution to the joint mortgage at the time, as part of its assessment. I think thats a 
proportionate response. It then considered this against the stability of her occupation and 
earnings. It also observed her long standing and well-run credit information history. On this 
basis, the loan looked affordable and it was prepared to accept Mrs Ds application.
Given the checks and assessments undertaken by Sainsburys, I cant see anything that 
would have caused it any additional concerns about Mrs Ds financial position at the time. Or 
that would have led Sainsburys to reasonably conclude that it wasnt prepared to lend to 
her.
I realise that Mrs Ds concerns relate to the number of loans given and the overall position of 
her borrowing with Sainsburys. But it is also relevant to mention that there were no interest 
costs for any of the three loans in Mrs Ds sole name.
I do understand that Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision. I would like to reassure her 
that I have carefully considered everything both she and Sainsburys have told us. Having 
completed my review though, I am not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Sainsburys Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman