DRN-3935923
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) declined his account 
application.
What happened
Mr L held a number of accounts with Nationwide. In 2019 Nationwide chose to close his 
accounts and end their banking relationship with him.
In early 2022 Mr L was able to open an account with Nationwide (which has been the subject 
of a separate complaint.) This account was closed around June 2022.
In September 2022 Mr L applied to open another account with Nationwide. Nationwide sent 
him an email the day after his application to say it had been declined. Mr L says Nationwide 
also sent him a text message accepting his application.
Mr L complained to Nationwide, and then to us. Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint 
but didnt uphold it. Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. So the complaints been 
passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L has raised a number of complaints about how Nationwide have handled his accounts 
and why they were closed, which have been considered separately. In 2019 he raised a 
complaint with us about Nationwides decision to close his accounts and end their banking 
relationship with him, and their reasons why. We didnt think Nationwide had closed his 
accounts unfairly. So I wont be reviewing this again here.
In reviewing one of Mr Ls other complaints, I explained to both parties that I wasnt sure it 
would have been clear to Mr L back in 2019 that the end of the banking relationship at that 
time meant he couldnt open any more accounts with Nationwide in the future. But I dont 
think I need to make a finding on this point here, because at the time Mr L applied for the 
account in September 2022, he would have been aware that he couldnt open any more 
accounts with Nationwide.
On 28 June and 30 June 2022 Mr L spoke to members of Nationwides fraud team about the 
closure of the account that was opened in early 2022. These calls arent recorded, but the 
call notes from the time say that the advisers told Mr L that Nationwide had decided he could 
no longer have any accounts with them. And on 30 June 2022 Nationwide wrote to Mr L, 
telling him he no longer met the criteria to hold an account with them. So I think it was made 
clear to Mr L then that Nationwide intended to decline any applications he made to open an 
account with them, including the account he applied for in September 2022.
Nationwide have explained that when Mr L applied for this account, it was briefly opened 
through an automatic process, but was then closed on the same day after a manual check. 
And they also said Mr L was notified when the account was initially opened - so I think this 
resulted in the text he says he received. However, I can see that Nationwide sent Mr L an 
email to explain theyd declined this application the day after he made it. So I think 
Nationwide did what they needed to do to let him know his application had been declined.
And looking at things overall, I dont agree Nationwide are responsible for any inconvenience 
Mr L may have experienced during the application process or due to his application being 
declined. When Mr L applied for this account he would have known that Nationwide had 
decided not to open any more accounts for him and so would likely decline it. But he chose 
to make an application anyway.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman