DRN-4003285
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was provided with inappropriate advice, or insufficient information, 
by Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc about making some 
additional pension contributions.
What happened
The advice that was provided to Mrs H was from a representative of Allied Dunbar. That firm 
is now the responsibility of Zurich, so it is Zurich that is required to deal with this complaint. 
For ease, in this decision, I will refer to Zurich as the responsible business throughout. And 
Mrs H has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But, 
again for ease, in this decision I will largely refer to all communication on the complaint as 
being from, and to, Mrs H herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
In 1993 Mrs H was aged 27 and employed as a nurse within the NHS. She had been 
a member of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) for almost 8 years. She met, 
along with her husband, with an advisor employed by Zurich. I have seen that Mrs H 
has later described that advisor as being related to her through marriage.
The advisor recommended that Mrs H should take out a pension policy in order that 
she could make free-standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to 
increase her savings for retirement. Mrs H accepted the advice and agreed to make 
monthly contributions equal to around 4% of her salary.
The advisor that met with Mrs H was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant 
they could only recommend products offered by Zurich. They couldnt actively 
recommend any other products from any other product providers including the 
in-house options (AVCs or added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at 
that time - LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). 
The LAUTRO Code said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair 
dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and 
generally take proper account of the interests of investors. It added that businesses 
should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights 
they may have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the 
representative in question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options 
would most likely be available to consumers like Mrs H. And in addition to 
highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC plan, a tied advisor needed to mention the 
generic benefits of the in-house options, including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than 
the FSAVCs
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer 
paid into either in-house option.
The advice that Mrs H was given by Zurich was provided almost 30 years ago. So it 
might not be surprising if some of the documentation from the time is no longer 
available. Ive noted that the application form Mrs H signed suggests that a fact find 
document was completed when the advice was given. But Zurich has said that 
document is no longer available. Although I accept that Zurich says the fact find 
would have provided details of, or at the least acknowledged, the OPS alternatives, 
I have no other evidence to support that conclusion.
 
So I cannot reasonably conclude that Zurich met its regulatory responsibilities when 
providing its advice to Mrs H. But that in itself doesnt mean that that complaint 
should be upheld. Id also need to be persuaded that, if Zurich had given all the 
information it should have to Mrs H, shed have made a different decision.
The background to the advice Zurich gave to Mrs H isnt as straightforward as we 
might see in other complaints. In 2003 Mrs H wrote to Zurich about changing her 
monthly contributions. And in that letter she explained that the advisor she had dealt 
with previously was related to her by marriage. So I have to consider the possibility 
that, regardless of any attractions of the AVC scheme, Mrs H would have chosen the 
FSAVC plan in order to support her relative.
Zurich has also provided us with an extract from what it says was a document 
produced by the OPS showing the maximum AVC contributions that could be made 
based on the age, and length of service, of scheme members. It says that, based on 
the age and service of Mrs H in 1993, she would have been limited to making AVC 
contributions of just 1% of her salary. And as Ive said earlier, the FSAVC payments 
she made were equivalent to around 4% of her salary.
The document that Zurich provided had little context to it. Mrs H has questioned 
whether that document applied to AVC contributions or the purchase of added years 
benefits. So we have sought further information from the firm that administers the 
AVC scheme on behalf of the OPS. That firm has provided us with a document from 
1994 that does show the OPS imposed limits on AVC contributions. And, based on 
Mrs Hs circumstances in 1993 her AVC contributions would have been limited to just 
1% of her salary.
I dont have a similar document that I can be sure was applicable a year earlier when 
Mrs H was advised to take the FSAVC plan. But I havent seen anything that makes 
me think different contribution limits would have applied. On balance, I think that in 
1993 when Mrs H was given advice by Zurich, her enquiries of the AVC scheme 
would have told her that she could only pay 1% of her salary in additional pension 
contributions to that scheme.
I think there is little doubt that Mrs H wanted to make additional provision for her 
retirement when she met with Zurich in 1993. Although the information from that meeting is limited, I have seen a document completed around a year later when 
Mrs H agreed to increase her monthly FSAVC payments. At that time the document 
recorded that a very important financial objective for Mrs H was providing or 
increasing her retirement income.
Had Mrs H decided to make payments to the OPS AVC scheme in 1993, those would 
have been capped at a maximum of 1% of her salary. The payment she agreed to 
make to the FSAVC plan was equivalent to around 4% of her salary. Given that it 
seems that payment was affordable to her (those contributions were maintained for 
almost ten years) I dont think the lower contribution to the AVC scheme would have 
been as attractive to Mrs H  making that choice would have severely restricted her 
additional retirement savings when compared to choosing the FSAVC arrangement.
So on balance Im not persuaded that, even if Zurich had met its regulatory 
responsibilities and made Mrs H aware of the AVC scheme, she would have chosen 
to reject its advice to take out the FSAVC plan. So I dont currently think that any 
possible failings by Zurich caused Mrs H to make a different decision at that time. 
Whilst Mrs H would undoubtedly have seen the costs of the AVC scheme were lower, 
the amount she could contribute each month was much less than she could afford, 
and later chose to pay. I think the opportunity to maximise her additional pension 
contributions would have been of greater importance to Mrs H.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Zurich has said it has nothing more to add. Mrs H has said that she 
doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Although I am only summarising here what 
Mrs H, and her CMC, have told us, I want to confirm that I have read, and carefully 
considered everything they have said in reply.
Initially Mrs Hs CMC said that the information Id relied on about AVC contributions being 
capped was in relation to added years benefits. But, when I sent a copy of the NHS 
pensions ready reckoner document I referred to in my provisional decision, the CMC 
provided some alternative reasoning.
The CMC accepts that the evidence suggests any AVC contributions Mrs H might have 
made would have been capped. But it now says that, had Mrs H been directed to seek 
additional information from her OPS administrator, it would have led her to consider making 
added years contributions instead. It says that Mrs H had special class status that allowed 
her to retire at age 50 with no deductions in her pension benefits. And it notes that even if 
Mrs H had retired at the normal minimum age of 55, she would have still had sufficient 
headroom to make added years contributions attractive. So it still thinks that Zurichs failures 
have caused Mrs H to lose out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mrs H and by Zurich. Where 
the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
The most recent correspondence from the CMC suggests that Mrs H now accepts that it is 
likely she would have discounted paying AVCs, even if Zurich had done nothing wrong, 
given the restrictions she would have faced on the levels of her contributions. But she now 
says, for the first time, that actually it would have been the option of purchasing added years 
benefits that would have been attractive to her.
For the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision in relation to AVCs, I cannot be 
sure that Zurich did enough to make Mrs H aware that she could make added years 
contributions instead of making the FSAVC payments. But I dont share the conclusion her 
CMC has reached that suggests that means the FSAVC plan was mis-sold and that Mrs H 
should be paid compensation.
Mrs H doesnt appear to have undertaken any research into the costs she would likely have 
needed to pay had she opted to purchase added years benefits. In my experience, at the 
time the advice was given to her, added years would likely have looked expensive compared 
to the projected returns and benefits of the FSAVC plan. And they would have needed Mrs H 
to agree to pay an increasing cost, linked to her salary, until the schemes normal retirement 
age.
Im not persuaded that would have been an attractive option to Mrs H. At the time of the 
advice she was at a relatively early stage of her career. And I have noted that in 2010 Mrs H 
told Zurich that she had needed to go into debt to enable her to continue making her pension 
contributions. Even at the time she agreed to make the FSAVC payments the advisor noted 
that Mrs H didnt have sufficient disposable income to allow her to consider purchasing 
income protection benefits, or to allow her husband to make increased pension 
contributions.
And I still cannot reasonably discount that Mrs Hs relationship, through her husband, with 
the financial advisor would have been a significant factor in her choice of additional 
retirement provision. Whilst I entirely accept that the relevant regulations meant that the 
advisor couldnt ignore the rules at that time, I dont think that leads to a conclusion that their 
relationship wouldnt have influenced Mrs Hs decision.
So although I cannot reasonably conclude that Zurich met its regulatory responsibilities 
when selling the FSAVC plan to Mrs H, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that any failings caused Mrs H to make a different decision. Taking the FSAVC plan would 
have been attractive to her, both to support her relative and in allowing greater contributions 
to be paid than under the AVC plan provided by the OPS. I havent seen enough evidence to 
make it reasonable to conclude that purchasing added years benefits would have been more 
attractive to Mrs H at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman