DRN-4109384
The complaint
X complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) refuses to refund money she lost 
to an investment scammer.
X is represented by a third party but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as having 
come from her alone. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise key 
events here. 
Around 2021 X was looking for investment opportunities online and came across a company 
Ill call F. She was persuaded to invest after receiving contact from one of Fs 
representatives and she also felt Fs website was sophisticated. She made the following 
debit card payments towards the scam (which were made to a crypto exchange account in 
her name before being sent to the scammer):
1. 29 October 2021 - £211.89 
2. 2 November 2021 - £2,000 
3. 26 November 2021 - £5,000
X realised shed been scammed when a representative of F made an unauthorised payment 
attempt using her card details and this payment was blocked by the bank. 
X contacted Halifax to try to recover her payments but she says she didnt receive any 
assistance. She later complained that it didnt do enough to protect her from financial harm. 
Halifax issued its final response declining to refund X, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think Halifax could have reasonably 
known X had fallen victim to a scam. He also felt X wasnt honest on a loan application that 
was used to facilitate the third payment. He therefore didnt think Halifax acted unfairly by 
declining to refund X. X didnt agree and refutes lying to the bank about the real purpose of 
the loan application and asked an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
At the time X made her payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
reasonably have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly 
unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) expectations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
All of the payments were sent to an account in Xs name. It was from that account that she 
purchased crypto and sent the crypto to the scam wallet, so Ive factored this into my 
decision. 
The first two payments
I dont think I can fairly say that the first two payments were particularly large, unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account. They werent all that unusual when considering her previous 
12-month account spend. For example, X made a one-off undisputed payment of over 
£2,000 in February 2021. I dont think either payment was all that unusual for Halifax to have 
reasonably suspected that X could be falling victim to fraud or a scam. 
The third payment
Like our investigator, I agree the third payment was a large one. And the largest single 
transaction X had made in the 12 months leading up to it. But, I dont think this transaction 
was so unusual or so suspicious that Halifax ought to have reasonably suspected X could 
have been falling victim to a scam. 
The day before the payment, X applied for a personal loan with Halifax of the same amount. 
She told Halifax the purpose of the loan was for home improvements and even though she 
used the loan to purchase crypto the following day, she maintains the original purpose was 
for home improvements. I dont need to make a conclusion on what I think Xs true intention 
for the loan was. But I do think Halifax were reasonably aware that X applied for a loan with 
the intention to use the proceeds of that loan shortly after the loan funds credited her 
account. 
I dont think I can reasonably say that X using the loan proceeds to pay a crypto exchange 
ought to have been an automatic red flag to Halifax at the time. There were and are still 
legitimate crypto transactions, so I dont think I could reasonably have expected Halifax to 
stop all payments just because they were going to crypto exchanges. I also dont think I can 
reasonably say that Halifax ought to have monitored whether the proceeds of the loan were 
used for the exact reason they were applied for, I think this is impractical for a large bank 
that lends on a regular basis. And even though I think it was a large sum of money, it was a 
single transaction, made several weeks after the previous payment in dispute. It was to the 
same payee as transaction two (with no prior concerns raised). The transactions on the face 
of it dont indicate the pressure to pay very quickly  which could be the sign of a scam. I 
dont think there were enough factors that made this payment so unusual or so suspicious 
(in light of what Halifax reasonably ought to have known) that I think Halifax should have 
paused the payment to question X before letting it through. 
I therefore dont think Halifax acted unreasonably for allowing the payment to go through, not 
least because I think it would have reasonably expected X to use the proceeds of her loan. 
And I dont think a one-off payment of £5,000 would have appeared all that unusual to 
Halifax under the circumstances. And so, taking all of this into account, I dont think Halifax missed an opportunity to prevent 
Xs loss.
Recovery
Ive thought about whether Halifax did what it ought to have done, when trying to recover the 
funds for X. 
X paid funds to an account in her name. From there, she purchased crypto and moved it 
onto a wallet address of her choosing (albeit upon the scammers instructions). If Halifax tried 
to recover the funds, it could only have tried to recover funds from Xs own account and it 
appears she would have moved all of those funds on and if not, they would be in Xs control 
to access as and when she wishes. Ive seen no record of Xs branch visit or repeated 
telephone contact with Halifax in the way she describes. But even if Halifax had reviewed 
her request to recover her funds sooner, I think the outcome wouldve been the same. I dont 
think Halifax could have recovered Xs payments for the reasons Ive explained, so, I cant 
say that Halifax acted unfairly by not attempting to recover Xs funds when she reported the 
scam.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Xs loss, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman