DRN-3058492
The complaint
Mr U has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has undervalued 
his car following a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr Us car was stolen and recovered but was deemed a total loss. Admiral offered Mr U 
£7,385 as a total loss settlement.
But Mr U wants Admiral to pay what he thinks the car is worth. Mr U says to get a like for like 
replacement it would cost him a lot more than whats being offered. Hes supplied a large 
number of online advertisements and trade guide valuations to support his argument.
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator felt Admiral hadnt 
made a fair offer and suggested it increase its offer to £9,373.33. 
But Admiral doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr U is unhappy with the valuation that Admiral has placed on his car. Mr U has suggested 
that the valuations Admiral relied on didnt include the correct engine size. He says Admiral 
has used a 2.5 litre engine instead of 2.0 litre and hes suggested the mileage used was too 
high. Mr U also states the colour of his vehicle, a very specific blue should be taken into 
consideration as it alone would influence the price. 
Our approach is to consider whether Admiral has settled Mr Us claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the 
policy and the offer made in order to determine whether Admiral have acted fairly. I can see 
in the event the car cant be repaired, Admiral wont pay more than the market value of the 
car at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Our usual approach to complaints about car valuations is similar to Admirals and that is to 
look at motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as 
any extras and the mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, 
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends the circumstances and on the value 
of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value. But adverts can be indicative of whats really going on in the 
market. And they can be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare model or if they 
strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Us car at the time of the incident and 
they produced the following valuations: 
Glasss £7,210, CAP £7,925, and Cazana £12,985.
Admiral has offered a value of £7,385. In its final response it provided the trade guide 
valuations its used, Glasss £6,774 and CAP £7,385. Im satisfied these valuations are 
based on the correct engine size and mileage and Admiral says it has offered the highest 
valuation it found. Admiral however has also submitted a printout of both CAP and Glass 
valuations. And I note the figures are different, and closer to the figures Ive listed above. But 
Im going to assume this is because the valuations may have been run again at a later date. 
And we are aware that this can sometimes give a different result due to the inclusion of 
additional sales data. 
Admiral says the figure from Cazana is substantially higher than the CAP or Glass valuation. 
And this would suggest the value from Cazana is an outlier and therefore should be 
discarded in line with Financial Ombudsman Service approach. Admiral says the car is not a 
classic or rare car and as such including the Cazana valuation is unreasonable.
As a service we generally use two approaches to provide a fair value using the data from the 
trade guides alongside all other evidence. We utilise as many trade guides as we can and 
use the values provided. If the values vary greatly, we might think its reasonable to ignore 
any outlying valuation. Or alternatively we might take the average of all the valuations weve 
received. But the key is that we use an approach that feels fair. So, if theres varying 
valuations presented, we dont just look at the guides and decide. Wed look at everything 
thats been provided on the file, engineers comments, trade guides, and even 
advertisements, to ensure the consumer is getting a fair valuation for the vehicle. 
In this case Admiral didnt use Cazana. But its an available trade guide, so I will be 
considering it. Further to this Im not convinced that the Cazana valuation, even though its 
quite different to the CAP and Glasss figures, is such an outlier that it should be discounted.
I agree with Admiral that isnt a rare or classic vehicle. But its not a standard vehicle either, 
and this vehicle has an appeal to a very specific genre of the car buyers market. As such we 
cant just value it based on the trade guides alone. Its only right that we look at all the 
evidence weve been provided with. 
Mr U has submitted a lot of valuations, and from what I can see most are in the form of 
advertisements of a similar model of this specific vehicle. But thats as far as the similarity 
goes. The mileages submitted are vastly varied and I can see there is a basic model which 
commands prices similar to what the trade guides are telling us and various modified 
versions of this vehicle which can command sums up to triple the trade guide prices. As the 
advertisements are so varied, I wont put much weight on them when making my decision. But what the advertisements do tell me is that the spec, condition, mileage, and colour all 
have a major impact on the valuation of this model. 
The Cazana valuation tool provides us with specific data of vehicles of similar specification 
that have sold in the UK. And from this information I can see that similar vehicles, from this 
year of manufacture, with mileages ranging from 80,000 to 100,000 all sold for between 
£8,000 and £13,000, in recent months. As such, I shouldnt discount Cazana, as this specific 
guide is supported by real prices that are representative of the car that Mr U owned and as 
such is not an outlier.
I also want to take into account the specific history of the car, as in this type of car this is 
very important. By all accounts this car had a clean MOT, a full-service history, no pre-
accident damage and had a substantially lower than average mileage. According to the 
notes provided by Admiral it didnt have any modifications or optional extras.
So, I think I should look at everything we have and not just two specific trade guides. The 
criteria that drive the price are so varied, and some very specific criteria such as age, 
mileage, or additional extras play a big part in determining the price of this vehicle. Because 
of this it makes sense to rely on all the guides and also use the data provided by Mr U to 
make sure the valuation is fair. 
But I need to stress, its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Us vehicle. 
And its also not a case of just applying an approach and sticking to it. Its our role to make 
sure Admiral is giving Mr U a fair valuation for his vehicle whilst taking into consideration all 
the evidence thats been provided and then applying the right approach. And based on the 
information provided from both parties, including our own findings, Im satisfied the Cazana 
valuation is not an outlier, and I should include it in my consideration. Im satisfied the three 
trade guide valuations we have are reflective of the market value at the time the car was 
deemed a total loss. So, I think the fairest approach would be to take the average of the 
three trade guides, which in this case is £9,373.33. This is the amount Admiral should pay 
Mr U for his car (less anything already paid and any applicable excess). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
pay Mr U £9,373.33 for his car less any applicable excess. If Mr U has already 
received a payment, Admiral should pay the difference up to this amount.
pay 8% simple interest on the amount owing to Mr U from the date the claim was 
made to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman