DRN-3004688
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that 3J Finance Limited (3J) will not cancel a fixed sum loan agreement 
she took out to fund an online educational programme for her son, with a supplier that I will 
call X.
When I refer to what Ms D has said, and 3J have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
 
What happened
In April 2019, Ms D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with 3J to pay for additional 
tutoring for her son. This was during a meeting at her home with a sales representative from 
X. The representative visited her at home to talk about the online education programme 
which, in summary, consisted of online tuition for maths and English. The programme also 
provided ad-hoc support on a one to one basis from a tutor over the phone, if a child needed 
further help with a specific online module. The total amount of credit was £5,295. Ms D paid 
a £100 deposit, and the monthly instalment of £88.25 were repayable over 60 months. 
Ms D says she only signed up to the online education programme because she was misled. 
She says there was no mention of the costs just a direct debit amount of approximately £88 
every month until she no longer wanted the online education programme. She says that the 
sales representative told her that she could cancel whenever she wanted. Ms D says that 
English is not her first language and she didnt understand what she was signing up for. She 
says she just believed that it would help her son, but she says that whenever he calls a tutor 
he is just referred back to the videos, so she says she is not receiving what she was 
contractually promised by the sales representative. She says the salesperson also doesnt 
return her calls. 
In addition, Ms D was unhappy with the equipment that was provided, as she says that it 
doesnt want to connect to her internet hub. She says that even though she has called Xs IT 
department on two occasions, the equipment is still not working. She says she was told that 
she needed a new internet hub. But even though she did get a new one, she says the 
programme equipment is still not connecting to her internet. 
3J say that all the evidence available shows that everything was made clear to Ms D. They 
say there was no indication of any kind that she could not adequately understand the nature 
of what she was entering into. They say the paperwork which she signed electronically made 
clear what Ms D was opting to purchase, including all associated costs, and, they say, she 
was sent a copy of this paperwork when she signed it. They say that several of the forms 
that she initialled and signed stated that it was a loan agreement that she was entering into, 
and this documentation clearly said that she only had 14 days to cancel. 
3J say they have discussed the matter with X, who said that Ms D originally expressed 
interest online in knowing more about the educational programme and had requested further 
information, so X telephoned her to discuss matters further. 3J say this communication was 
in English, as requested. During that telephone conversation, an appointment with one of the 
sales representatives was arranged and 3J say this was by way of mutual agreement and in 
English. 3J say that had there been any issues with Ms D understanding English it seems 
strange that Ms D would have proceeded with organising the meeting with the sales 
representative and that she did this without necessity or obligation. They question why Ms D 
didnt arrange for an adult English speaker to be present with her during the sales visit, if 
English was an issue for her. 
3J have also questioned why did Ms D sign and initial so much paperwork if there was a 
language barrier problem, and why did she wait five months before raising the issue. They 
say Ms D, shortly after the sale, had spoken to the training company during a proactive 
customer liaison call, and she confirmed that she was extremely pleased with the 
programme so far, and that her sons skills had improved already. They say she also agreed 
and provided a review on a consumer review website, where she gave the training company 
top star rating, and said that X was excellent, and that she would recommend it to anyone. 
3J say that Ms D signed a document that says she understands her role in ensuring that, in 
order for her family to gain most of the educational program, her child should allocate 
adequate time each week to work on the programme, and that she should encourage and 
motivate them to use it. They say Ms D was required to sign each document in turn. They 
say customers have as much time as required to read through each of the documents, and 
once all the documents have been signed, the system uploads all the documents and inserts 
the signatures, so that is why they appear to be signed all at the same time. And they say 
that she was given plenty of time and opportunity to read through each statement and each 
document before she executed her signature. 
Ms D was not happy that she couldnt cancel the online education programme, so she 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he 
thought that Ms D provided a credible and consistent explanation of what happened during 
the sales process. He was persuaded that Ms D had relied on what Xs representative had 
told her about being able to cancel at any time. And the investigator believed X had failed to 
make it clear to Ms D that she was signing up to a loan which she would be unable to cancel 
or get out of, if she wanted to.
3J disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2021. In the provisional 
decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and the arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.Ms D paid for the educational programme through a fixed sum loan. Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, Ms D can bring a claim 
against 3J for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  X. Im satisfied 
those circumstances apply in this case. 
Also, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making X an agent of 3J 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms D entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communications Ms D had with X. This means 3J is responsible for 
the acts or omissions of X in relation to the sale of the loan to Ms D. In other words, 3J can 
be held responsible for the things X did or said, or didnt do or didnt say, during the sales 
process.
I think the documentation Ms D has signed makes it clear that she had 14 days within which 
she was allowed to cancel the agreement, and she couldnt do so beyond that time. When 
someone signs a document, it is generally held that they have taken the time and have read 
and understood what they have signed. But Ms D maintains she was told she could cancel 
the education programme at any time, if she was not happy with it. She says she was misled 
into entering into the programme and the credit agreement. She says there was no mention 
of the costs just a direct debit every month until she wanted it to stop. She says that English 
is not her first language and she didnt understand what she was signing up for. She says 
she has a tougher time understanding written versus spoken English.
3J say that our service in other cases mentioned that it is considered safer in law to refer to 
tangible, contemporaneous evidence from the time not only as to what happened but also as 
to credibility. And they believe that we should not put so much reliance on Ms Ds testimony. 
But our decisions do not create binding precedents. Whilst there may be similarities between 
complaints, all complaints are considered on their individual facts and merits. Here, I make 
my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable considering all the circumstances of 
this particular complaint. And while what has been written and signed generally represents 
what was agreed by both parties in a contract, that isnt always the case. 
Ms D and Xs sales representative had verbal discussions during the sales process, and it is 
during these types of discussions that misunderstandings can occur. So, it is possible that 
incorrect or misleading information was provided during the sales process before Ms D 
entered into the loan agreement with 3J. I do agree with 3J, that I need to take the 
paperwork into consideration, but I also need to take into account whether Xs sales 
representative provided clear information to enable Ms D to make an informed choice before 
she agreed to enter into the loan agreement. And I dont think the credit agreement is 
necessarily always an accurate description of the conversations that were had before the 
contract was entered into.
In arranging the loan between Ms D and 3J, X was acting as a credit broker. Credit broking 
is a regulated activity, and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what they 
expect a responsible credit broker to do. This is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). As I think X was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the credit agreement, so its 
something I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations,
which include explanations of the following things: 
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to
foresee;
d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make 
payments under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, 
where applicable and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the 
circumstances of the customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-
payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, 
inhibitions), and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not 
redeemed; and
e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided 
under CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must:
2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product they wish to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to 
consider, the terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire 
agreement before entering into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which they expect financial firms (including X 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
7 Communications with clients 
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.  Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how X sold the 
education programme. This is because I think most likely the nature of this product and the 
way it was sold is likely to have influenced Ms Ds assumptions about how she was going to 
be paying for it. The education programme was positioned as an affordable, online 
alternative to private English and maths tuition for a child. I think private tuition is typically 
paid for by the hour, with potential discounts sometimes offered for bulk-bookings. In my 
experience, and based on my further research, online-based services in general are usually 
offered on a subscription basis that can range from one month subscription up to a year. X 
itself appeared, based on statements on its website, and from other documents I have seen 
from the company, to have offered a monthly subscription or a pay as you go service as an 
alternative to the Lifetime Licence model which was sold to Ms D.
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence seems to operate in a different way as the
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment, and this gives the child access to the 
education programme for the duration of their schooling, up to GCSE level. But because a 
substantial payment is required for this type of a programme, the applicant often had to take 
out a loan to cover the costs. These loans are not cancellable. So, this means that after the 
14 day cooling off period passes, a person cant cancel and are committed to repaying the 
loan. I think this is an unusual model for a childs tuition educational programme as it offers 
no flexibility, and I dont think it is uncommon for children to change tutors for a variety of 
reasons. 
Also, I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering either face to face or 
online tuition for their children. Sometime prior to signing up to the online education 
programme, Ms D had a private tutor for her child, but she is no longer using that persons 
services. She has also mentioned to us that because she was told she could cancel anytime, 
she agreed to the monthly direct debit payments as she thought that if she is not happy then 
she will cancel, and go back to having a private tutor for her child. This suggests to me that 
flexibility was important to her as she was trying and testing different ways to provide extra 
support for her son. 
Taking the above into consideration, I think, most likely, when a parent makes an 
appointment with a representative from X to learn more about the companys education 
programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think its 
unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment paid 
for, up front, by a loan. Considering that X was offering a very different scheme with long 
term financial implications, I think this needed to be made very clear to Ms D.
Ive also thought about that fact that the FCA not long ago has written to credit brokers 
outlining some key risks FCA believed they should consider and act upon. The FCA said 
they had found firms brokering credit agreements, with third party credit providers who had 
poor oversight of staff, leaving sale practices unchecked, and potentially increasing the risk 
of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. The FCA specifically mentioned 
brokers who sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer 
harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a commission-
basis. The FCA did not mention specific firms, but Ive considered that in Ms Ds case a 
representative of X was brokering a credit agreement with a third party credit provider in 
order to sell her a product, in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as 
potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, including mis-selling. 
While the FCA has highlighted the above as concerns, that does not automatically mean that 
Ms D was misled into signing the paperwork in question. So, Ive considered all other 
available evidence to determine whether or not I think most likely Ms D was misled by X. I 
reviewed the contemporaneous documents which were signed and initialled at the time of sale. Ive thought about what Ms D has told us about her recollection of the sale, and what 
we know about the product she ultimately bought. 
Ive considered 3Js comments that Ms D was given plenty of time and opportunity to read 
through each document before she executed her signature. Ms D signed electronically the 
finance agreement as well as the Self-Declaration Letter of Affordability, and the Proforma 
Enrolment Application. These forms were electronically signed, all time-stamped at 17:32. 
She also electronically signed a Customer Agreement / Order Form, but there was no time-
stamp on this form. In addition, she initialled 10 statements on the Customer Clarification & 
Satisfaction Form and signed this form by hand. The first statement on this last mentioned 
form, states that Ms D has chosen to pay for her Lifetime Licence by way of Finance. The 
second statement goes on to set out the overall cost of the programme, including the 
number of monthly instalments. Statement three confirmed Ms D had electronically signed a 
finance agreement, assuming she had chosen to pay by finance. Statement four explained 
there was a 14-day cancellation period, and statement five confirms she was buying a 
Lifetime Licence and that there was no trial period. And, statement six explained that X 
provided the product, but if Ms D had chosen finance as her payment method, this would be 
provided by a third party or a company associated with them.
At first glance, I think someone who had read the form carefully would not find it particularly 
unclear, although I do think some parts could have been made clearer. This form does not 
call the loan a loan, Finance is a word which is almost identical with loan in the world of 
lending, but it is not the ordinary meaning of the word. So, Im not convinced that all 
consumers would immediately understand finance to mean a loan, if they had entered the 
sales process with an assumption that they would be paying on a monthly basis where they 
can cancel at any time, and especially individuals like Ms D, who may have language 
barriers as well. 
Like I mentioned earlier, I think when someone signs a document, it is generally held that 
they have taken time and have read and understood what they have signed. But I dont think 
this means that Ms Ds complaint is one without merit automatically. CONC sets out that the 
sales representative had a duty to ensure Ms D had enough information about the credit 
agreement  as I set out above. The representative also needed to make sure that Ms D had 
enough information about the setup of the credit agreement before she agreed to enter into 
the education programme and the credit agreement. And, like I mentioned before, what is 
written doesnt always reflect what was said during conversations leading up to the point of 
signing, and it is during these types of discussions that misunderstandings can occur. So, it 
is possible that incorrect or misleading information was provided during the sales process 
before Ms D entered into the loan agreement with 3J. So, Ive also taken into consideration 
whether there is anything in the paperwork or elsewhere that might support her version of 
events, including the contact notes provided by 3J which contain summaries of the 
conversations Ms D had with X.
Ms D says that during the sales meeting there was no mention of the finance company - 3J, 
she was just told that it would be around £88 a month direct debit, which she could cancel at 
any time if she was not happy with the online education programme. She says she agreed to 
the monthly payment, and she has initialled and signed different documents without 
understanding that she was entering into a longer financial commitment; one she could not 
cancel. She says she told the representative that she has a tougher time understanding 
written versus spoken English, but she said she was assured by him that she would be able 
to cancel anytime. She says she only found out that this was a long term commitment when 
she called X in September 2019 to cancel, and that is when she, for the first time, found out 
that she couldnt.  I think Ms D has been consistent in what she has told us about what happened during the 
sales process, and Ive found her testimony to be plausible and persuasive. Her part of the 
testimony that stipulates that she thought she could cancel anytime is also supported by the 
contact notes provided by 3J, which contain summaries of the conversations Ms D had with 
X. From these I can see that on 11 September 2019, Ms D says that she would like to give 
her notice to cancel. The person speaking to her explains that it is too late to cancel as she 
had 14 days from purchase date to do so. But Ms D goes on to say that she was told, during 
the sale process, that she could cancel by giving notice any time. In the notes I can see that 
during the call Ms D says that it would not be fair if she has to give notice now but she has 
to pay two months, and a few more times during that call she keeps asking when she can 
actually cancel. So, given this I think most likely Ms D didnt know that she would not be able 
to cancel at any time, and I think most likely she was not aware of the fact that she entered 
into a long term commitment. This is also supported when during that same call Ms D was 
surprised to find out that she is in a commitment for a period of 60 months. So, I think most 
likely up to this call she still wasnt sure of what the actual financial arrangements were.
Ive also thought about the sales process in a wider context, as I have seen some of the 
training material which most likely would have been provided by X to their sales 
representatives, and which, as I understand, was current at the time Ms D made her 
purchase. When covering how to explain the financial aspects of the sale, X doesnt refer to 
the word loan anywhere in these training materials. I think the focus seems to have been on 
setting an affordable monthly payment and, it seems to me, the wording is formed in such a 
way as to avoid making the arrangement sound like a loan. In addition, I think most likely 
some of the material could be even interpreted as encouraging representatives to rush 
through the explanations of the financial arrangements. But I think that even if the material 
had been perfectly clear, this doesnt mean that each sales representative followed the 
script. As I mentioned earlier the FCA in their letter to credit brokers did say that oversight of 
salespeople selling loans to purchase goods or services at consumers homes is difficult, 
and certain incentives (such as commissions or bonuses) can increase the risk of poor 
consumer outcomes further. This doesnt necessarily mean that Ms D must have been given 
incorrect information during the sales process, but it is part of the overall background and 
context of the sale, so Ive considered it along with everything else mentioned above. 
Overall, Ms D has said throughout that she thought she would be able to cancel the 
programme at any time. Given what I know about what Ms D wanted to use the online 
education programme for, I think most likely she would not have entered into the programme 
and the credit agreement if she had known it was a five-year commitment. I think Ms D has 
been consistent in what she has told us about what happened during the sales process, and 
Ive found her testimony to be plausible and persuasive. So, taking everything into 
consideration, I dont think the sales representative of X explained everything to Ms D as 
clearly as he should have done. And, I think Ms D has lost out as a result of what has 
happened. 
Ms D has had a benefit from the online education programme because her son did use it for 
approximately five months. So, I think its fair she pays for some of the usage. I know Ms D 
says there were various issues with the programme, such as lack of academic support from 
X and technical difficulties with getting the equipment to work with her hub, so Ive thought 
about whether this affects the amount she should pay.
Ive concluded that Ms D  though clearly unhappy with the quality of the content and
services offered by X  hasnt provided enough evidence that the content fell below a 
satisfactory standard, or that they have failed to provide their services with reasonable care 
and skill. I say this because from the contact notes provided by 3J, I can see that it was 
mentioned that her son had looked at the English work in June, but had not attempted this. 
So, it seems that this content was available and most likely her son was aware that it was there. It also seems that even though there were issues with the equipment, her son was still 
able to access the maths material through other means. And even though Ms D says that 
the tutors on the help line could have been more helpful, Ive seen from the contact notes 
that the teachers were advising her son to watch the tutorial and do the practice first, and 
then, if he was still unsure, to call back for help. I can see that her son was getting some 
assistance, and, based on the evidence I have, I cant say most likely this fell below a 
satisfactory standard.  So overall, I dont think the amount she should have to pay should be 
reduced on account of the way the programme was delivered by X.
Putting things right
I think 3J should take the following actions:
1. End the loan agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. Cap Ms Ds liability under the loan to the sum of the repayments which she would 
have owed up 10 September 2019, when she first contacted X or 3J to cancel;
3. If Ms D has paid more than her capped liability, refund to her any payments she has 
made above the cap;
4. Refund the £100 deposit she has made;
5. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3 and 4 above from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
6. If Ms D has paid less than her capped liability, then 3J must arrange an affordable 
plan with Ms D to repay any outstanding balance up to the cap;
7. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file in relation to the loan;
8. Arrange with Ms D for the return of anything she received under the contract with X, 
such as any free equipment, and the ending of access to any digital content or 
services.
If 3J considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it
should provide Ms D with a certificate showing how much they have taken off, so she can 
reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 20 August 2021.    
Ms D replied and accepted my provisional decision.
3J have replied saying they are disappointed, they reiterated some of the points they have 
made previously and concluded that they have nothing further to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings.3J, in response to my provisional decision, have said that they feel disappointed because 
they say my provisional decision appears to be based on unsubstantiated verbal testimony 
and not tangible, and therefore not credible, evidence. They go on to say that It appears that 
a company cannot rely on contractual and legally binding paperwork (signed by a customer 
of their own free will and had sufficient time to review and change their mind should they so 
wish or indeed to raise questions about what they had signed) especially if a customer is
prepared to provide a statement that leads them to the outcome they are seeking. 3J 
concluded their response by saying that they have provided all that they can, and they say 
they have nothing further to add.
I have already addressed these points in my provisional decision, but I want to reiterate that 
each complaint is considered on its individual facts and merits. And that I make my decision 
based on what I think is fair and reasonable, considering all the circumstances of this 
particular complaint. Like I mentioned in my provisional decision, I think Ms D has been 
consistent in what she has told us about what happened during the sales process, and Ive 
found her testimony to be plausible and persuasive. Also, Ive taken all the circumstances of 
this particular complaint into consideration not just the testimony, and overall, like I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I dont think the sales representative of X explained 
everything to Ms D as clearly as he should have done. And, I think Ms D has lost out as a 
result of what has happened.
In view of the responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different
conclusion to what I reached in my provisional decision (copied above).
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct 3J Finance Limited to take the following actions:
1. End the loan agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. Cap Ms Ds liability under the loan to the sum of the repayments which she would 
have owed up 10 September 2019, when she first contacted X or 3J to cancel;
3. If Ms D has paid more than her capped liability, refund to her any payments she has 
made above the cap;
4. Refund the £100 deposit she has made;
5. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3 and 4 above from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement;
6. If Ms D has paid less than her capped liability, then 3J must arrange an affordable 
plan with Ms D to repay any outstanding balance up to the cap;
7. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file in relation to the loan;
8. Arrange with Ms D for the return of anything she received under the contract with X, 
such as any free equipment, and the ending of access to any digital content or 
services.
If 3J Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my 
award, they should provide Ms D with a certificate showing how much they have taken off, 
so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman