DRN-2715141
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the standard of service that they received from Nationwide
Building Society surrounding the switching of their bank account.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D wanted to open a bank account with Nationwide. To achieve this, they made
an online application with Nationwide for a partial switch from their existing bank to
Nationwide.
However, Mr and Mrs D found the partial switch process to be problematic and didnt feel
that Nationwides website provided a clear enough explanation of the differences between a
partial switch and a full switch.
Because of the issues that Mr and Mrs D had encountered during the partial switch process,
they raised a complaint. Nationwide looked at this complaint, and while they didnt uphold
several aspects of the complaint, they did conclude that Mr and Mrs D should have received
a better standard of service from Nationwide when they had called to ask for help with the
partial switch process. So, Nationwide upheld the complaint on that basis only, and made an
offer of £150 compensation by way of an apology.
Mr and Mrs D didnt think that Nationwides response went far enough and were also not
happy with the level of service Nationwide had provided to them during the complaint
process. So, they declined Nationwides offer and referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the complaint response
issued by Nationwide, and the offer of compensation it included, was a fair one. So, they
didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied and so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2021 in which I stated as follows:
Having looked at the information available here, I note that Nationwides website 
does provide a clear explanation of what the partial switch process involves, how it 
differs from the full switch process, and what is expected of the customer during that 
process.
Im also aware that information about the differences between the full and partial 
switch services was provided to Mr and Mrs D during the online application process, 
and while I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs D feel that this information should be made 
more prominent, Im satisfied that overall they were provided with a sufficient level of 
information by Nationwide to enable them to make an informed choice.
So, it follows that I think Nationwides decision to not uphold this aspect of Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint was a fair one, given the circumstances here.
However, Nationwide have acknowledged that the service that they provided to Mr 
and Mrs D when they contacted Nationwide by telephone wasnt to the standard that 
they expect, and they made an offer of compensation to Mr and Mrs D because of 
this.
Compensation can be a subjective issue, and I understand that Mr and Mrs D dont 
feel that Nationwides offer went far enough, but I must note that the £150 offered by 
Nationwide is commensurate with what this service would expect, considering what 
has happened here. So, while I will be upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint on this 
basis, I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable to ask Nationwide to make any 
further offer above this amount.
Finally, I understand that Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the standard of service 
they received from Nationwide during the complaint process, but I can see that 
Nationwide issued a complaint response letter within the same month that the 
complaint was made, which is within the eight week response time that a company is 
expected to respond within. I also cant see anything from the evidence available to 
me that would give me cause to consider that Nationwide have handled Mr and Mrs 
Ds complaint in an unreasonable or inappropriate way.
Mr and Mrs D and Nationwide were invited to comment on my provisional decision or 
provide any further information that they wished me to consider and were given until 24 
March 2021 to do so.
Neither Mr and Mrs D or Nationwide made any comments or provided any further 
information, and so I see no reason not to uphold this complaint on the basis outlined in my 
provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment to Mr and Mrs D of £150.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman