DRN-2844733
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) didnt change his address as hed
requested.
What happened
Mr L visited a branch of BOI in February 2020 and asked that his address be changed. This 
wasnt done until June 2020.
Mr L complained. He said the error by BOI meant his statements and other correspondence 
went to his old address  which was inconvenient and embarrassing, as his ex-partner lived 
there. When he complained to BOI about this  in May 2020  they told him theyd changed 
his address then. But this wasnt done until 23 June 2020  when Mr L had to complain 
again. He said direct debits to one company were returned because he wasnt aware of what 
was happening. His online access to his account was also restricted as the code for mobile 
verification was also sent to the old address. He said hed been stressed and worried about 
what had happened.
BOI said they had no record of Mr L making the request in the branch in February 2020. 
They shouldve changed his address in May 2020  when Mr L first complained but didnt 
due to an error. When Mr L complained again  in June 2020, they dealt with it then. They 
apologised for their error made in May 2020, and  in their final response dated 28 August 
2020 - paid Mr L compensation of £150. They said that Mr L couldve changed his address 
online if he wished. And he had access to online banking throughout  so he could see his 
transactions and balance.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said he accepted that Mr L did 
visit the branch to change his address sometime between January 2020 and early March 
2020. And because it wasnt changed by BOI until June 2020, this was inconvenient to him. 
And  his statements had been sent to his old address. So  BOIs apology and 
compensation of £150 was right for this. He was satisfied that Mr L had access to online 
banking during the period. He could see that Mr L had to chase BOI four times in 2020 to 
sort things out  between May and August 2020. Two calls were about the change of 
address and two calls were to chase BOIs final response to said that in view of this, BOI 
should pay another £100 in compensation.
BOI didnt agree with our investigator. They said that they felt their compensation of £150 for
fair for what happened. They noted that Mr L had changed address frequently  so shouldve
been aware that he couldve also changed his address online. He had access to online
banking throughout.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator.
The key issues in considering Mr Ls complaint is  what happened when (and if) he visited 
the branch to change his address. And what impact this had on him. Ive thought about his 
complaint in that context.
Mr L says he visited the branch in the first three months of 2020  the dates hes told us vary 
from January 2020 to 1 March 2020. I can accept he wouldnt have been able to give us  or 
BOI  a specific date. But if we accept what hes said  and the address wasnt changed 
until 23 June 2020, then Mr Ls statements and other correspondence went to the wrong 
address for a good period. BOI have told us that his mobile activation codes would also have 
been sent to the wrong address. Looking at the issue of the statements  I can accept that 
this wouldve been embarrassing for him  as his ex-partner couldve seen them. But there 
wasnt any material loss as a result. BOI have admitted their error here  and paid 
compensation of £150. I agree that was the right thing to do here and the amount of the 
award probably looks a little more than we would normally see for what happened.
Ive then thought about what other harm or loss Mr L couldve been caused. The fact that it 
looks likely that mobile phone activation codes were also sent to the wrong address meant 
that Mr l couldnt use the full use of online banking. BOI told us that this meant he couldnt 
make payments or transfers  but he could still log onto online banking and view 
transactions and see balances. So, he could see exactly what was happening on his 
accounts. He could also have changed his address online. Ive seen that he logged onto 
online banking at the time. So  there was little impact on Mr L here. And in fact, as he could 
monitor his account easily using internet banking, the impact of not being able to see his 
paper statements was reduced. Its a fact that in todays world, many customers opt not to 
receive paper statements  and are happy to deal with their accounts online only.
Mr L has said he had some direct debits in favour of one beneficiary not paid as he couldnt 
monitor his account because of what happened. Ive seen these were regularly returned 
unpaid. But he also told us these werent authorised by him anyway  so Im not sure any 
material harm was done here. BOI told us that no fees were charged for these.
I can appreciate that Mr L had to call BOI four times  both to sort out the change of address 
and then to chase their final response. I agree this must have been frustrating and 
inconvenient. But  I dont think this justifies a further payment of compensation here. And  
looking at what happened here overall, I think that BOIs compensation of £150 is enough 
payment to include these calls. I can see this will be disappointing for Mr L  as it departs 
from our investigators view  but having reviewed what happened here, Im sure that this is 
a fair outcome.
So  my provisional decision her Mr L or BOI may have, is to not uphold this complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision:
BOI accepted my provisional decision. Mr L didnt respond.
So  I now need to reach a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BOI accepted my findings, and Mr L didnt respond, I wont be departing from what I said 
in my provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman