DRN-2268114
The complaint
Mr H complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to confirm whether the payee details 
were correct on a payment he wanted to make.
He would like an apology and compensation.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr H wanted to make a one-off large payment from his Lloyds account. 
The payee, with whom he hadnt had regular dealings, had provided Mr H with bank details 
to make the payment. 
Mr H went to his local branch to make the payment. He asked the cashier to check the 
payee account details were correct. Mr H made it clear he wasnt asking for any of the 
payees details  he just wanted to know if the account details he had were right, before 
making a large payment.
Mr H was upset because he said the cashier refused quite officiously, and cited a data 
protection duty to protect the payee. Mr H was unhappy that the cashier had shown no 
concern for his interests or security. He complained.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that under the Data Protection Act, it was 
unable to disclose other customers account details and personal information. Lloyds said 
that although Mr H might want to review the recipients details, it had a duty of care to protect 
customer data.
Mr H remained unhappy and complained to this service. He explained that he hadnt asked 
for any disclosure of the payees account details. He also pointed out that later, in March 
2020, Lloyds had notified him that it would shortly be introducing the system of confirmation 
of payee, when making payments. Lloyds had said that When you set up a new payee to 
make certain payments, well ask the payees bank to check the name on the account 
matches the name you gave us. Well let you know and if the name doesnt match well ask if 
you want to continue with the payment. Mr H pointed out that this was exactly what hed 
asked for in October 2019  and if this didnt compromise data protection in June 2020, it 
wouldnt have done in October 2019.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He explained that at the time of Mr Hs 
request, it was against Lloyds policies to confirm the name of a recipient account, as it might 
have breached data protection. Although the rules had subsequently changed, at the time it 
might have revealed information which wasnt allowed at the time.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. He sent a detailed email, including the following points:
- What Mr H had asked for was exactly the same as what Lloyds payment systems 
now provide automatically. Data protection legislation hasnt changed. So if 
confirmation of payee can be provided now, it couldnt have breached data protection 
in October 2019; 
- Lloyds terms and conditions set out that You must check that the details are correct 
before asking us to make a payment.  Mr H said this was what hed tried to do when 
hed asked the cashier for confirmation. So he believes that the cashier had been 
obliged to comply with his request in October 2019;
- Mr H said that our investigator had been making the case on behalf of Lloyds, a 
mighty international organisation, against him as an individual;
- Mr H said there had also been several unexplained data errors on his Lloyds 
account, which had meant that debit cards had gone elsewhere;
- The same branch cashier had been very unhelpful again a week or two later, when 
shed refused to help him by printing off payee details on his account, even though 
shed only been a few feet away from the computer. Shed handwritten the 
information instead, and had done so incorrectly;
- Another member of branch staff had also made a mistake about payee details, which 
had led to an international payment from Mr Hs account going astray;
- Mr H felt the October 2019 cashier had been unfair and had put Mr Hs financial 
security and interest at risk;
- Mr H explained that despite being a long-term customer, hed had multiple examples 
of a stroppy and lazy attitude at the branch in recent years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr H feels very frustrated and unhappy with the service hes received 
from his local Lloyds branch. Its always upsetting to feel that any organisation isnt providing 
good customer service, and Mr H has explained that hes been a long term Lloyds customer.
First, I need to explain what this service can and cant do. Were bound by rules set up by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. One of these rules says that we can only consider 
complaints to which businesses have had a chance to reply. This means I cant look at Mr 
Hs unhappiness with what he told us in his reply to the investigators view  about Lloyds 
data errors; the incident with the cashier who wouldnt print out payee details and then wrote 
them wrongly; and the mistake leading to an international payment going astray.  I realise 
that Mr H is upset and frustrated by these problems, but hed need to complain first to Lloyds 
before this service can consider them. 
So Ill look at the complaint Mr H brought to Lloyds about the October 2019 incident, where 
he wanted confirmation that the details for his payee were correct.
I accept that Mr H wasnt asking Lloyds to give him lots of personal data about his payee. 
What he wanted was indeed whats since become an automatic check for the larger banks  
confirmation that theres a match between the name of the account holder, and the numbers 
for the sort code and account number. But I also accept that in October 2019, Lloyds policy 
rules said that none of its employees were allowed to reveal anything about a customers 
account. This would include not being allowed to tell any other customer whether the 
account name matched the sort code and account number. 
Mr H has pointed out that the new confirmation of payee system is now standard practice 
and has been predicted and wanted for many years. Its certainly a very useful tool to help 
customers feel more sure that they are sending payments to the right place. But however 
good a new process is, its not possible to backdate its operation to a time before it was 
implemented. What Lloyds policy said at the time, and what the cashier enforced, was that it 
couldnt let other customers know this information. Banks are entitled to set their own 
business procedures, and its not for this service to say that Lloyds policy at the time was wrong because it was later changed. What I have to determine is whether the way Mr H was 
treated broke Lloyds rules or policies at the time. I find that it didnt. 
Mr H has argued that section 5.2 of Lloyds terms and conditions means that he was entitled 
to Lloyds assistance in checking the details of his payee. I dont agree that section 5.2 says 
that. It says You must check that the details are correct before asking us to make a 
payment.  This puts the responsibility clearly on the customer, and it doesnt say that Lloyds 
has to provide information. 
Its clear that Mr H and the cashier had a difficult encounter. Although I wasnt present, its 
quite possible that the cashier could have been more pleasant and kinder to Mr H, when she 
was saying why she couldnt help. As Ive explained above, I cant consider the other 
customer service issues because Mr H hasnt previously formally complained about them to 
Lloyds. If Mr H decides to stay with Lloyds for his banking, he might wish to raise those 
issues with the bank. But I can only consider the narrow issue of whether the cashier acted 
wrongly in October 2019. I find that she was following the banks policy at that time. The fact 
that the policy subsequently changed, doesnt affect her actions then. I sympathise with Mr 
Hs upset and frustration, but its not open to me to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman