DRN-3910369
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society have defaulted his loan account and 
reported it as such to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr S had a personal loan with Nationwide. In October 2019, a reduced payment plan was 
agreed on the loan as Mr S was struggling to meet the contractual monthly loan payments at 
that time. In January 2020, the reduced payment plan ended, and Mr S reverted back to 
paying the contractual monthly payment amount. 
Some months later, Mr S discovered that Nationwide had defaulted his loan for non-payment 
of arrears. Mr S wasnt happy about this, especially as the status of his loan as being in 
arrears had never been made clear to him. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ss complaint. But they felt the loan had been defaulted for non-
payment of arrears correctly, and so didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. Mr S wasnt 
happy with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its notable that when Mr S began the reduced payment plan in 2019, his 
loan account was already in a position of arrears at that time. This is evidenced by the 
Notice of Sums in Arrears sent to Mr S by Nationwide dated 25 October 2019, which 
explained that the loan account was £700.35 on that date.
At the end of the payment plan, two payments at the contractual monthly payment rate of 
£283.95 were taken in January 2020. This left the loan account £561.30 in arrears at that 
time. Again, this is evidenced by the Notice of Sums in Arrears sent to Mr S by Nationwide 
dated 1 April 2020.
The loan account statements show that, while Mr S did resume making payment of £283.95 
per month after the payment plan ended, which was the contractually required monthly 
amount, he didnt make any further payments to clear the £561.30 arrears that were present 
on the account at that time. As such, it seems reasonable to me that Nationwide would begin 
the process of defaulting Mr Ss account for the non-payment of those arrears, and I note 
that Nationwide sent a Notice of Default to Mr S in March 2020 which explained that the loan 
account would be defaulted if the arrears present on the account werent cleared. 
Mr S has explained that he wasnt aware the loan account was in arrears. But it was the 
responsibility of Mr S, as the account holder, to monitor the account and to have been aware 
of the ongoing status of it. Additionally, Im satisfied that Nationwide did send account 
statements and Notice of Sums in Arrears to Mr S at regular intervals which clearly advised 
that the account was in arrears. Furthermore, Mr S could have obtained information about 
the arrears on the loan account via other channels at any time, including via online banking.
All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have done anything wrong by defaulting 
Mr Ss loan account as they did here. This is because the loan account was in arrears over a 
prolonged period which Mr S as the account holder should reasonably have been aware of, 
and which Im satisfied Nationwide clearly and regularly communicated to Mr S.
While I appreciate that not recognising the arrears on the account may have been a mistake 
on Mr Ss part, as he has explained was the case, this doesnt absolve him of his 
responsibilities to have monitored the account or mean that the defaulting of the account for 
the non-payment of those arrears should in any way be considered as being unfair.
Mr S has raised some further points of complaint, including that hes unhappy that 
Nationwide didnt call him back when they said they would do on one occasion, and that 
Nationwide didnt handle the defaulting of the account as they should have done. However, I 
feel that these aspects of Mr Ss complaint fall outside the remit of the specific complaint that 
Mr S brought to this service in this instance  which was about the fairness of the default 
applied to his account. 
I can also confirm that, even if I were to consider these further points, that they wouldnt 
impact my overall position here, which is that Im satisfied that the defaulting of the loan 
account was fair, for the reasons explained above.  
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I trust that Mr S 
will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman