DRN-4286996
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the way Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIO) handled a claim 
she made on her home insurance policy following an escape of water.
Reference to either party includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs J got in touch with EIO in March 2018 after an escape of water from her loft 
caused damage to her buildings and contents. EIO accepted the claim.
There followed much discussion and disagreement about how to settle the claim, 
including the schedule of work for building repairs, the value of the contents, and 
alternative accommodation. Mrs J complained.
EIO gave its complaint response in June 2019 (FRL1), setting out its position on 
how to settle the claim. Discussions continued after that but an agreement still wasnt 
reached. Mrs J made a further complaint.
EIO gave another complaint response in October 2021 (FRL2). It again set out its 
position on how to settle the claim, including increased offers for some points.
Mrs J referred her complaint to this Service. Another Ombudsman considered the 
jurisdiction position and found we could look into some, but not all, of Mrs Js 
complaint points. He said the following matters are within our jurisdiction:
oBuildings claim:
EIOs increase of settlement taking into account higher material and 
labour costs.
EIOs settlement on the light fittings that it could no longer refit as they 
were disposed of.
And handling of the claim after FRL1, including EIOs decision to cash 
settle the claim.
oContents claim:
The full history of the contents claim up until FRL2.
The Ombudsman clarified several matters were outside our jurisdiction:
oAlternative accommodation offer made in FRL1
oUtility costs offer made in FRL1
oAn electricity invoice which hasnt been complained about yet (Mrs J is 
entitled to make that complaint to EIO if she wishes).
Mrs J queried some items that she thought hadnt been accounted for in EIOs offers: 
a wardrobe, extractor fan, shower, bathroom cabinet and several other bathroom 
items that arent accounted for elsewhere. The Ombudsman said we couldnt 
consider these items if they were part of the buildings claim offer from FRL1. But we 
could if they were part of the contents claim, subject to the FRL2 cut-off date.
Our investigator considered the merits of the points within our jurisdiction. He didnt 
ask EIO to do anything further. In summary, he made the following points:
oEIO hadnt unreasonably delayed the buildings claim since FRL1. It had 
outlined different options for Mrs J but didnt receive constructive responses 
from her. So it was reasonable to offer a cash settlement.
oEIOs buildings claim offer in FRL1 included bathroom sanitary ware, so those 
items had been taken into account.
oThe increase in offer for the buildings claim from FRL1 to FRL2 was fair.
oMrs J had asked to settle the contents claim for £35,000 and the return of 
some of the items from storage. EIO returned the requested items and agreed 
to Mrs Js suggested figure. This was a fair settlement for the contents.
Mrs J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive read and considered all the information provided by both parties, I wont 
specifically comment on each and every point raised. Ill focus on what I think are the key 
points to reaching an outcome thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
reflects the informal nature of this Service.
Ill set out my findings in line with the points another Ombudsman found to be within our 
jurisdiction.
Buildings claim
In FRL1, EIO offered £68,445 to settle the buildings claim. Whilst I know Mrs J feels very 
strongly that this offer was unfair because it didnt fully reflect the extent of repair required, 
its not within our jurisdiction to consider that offer. So I wont be able to consider the points 
shes made about this.
EIO later increased its offer to £71,000 to allow more for the replacement of kitchen units, 
radiators and bathroom sanitary ware.
In FRL2, it said it previously thought some light fittings could be refitted but, as they had 
since been disposed of, it agreed to pay £1,500 to replace them instead. That brought the 
offer up to £72,500.
EIO also acknowledged the rising cost of materials and labour and increased the offer to 
£76,125 to take these factors into account. It rounded that figure up to £80,000 as a gesture 
of goodwill. It also agreed to waive the £250 policy excess.EIOs increase of settlement taking into account higher material and labour costs.
EIO increased its offer by 5.5% to take into account the rising costs of carrying out work 
between its original offer in 2019 and its latter offer in 2021. And taking into account the 
goodwill gesture and waiving the excess, its increase was effectively over 10%.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the cost of carrying out the work to Mrs Js home 
increased by more than this as a result of costs rising.
And, as Ill explain later in my findings, I dont think EIO caused any unreasonable delays 
between its two offers for the buildings claim. So I dont think it was obliged to factor in any 
increase of building costs as a result of the passage of time. That it offered an increase of 
over 10% means Im satisfied it treated Mrs J fairly on this point.
EIOs settlement on the light fittings that it could no longer refit as they were disposed of.
EIO originally scheduled to refit the light fittings. When those fittings were disposed of, it 
offered Mrs J £1,500 to replace them.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest this cost is insufficient for supplying these items. So 
Im satisfied its a fair offer in the circumstances.
And handling of the claim after FRL1, including EIOs decision to cash settle the claim.
As Ive said above, I cant consider the points Mrs J has made about the original offer. The 
key point that I can consider is whether it was fair for EIO to offer to settle the claim by cash 
payment. Mrs J would like it to arrange for the work to be carried out by its own contractor.
Under the buildings section of the policy it says:
We can choose to settle a claim for damage by either:
oPaying for the full cost of repairing, or
oBy making a cash payment, or
oPaying for the cost of re-building if damaged beyond repair.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that EIO can choose whether to pay for the repairs (by having 
its contractor carry out the work) or make a cash settlement. The last bullet point isnt 
relevant here.
Generally, I wouldnt interfere with EIOs contractual right to choose unless I thought there 
was a compelling reason to do so. For example, if I was satisfied there was significant risk of 
detriment to the policyholder of arranging the repairs themselves.
Mrs J has explained shes suffering from ill health and the medical evidence shes shared 
suggests she be provided with a project manager for the work as she would be in no position 
to manage it herself.
I note EIO has included within its offer an allowance to appoint a project manager to oversee 
the work. That means in practice Mrs J wouldnt need to directly arrange and communicate 
with contractors about the detail of the work or the schedule of payments  the project 
manager would do that for her. I think that considerably lessens the potential negative 
impact on her health of the cash settlement option.
I also think EIO had little option but to settle the claim by cash. Ill explain why.FRL1 was written in June 2019, over a year after the claim began. There had already been 
lots of discussion about how to settle all aspects of the claim prior to that and they continued 
afterwards. Mrs J was particularly concerned about the scope of repair to the walls and the 
allowance for a replacement kitchen, although there were other points too.
EIO had taken advice from an engineer before compiling the schedule of work that led to its 
offer in FRL1. It took into account the engineers view about how to repair the wall and a 
reasonable estimate for the kitchen. It also had a surveyors advice about the kitchen.
After that offer, Mrs J took advice from a different but similarly qualified engineer about the 
walls. They suggested more significant work was required. EIO took further advice from its 
own engineer and wasnt persuaded to change the scope of repair. Mrs J urged EIO to take 
advice from a kitchen specialist to obtain a fair estimate for that cost. EIO didnt think that 
was necessary as it had already received advice from a surveyor and an engineer.
An agreement hadnt been reached by September 2020, so EIO set out three options to 
progress the building claim. Firstly, for the relevant experts to meet at the property in an 
attempt to agree on all outstanding issues. Secondly, for her to accept its offer of £71,000. 
And thirdly, to go to arbitration.
Mrs J didnt agree to any of the options. She didnt think the first option was reasonable 
because, in her view, reaching agreement on all the issues would mean having a kitchen 
specialist there as well as an engineer. And she didnt think the cash offer was reasonable, 
so she didnt wish to accept the second option. Nor did she wish to go to arbitration.
An agreement still hadnt been reached by October 2021. EIO increased the offer as set out 
above but otherwise maintained it had acted fairly. It sent Mrs J a cheque for its offer as it 
said she hadnt engaged with EIO to progress the claim. I know Mrs J considers things were 
actually the other way round  and it was EIO who was stalling progress by not engaging 
with a kitchen specialist.
In my view, EIO acted fairly and set out reasonable options. It didnt think it necessary to 
engage a kitchen specialist as it had already taken advice on that point. It was at all times 
open to Mrs J to take her own advice about that if she wished to challenge EIOs position. 
She has done so more recently, but that was long after FRL2, so I cant consider it here. 
However, Mrs J is entitled to share that advice with EIO, if she hasnt done so already. And if 
so, I would expect EIO to consider whether this changes its position and let Mrs J know.
I know Mrs J was finding the claim very stressful to deal with, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest EIO treated her unfairly during the relevant time or added avoidably to her distress. I 
think it took reasonable steps to progress matters, and gave Mrs J a reasonable opportunity 
to provide comments and/or evidence to challenge EIOs position. I havent seen anything to 
make me think EIO stalled progress or otherwise caused delays. On the contrary, it was 
conscious of how slow progress was and suggested ways to improve that.
The period of time I can consider for the buildings claim is over two years long  July 2019 to 
October 2021. During that time, Mrs J rarely engaged with EIO and it was quite clear she 
wouldnt agree to its schedule of repair. Nor did she agree to progress the claim by a site 
meeting or arbitration. Whilst she was concerned the kitchen allowance was insufficient, she 
didnt provide evidence to challenge EIOs position.
By FRL2 the claim had been ongoing for around three and a half years but it had been at a 
stalemate for most of that time, despite the steps EIO had taken to progress it. I wouldnt 
expect EIO to leave a claim open and unsettled indefinitely, so I can understand why it sent Mrs J a cheque in settlement. It couldnt force any other settlement options, so sending her 
the cash settlement was the only option it had left.
Overall, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances for EIO to choose to 
settle the buildings claim by cash payment. And Im satisfied it handled the buildings claim 
fairly between FRL1 and FRL2.
As Mrs J has noted, its possible that once work begins, her contractor may think the 
schedule of work is insufficient. If thats the case, Mrs J would be entitled to get in touch with 
EIO, explain what the contractor has found and what the cost implications are. I would 
expect EIO to consider any such request and let Mrs J know whether it will make a further 
payment to her. EIO is likely to ask for appropriate evidence before agreeing to make any 
payments and it may ask for the opportunity to inspect whatever the contractor has found.
Contents claim
EIO estimated the cost of the contents damaged beyond repair at around £13,000 initially. 
Noting that other items might not respond successfully to repair or restoration, it made an 
offer of £20,000 to settle the contents claim in FRL1. Mrs J didnt challenge this figure.
In September 2020, EIO increased this to £25,000 in an effort to resolve the contents claim 
and bring to an end the need for it to pay to store Mrs Js contents at its own expense.
In early 2021, Mrs J said she would accept £35,000  if certain items were returned to her. 
EIO agreed to this. It returned the items and sent Mrs J a cheque for the agreed amount.
Whilst this is only a very brief summary of the contents claim, Im satisfied it sets out the key 
points. Since EIO settled the claim as Mrs J asked  and potentially at a significantly higher 
value than had been evidenced  I think it acted fairly.
Mrs J queried some items that she thought hadnt been accounted for in EIOs offers: a 
wardrobe, extractor fan, shower, bathroom cabinet and several other bathroom items that 
arent accounted for elsewhere.
EIO originally agreed to pay for a wardrobe in the second bedroom under the buildings 
claim. By the time of FRL1, it removed that wardrobe from the building claim and Mrs J 
understood it would be added to the contents claim. She says the contents list included a 
wardrobe, but that was from the third bedroom  not the second. So effectively, the 
wardrobe from the second bedroom hasnt been included in either claim. Mrs J has 
estimated the cost of this wardrobe between £900 and £1,600.
I agree it does appear the second bedroom wardrobe was removed from the buildings claim 
and not added to the contents claim initially. At that time, EIO thought the contents claim was 
worth around £13,000. Since then, its agreed to an increase to £35,000. So Im satisfied that 
comfortably covers the cost, as estimated by Mrs J, of the wardrobe.
Mrs J has a main bathroom and an en-suite. EIOs offer under the buildings claim included 
fitting a new bathroom suite in the main bathroom. And in the en-suite, fitting a new shower 
tray and re-fitting the shower screen, toilet, wash basin and associated connections. That 
means some of the items Mrs J has queried dont appear under the buildings claim, such as 
the extractor fan and bathroom cabinet. These items dont appear on the contents list either. 
And some items that were scheduled to be refit must now be replaced as theyve been 
disposed of by EIO.I havent seen estimates from Mrs J for the cost of all these items. But shes suggested 
around £1,300 for a replacement toilet and wash basin. Including the other items, I think its 
likely to come to less than £2,000 in total.
After FRL1, EIO increased the buildings offer from £68,445 to £71,000. In part that additional 
amount was to allow to replace bathroom items, rather than re-fit them. And, as with the 
wardrobe, the contents claim was also increased significantly around this time. So again, Im 
satisfied these increases cover the likely cost of the bathroom items.
Overall, Im satisfied EIO dealt with the contents claim fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman