The complaint
Mr S complains about issues he's experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Advantage Finance Ltd.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr S was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. At the point of supply the car was 12 years old and had covered 
approximately 87,000 miles.
Within the first week of driving the car Mr S noticed that it was leaking coolant. He reported 
this to the supplying dealer, who said it would inspect the car. Mr S had to cancel the 
appointment with the dealer due to work commitments. The dealer asked Mr S to call back in 
the New Year to arrange another appointment.
Whilst driving the car in late December the engine lost power and went into limp mode. Mr S 
has said the supplying dealer refused to collect the car even though he'd been advised by 
his local garage and a motor rescue organisation not to drive the car. He complained to 
Advantage because he wasn't able to resolve matters with the dealer.
Advantage asked Mr S to provide a diagnostic report. Mr S obtained a report from his local 
garage on 26 January 2019 which said the coolant was leaking and one of the turbos was 
broken. The garage also carried out a chemical test on the head gasket and said it showed 
no issues.
Mr S sent the diagnostic report to Advantage. However, Advantage said it hadn't received it 
and arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out.
The independent inspection was carried out in February 2019. It concluded that there had 
been an inherent coolant leak at the point of supply but that the continued use of the car 
whilst experiencing coolant loss had contributed to the engine overheating and a probable 
blown  head gasket. 
As a result of the independent inspection, Advantage agreed that the supplying dealer was 
responsible for repairing the coolant leak but that any repairs to the head gasket were Mr S's 
responsibility.
Mr S wasn't happy with the response. He felt that Advantage should cover the cost of repairs 
to the head gasket as well. He brought his complaint to this service and said he wanted to 
reject the car. He also raised an issue regarding the mileage on the car, which he says was 
advertised at 87,000 but had covered 87,863 in a recent MOT and 88,324 by the time it was 
supplied to him.
DRN-1349260Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She thought the offer by Advantage to cover the 
costs of repairing the coolant leak was fair. She felt it was more likely than not that the head 
gasket had blown since the point of supply and that this had been caused by driving with 
insufficient coolant.
Mr S didn't agree. He said there was no evidence that driving the car from his local garage 
back to his house had caused the head gasket to blow. He said the supplying dealer should 
have arranged to collect the car and repair the coolant leak when he first reported the issue 
in December.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Advantage supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement there's an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable, taking into account all the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car 
- such as that supplied to Mr S - to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold 
this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car as 
opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months there's a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isn't 
successful the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that there was an inherent fault.
There's no dispute that there was an inherent fault with the car leaking coolant. But Mr S and 
Advantage disagree about whether there was also an inherent fault with the head gasket at 
the point of supply. In order to reach a decision I need to look at all the available 
evidence and decide, on the balance of probabilities, whether the car is of satisfactory 
quality.
An independent inspection can help in deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality. The 
independent inspection of Mr S's car found that the coolant level was low. The engineer's 
opinion was that the engine had overheated, probably resulting in a blown head gasket. he 
said that without further investigation he couldn't confirm whether the turbo had failed. The 
engineer said he had no doubt that the continued use of the car whist experiencing coolant 
loss had caused the engine to overheat and resulting in the breaching of the head gasket. 
The report concluded that the car had an inherent coolant leak at the point of supply.
I've also taken into account the diagnostic report obtained by Mr S. This identifies a coolant 
leak and issues with the turbo. It didn't identify any issues with the head gasket.
Based on what I've seen, I'm satisfied that there was an inherent issue with the coolant leak 
at the point of supply. There's been no definite diagnosis of a blown head gasket, so I can't 
safely conclude that this has happened.
I understand that Mr S feels that if the coolant fault hadn't been present then the other issues 
wouldn't have developed. However, the independent engineer has been very clear in his 
opinion that continuing to drive the car with low coolant has caused the engine to overheat. 
Mr S has said that he topped up the coolant and has provided some receipt to show that he 
purchased coolant. However, I can see from the independent report that the coolant level was low at the time of inspection. On balance, I'm persuaded by the independent engineer's 
opinion that continuing to drive the car with a coolant leak has caused the other issues. I 
think Mr S has to accept some responsibility here because he continued to drive the car with 
a  known coolant issue.
I understand that Mr S feels that Advantage should cover the cost of all repairs. However, 
the only fault which has been diagnosed by the independent engineer is the coolant leak. I 
accept that the engineer says its probable that the head gasket has blown but this hasn't 
been confirmed. Even if it transpires that the head gasket has blown, for the reasons I've 
already explained, I'm persuaded that this was caused by Mr S continuing to drive the car 
with a known coolant issue.
Mr S has said that the supplying dealer should've repaired the coolant leak as soon as he 
reported it. Based on what I've seen, the dealer offered to inspect the car but Mr S had to 
cancel the appointment. I understand that Mr S wasn't prepared to drive the car to the 
dealer, who he says was approximately 100 miles away. Mr S has also said he thinks it is 
the dealer's responsibility to collect the car in any event.
I understand the point Mr S makes but I disagree with his interpretation of the relevant 
legislation. A dealer is obliged to collect a car if a consumer is exercising a short term or final 
right to reject. But this obligation doesn't apply where a car is being returned to the dealer for 
inspection with a view to carrying out repairs, which was the case here.
I've also considered Mr S's complaint about the mileage on the car. I can see that 
the advertised mileage was less than the mileage when Mr S took possession of the car. 
However, I'm not persuaded that the difference is so significant  that it warrants rejection of 
the car.
Based on all the evidence I've seen, I'm satisfied that the car had a coolant leak at the point 
of supply. I think the offer by Advantage to meet the costs of repairing this is fair. I won't be 
asking Advantage to meet the costs of any other repairs. This is because I'm persuaded by 
the independent engineers report that the other issues have been caused by Mr S continuing 
to drive the car with a known coolant issue. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman