DRN-3234478
The complaint
Mr B says that he was unreasonably pressured into buying replacement doors and windows 
with a loan provided by Shawbrook Bank. He says too that he was given misleading 
information about the supplier and the price of the goods. He is represented by a firm which 
Ill refer to as H. 
What happened
In September 2017 Mr B entered into a contract with a company, Z, for the supply and 
installation of replacement doors and windows at their home. To finance the purchase, Mr B 
took out a 10-year loan with Shawbrook, arranged by Z. He repaid the loan in 2018.
In or about March 2020 H, on behalf of Mr B, complained to Shawbrook about the sale of the 
doors and windows and the credit agreement. In summary, H has said:
Shawbrook had not disclosed that a director of Zs parent company had a criminal 
record.
The nature of Zs relationship with Shawbrook had not been disclosed.
The sale was the result of a cold call.
Z had offered Mr and Mrs E an unfair incentive to induce Mr B into taking out the loan.
Z had been placed into administration a few days before the sale and loan were 
completed and the sale should not have been completed.
Because Z is no longer trading, the 10-year warranty provided is of no benefit to Mr B.    
Shawbrook did not accept that it had any liability to Mr B. It said however that it would 
consider any warranty claims that might arise. H referred the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, and one of our investigators considered it. She did not consider 
however that Shawbrook had treated Mr B unfairly. H did not accept her view and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is that Shawbrook is responsible for the actions of Z  and in particular for 
its conduct in the sale of home improvement package and the loan agreement  and that 
Shawbrook should not have allowed the sale to go ahead.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the price attached to the goods falls within certain financial limits;
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied that the necessary conditions were met here. 
The effect of section 56 of the same Act is that, in negotiating the sale and the loan 
agreement, Z is to be taken as acting as the agent of Shawbrook. That is, statements made 
by Z about the goods, their installation or the loan are treated as if they were statements 
made by Shawbrook.
H has also referred to The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. 
Those regulations prohibit certain practices in consumer contracts, including, for example: 
claiming that a deal will only be available for a limited time; refusing to leave a customers 
home when asked to do so; giving misleading advice about the price of a product; and giving 
misleading information about the trader.
As H has noted, Z was placed into administration shortly before the sale and loan agreement 
were completed. It remained authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority until December 
2017, however. It also supplied and arranged for the installation of the doors and windows 
Mr and Mrs B had bought, and it took payment from Shawbrook. It does not appear therefore 
that Mr B was directly affected by the administration. Z was still able to do what had been 
agreed. 
H provided a statement from Mr B setting out his recollection of the sales process. Mr B said 
that the sale was concluded after a number of visits, the first of which lasted over four hours; 
another lasted nearly as long. Initially, Mr and Mrs B were given a quote of over £22,000, but 
that was eventually reduced to just over £5,000 if they took out a loan arranged by Z. They 
were told as well that Z had been in business for over 30 years  a statement they believe to 
be untrue. I accept that Mr B has been honest in his recollection of what happened. 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law which is untrue and 
which induces someone to enter into a contract, causing loss. Mr B has identified two 
specific statements made on behalf of Z and which he believes were untrue. They are that Z 
had been trading for over 30 years and that the true price of the doors and windows were 
much higher than was in fact the case, meaning that the reduction he was offered was 
exaggerated. 
I can see that either or both of these statements might have influenced the decision whether 
or not to proceed. However, even if I were to accept that, but for those statements, Mr and 
Mrs B would not have gone ahead, I do not believe they have suffered any loss as a result. 
They received the goods they paid for at the price they agreed; theres no suggestion that 
price was inflated. And, because Mr B repaid the loan early, the overall cost was slightly less 
than it would have been without the loan. 
A number of the allegations made against Z are that it acted in breach of the 2008 
regulations. These include, for example, the allegation that Z initially gave an inflated price to 
make it appear as if it was later offering a greater discount than was in fact the case. The 
regulations do not however give any direct rights to consumers affected by any breach of 
them. Rather, they give certain bodies the right to take enforcement action, which can lead 
to fines or imprisonment. Neither do those regulations directly impose duties or liability on a 
lender in the position of Shawbrook  although some acts which are breaches might give 
rise to liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, for example.   
H has noted that Z had been fined for breach of the regulations, as a result of its activities a 
few years earlier. It does not follow however that Shawbrook was under any duty to disclose that fact to Mr B (assuming of course it knew of it) or that Mr B has suffered any loss as a 
result. 
As far as the warranty is concerned, I note that Z has now been dissolved, so that it is most 
unlikely that it will be able to satisfy any claim under that warranty. That is likely to be a 
breach of contract, since Mr B has paid for 10-year warranty and not received one. Unless 
and until a claim arises, however, there is no loss to Mr B. I note however that Shawbrook 
has said that it will consider any claim that might arise, which I think is reasonable in the 
present circumstances.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman