DRN-2478609
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Zenith Insurance plcs repair of her phone under her gadget 
insurance policy. My references to Zenith include its agents.
What happened
Mrs M had gadget insurance, insured by Zenith. In January 2018 she made a claim for her 
phone. Zenith accepted the claim and repaired the phone with a new battery giving a 
90 days warranty.
Mrs M says that in October 2018 the replacement battery was no longer working properly so 
she contacted Zenith who suggested she return the phone. Mrs M says she didnt want to be 
without a phone for a few weeks, as happened with the first repair, so she took the phone to 
the phone manufacturers authorised repairer. That repairer told Mrs M the phone battery 
wasnt the manufacturers brand, the fixing tabs had been snapped off and the battery had 
been glued in. She sent us a report from the repairer which she said showed the phone 
hadnt been repaired properly.
Mrs M continued to use the phone but in May 2019 she decided to buy a new phone. She 
says the phone manufacturers shop offered her £140 to trade in her old phone but withdrew 
the offer when she went to the shop because of the glued in battery.
Mrs M complains that Zeniths repair only lasted five months and the battery being glued into 
her phone meant she lost the £140 trade in value for her phone. She wants Zenith to pay her 
£140.
Zenith said it only had a record of Mrs M contacting it about a problem with her phones 
replacement battery when she tried to trade in the phone, about 16 months later. Zenith 
thought the repair had been done in accordance to its repairers standard process and was 
to a satisfactory standard.
Our investigator said the phone hadnt been satisfactorily repaired and Zenith should pay 
Mrs M the £140 trade in value that she lost plus interest.
Zenith disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It sent evidence from its repairer 
which it said supported that the repair had been satisfactory. It also noted there was no 
evidence to support that Mrs M had been offered £140 for her phone.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but Im intending to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear Zenith doesnt cover:
any expense incurred as a result of not being able to use the gadget, or any loss 
other than the repair or replacement costs of the gadget.
So Zenith will cover the repair or replacement costs but only as part of a successful claim. 
Theres no cover for any loss of value in a phone when a consumer wants to trade in a 
phone when buying another phone.
However, on a fair and reasonable basis there might be circumstances where I think its fair 
for Zenith to cover a loss in a phones value. To start with Id have to be satisfied that the 
loss of value was due to its unreasonable action. I think Zenith acted reasonably in this case.
Mrs M had a 90 days warranty for the battery Zenith replaced in January 2018, which is a 
common warranty period. It makes no difference that Zenith has no record Mrs M called it in 
October 2018 about the replacement battery not working properly. Even if she had called 
then that would have been outside the 90 days and the problem wouldnt be covered by the 
warranty, she would need to have made a new claim.
The relevant industry guidance, rules and regulations mean Zenith must ensure the phone is 
repaired with reasonable care and skill.
Ive seen the phone manufacturers authorised repairers report dated June 2019. It says the 
repair outcome is third part battery, battery tabs missing and battery has been glued in. It 
gives the solution as replacing the whole phone through the manufacturer for a specified 
cost. So I think its probable the repairer told Mrs M it wouldnt repair the phone.
But the policy is clear Zenith can use unbranded parts to do a repair. The fact that Zenith 
used a third party battery doesnt mean it didnt repair with reasonable care and skill.
The report from Zeniths repairer says that it uses 3m LSE tape to fit batteries and did so for 
Mrs Ms phone. The repairer says not only is this the correct way to attach a battery it is also 
significantly quicker than glue as it bonds instantly. This is high bond double sided tape, 
without using the proper tools the battery cannot be removed. Obviously this is the desired 
outcome as once stuck down we dont want the battery to move.
Its not unusual for iphone batteries to be fitted with 3m LSE tape. Zeniths repairer says glue 
wasnt used and I think its more likely than not glue wasnt used. As the phone 
manufacturers repairer didnt remove the battery I think its unlikely they would be able to tell 
whether glue or 3m LSE tape was used.
Zeniths repairer also says the battery tabs, which make pulling out the battery easier, are 
part of the phone manufacturers batteries but third party batteries generally dont have those 
tabs. So its not that the battery should have had tabs which were broken off.
Zeniths repairer says the phone manufacturer usually refuses to do repairs, and tells a 
customer to buy a new phone, if a third party has done a repair on the phone. I dont have 
any evidence to support thats correct. But I am satisfied that its more likely than not Zeniths 
repairer replaced the battery on Mrs Ms phone in line with its standard process and with 
reasonable care and skill.
I havent seen evidence to support that the phone manufacturers shop originally offered 
Mrs M £140 for her phone which it withdrew when it saw how the phone had been repaired. 
But even if Mrs M has such evidence as I think Zenith repaired the phone to a satisfactory 
standard it doesnt need to make any payment to Mrs M.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M didnt agree. In summary her main point was Zenith had put in a battery that was fixed permanently to the phone and the phone manufacturer told her that any attempt to remove it 
might break the phone or cause it to burst into flames which made her phone worthless 
when she tried to trade it in. 
Mrs M said if the battery couldnt be removed without destroying the phone the method 
Zenith used to fit the battery was unfit for purpose and shouldnt have been used on her 
phone. 
We sent Mrs Ms comments to Zenith and asked for its response. The Operations Manager 
of its repairer gave a detailed response. In summary it said while a glued in battery was a 
permanent fixing the tape used on Mrs Ms phone wasnt a permanent fixing. Most phone 
manufacturers now used tape to hold the battery in place on mobile phones. 
Zeniths repairer also said it removes hundreds of batteries a year with the fixing used for 
Mrs Ms replacement battery without incident. And a trained, skilled repairer should have the 
tools and skills to easily change the battery with minimal risk of the phone being damaged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the phones manufacturers repairer told Mrs M that if it tried to remove her phones 
replacement battery the phone may break or burst into flames I understand she was 
concerned. But Zeniths repairers evidence that theres minimal risk of that happening for a 
trained, skilled repairer is persuasive. 
If the phone manufacturers repairer thought the battery had been glued in permanently that  
might explain why they were concerned at the risk of removing the battery. But as Ive said, 
the phone manufacturers repairer didnt remove the battery and I think its unlikely they 
would be able to tell whether Zenith used glue or 3m LSE tape to fix the replacement battery. 
Im satisfied that Zenith replaced the battery in Mrs Ms phone with the tape, which is a 
standard way to fix a phone battery. The evidence is that the tape doesnt mean the battery 
was permanently fixed in the phone, its removable safely by a trained, skilled repairer and 
Zeniths repairer changes many batteries fixed with the tape with no incident. 
Ive no reason to doubt the evidence from Zeniths repairer. I think the way Zenith fixed the 
replacement battery was fit for purpose.
Im satisfied that Zenith repaired Mrs Ms phone to a satisfactory standard with reasonable 
care and skill so Zenith isnt responsible for the phone manufacturer refusing to trade in 
Mrs Ms phone for payment. Zenith doesnt need to make any payment to Mrs M. I dont 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman