DRN-1485272
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) relates to the 
incorrect advice that paying off his account balance in months billing cycle would allow him 
to then use his entire credit limit immediately. As a consequence of that advice, Mr C feels 
he has lost out on a companion voucher and Avios points.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr C and AESEL, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to provide a fair and impartial answer to 
individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is 
appropriate.  
On the 18 September, Mr C wished to make a purchase for £5,393.60 but he didnt have 
enough credit on his account to do so as his balance at that time was £3,553.18. So, he 
called AESEL and was told that if he cleared the balance, as he suggested he would, then 
he would have sufficient credit to make his purchase. He duly did that but was then told that 
he would have to wait until the next billing cycle, which was on the 15 October, to be able to 
use his full credit limit. As such he couldnt make the purchase using his AESEL card.
Mr C was keen to use his AESEL card because it provided a benefit, in the form of a 
Companion Voucher for a free flight with British Airways. The underlying condition being that 
he would be required to spend £10,000 within a year. If he had been able to make his 
purchase he would have met the £10,000 spend requirement.
When Mr C made his complaint on the 25 October 2019 he argued that had he been 
permitted to make his intended purchase, then he would have met the qualifying conditions 
for the Companion Voucher. As he wasnt he said he had missed out on that benefit and the 
accumulation of 8090 Avios points which he would have received had he been allowed to 
make his purchase. Further that he had a loss of interest as he had used other resources.
AESEL recognised and accepted they had given incorrect advice and confirmed that their 
long-established business policy was that a customers credit limit could only be used once 
within a billing cycle. AESEL then credited Mr Cs Avios account with 10,000 points which 
put him back in the position he would have been had he been able to make his purchase. 
The excess of nearly 2,000 points AESEL feel would cover any lost interest Mr C would have 
incurred elsewhere.
That leaves the issue of the Companion Voucher. The terms of AESELs Companion 
Voucher were that one voucher per year could be earned. Mr C did in fact earn such a 
voucher in March 2020 and that was communicated to him on that months statement.  As 
such Mr C has not lost out for that year since he has obtained the voucher in any event. 
So, in conclusion I agree that Mr C lost the opportunity to earn the Avios points, but he was 
put back into the position he would have been in by the award of the 10,000 points. I can 
accept that Mr C will have had to use funds from elsewhere and hence there is the likelihood 
that it would have been more expensive for him, in terms of lost interest. But I feel the 
additional points awarded to him would be sufficient to cover that small amount of interest 
and that is sufficient. Mr C has not missed out on a Companion Voucher, because he has 
received it.
Putting all of this into the balance I think AESELs credit of the 10,000 Avios points is fair and 
reasonable and I do think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr C will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst AESEL have 
indeed made errors, I cant say AESEL has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
AESEL has already credited Mr C with 10,000 Avios points to settle this complaint, and I 
think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require AESEL to do 
anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman