DRN-3400732
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) will not refund the 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that in July 2021 Mr M fell 
victim to an investment scam. Mr M sent payments from his Halifax account to a 
cryptocurrency account he opened in his name as part of the scam, and then onto what he 
thought to be a genuine investment trader. But unfortunately, he had been speaking with a 
scammer. 
Mr M said he found the investment opportunity through an advert on social media, which 
advertised high gains in algorithm trading. He clicked on an advert and was taken to a 
website where he left his details including his name and phone number. Shortly thereafter he 
got a phone call from someone claiming to be a trader. They said that they would provide an 
account manager who would do the trading on his behalf. He said they told him he could 
make substantial profits in order to entice him to invest  claiming an investment of £250 
could go up to a value of £6,000 within a few months. Mr M said he thought the returns 
sounded high, but he trusted the algorithms, and thought their website looked genuine. 
The scammers persuaded him to open an account with a legitimate cryptocurrency platform 
in his name. He was originally only going to invest £250, but the scammers convinced him to 
send more which he initially did through a number of payments he sent from an account he 
held with another business. The scammers kept contacting him to say he needed to put 
more money into his investment, which led to him sending £3,000 from his Halifax account 
by faster payment to his cryptocurrency account, which he then converted to cryptocurrency 
and sent on to an e-wallet as instructed by the scammers.
The scam came to light when the scammers continued to ask Mr M to pay them money and 
claiming the investment had been declined. He called Halifax to ask why his account had 
been blocked when he tried to make a further payment, and during this conversation Mr M 
realised he had fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr M complained to Halifax. He accepted that he had made the payments himself but felt 
that Halifax should have done more to protect him from the scam. Halifax looked into what 
happened and declined to refund the losses. They said that: 
The payments were not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM 
code, so they were not liable to refund him under the provisions of this code. This 
was because the payments had gone to a cryptocurrency account that Mr M set up in 
his own name, that he had access to, so the loss had not occurred on his Halifax 
account; 
The payment was not unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ms recent 
account history. Mr M had made similar and larger payments within the previous 
twelve months. As such, they were not under any obligation to stop the payment or 
make further enquiries about it. 
Mr M was not satisfied with Halifaxs answer, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended that the 
complaint not be upheld. This was because they agreed that the CRM did not apply in this 
case, and also felt that there was nothing so unusual or out of character about the 
transaction that Halifax ought reasonably to have intervened. 
Mr M remained unhappy. In summary, he said that: 
He does not think the bank met their duty of care to him, given their extensive 
experience in such matters compared to his. They ought reasonably to have known 
he could have been dealing with a scammer; 
Halifax could have done more at the time of the payment to warn Mr M of the risk of 
authorised push payment scams; 
His Halifax account was the first point of contact for the scam. If he was unable to 
send the funds from his account to the cryptocurrency account, the scam would have 
been unsuccessful. So it is not relevant that it went to a genuine account in his name; 
He had done research since this happened to him, and pointed to numerous areas of 
law, regulation and protocols he said Halifax should have employed to prevent the 
scam or to refund him now; 
Our investigators opinion on the case remained unchanged. So, as there has been no 
agreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr M was the victim of a callous scam. I 
was saddened to hear of what he has been put through. So I would like to start by offering 
my sympathies for what he fell victim to, as I know this will have a significant impact on him. 
My role here is to assess Halifaxs actions against what they should have done  and having 
done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Halifax liable for Mr Ms 
losses. So, having considered everything, I am not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax 
should reimburse him with the money that was unfortunately lost to the scammers. Ill 
explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mr M was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. Mr M made the payments himself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. In this case, 
this does not include the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code as this code requires the payment to have gone directly to a scammer, and in 
this case the funds went to an account Mr M set up, had access to, and was in his name with the legitimate cryptocurrency platform. I appreciate Mr Ms objections to this, but the code is 
clear on this matter  and the code is not the only means by which we consider authorised 
push payment scams. So, based on the other relevant rules relating to authorised push 
payment scams, I think Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial hard from fraud. 
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Halifax should have been on the look-out for 
unusual and out of character transactions. But I agree with our Investigator in that I am not 
satisfied that the activity that took place on Mr Ms account during the scam was sufficiently 
unusual and out of character to have put Halifax on notice that he was at risk of fraud. Ill 
explain why.
Whilst I appreciate the value of the payment is not insignificant here, I dont consider that the 
total value of the payment in itself enough to be an indicator of fraud, warranting further 
action from Halifax. I think it is also worth noting that Mr M had made two other payments out 
of £3,000 within the two months prior to the scam payment, as well as numerous other 
payments of over £1,000 in the months prior to the scam  including making payments to 
new payees. The cryptocurrency account company is a legitimate company, and so whilst 
cryptocurrency can be utilised by scammers, I would not expect Halifax to be on notice about 
every payment that goes to this platform as many people use it for legitimate purposes. And 
so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say there was anything about this 
payment that wouldve stood out and given Halifax a reasonable basis for suspecting that Mr 
M was being defrauded or that he was at risk of financial harm. For this reason, I dont think 
it would be fair for me to say that Halifax ought reasonably to have stopped this payment or 
intervened in any way  and so by extension it would not be fair and reasonable to hold 
Halifax liable for Mr Ms loss  the fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves. 
Ive also considered what attempts Halifax made to recover the funds from the scammers. 
Unfortunately, as the payments went to a Coinbase account in his name before being sent 
on to the scammers, Halifax would not be expected to try and recover the funds. So I cannot 
say they have done anything wrong here. 
While I appreciate Mr M has been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Halifaxs 
decision to not to refund him the losses, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, is 
fair and reasonable. They followed Mr Ms instruction to make the payment and I havent 
seen any reason why they should not have done this. And I think they did all they could to 
try and recover Mr Ms funds when notified of the scam. 
I want to stress that I feel considerable sympathy for what Mr M has been through here. But 
unfortunately, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, Im not persuaded that this was a 
consequence of any specific failing on the part of Halifax.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman