DRN-2725549
The complaint
Mr F complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Amazon) lent to him irresponsibly in providing a 
credit card. 
What happened
Mr F applied for an Amazon credit card. The application was approved, and an account 
opened in May 2017, with a credit limit of £500.  In April 2020, following some arrears, 
Amazon passed the account to a third party. 
Mr F complained to Amazon  he felt it had acted irresponsibly in providing the card. He said 
hed struggled to manage his overall borrowing and Amazon should have looked into his 
circumstances before approving this card. But Amazon said it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think Amazon had acted irresponsibly by giving Mr F the credit card. 
He felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before reaching its lending 
decision  and that these checks didnt show anything that suggested Mr F couldnt afford 
the repayments. Mr F asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about Amazons decision to give Mr F a credit card with a limit of £500 and 
whether that was irresponsible. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and 
guidance for lenders to follow  these can be found in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Ive reviewed what this required Amazon to do at the time of Mr Fs credit card 
application.  
Before giving Mr F a credit card, Amazon was required to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment. This meant making reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
hed be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These checks werent just about how 
likely it was that it would get its money back  it had to focus on whether the repayments 
would adversely affect Mr Fs financial situation.
There was no set list of checks that Amazon had to complete, but it had to make sure the 
checks it had completed were proportionate in the circumstances. There were a number of 
factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the type and 
amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other financial 
commitments. 
For the amount in question, Id have expected Amazon to look at the information from the 
credit bureau (payment history and any details of arrears), the information provided in the 
application, and what it knew about Mr F from any prior interaction. 
Amazon has provided evidence showing it asked questions about Mr Fs income and 
expenditure during the application, as well as obtaining information from a credit bureau. In 
his application, he declared that he was in full-time employment with an annual income of 
£45,000, and that his partner had a similar net income to him of £2,786. He said he paid rent 
of £1200 and had other expenditure of £500. Credit bureau data showed Mr F had 9 active 
accounts with other financial businesses. It showed he had a total outstanding balance of 
around £38,800, with no recent defaults and no county court judgments (CCJs). 
I havent seen anything in the information revealed by these checks that shouldve given 
Amazon cause for concern that approving £500 credit would adversely affect Mr Fs financial 
situation. Although I have noted the balances, looking at the repayment history that had 
been obtained there was no evidence that Mr F was having difficulty meeting repayments on 
them. And at the time hed been managing another branded card with NewDay well. 
I think its key to consider the amount of credit provided on the Amazon card that would need 
to be repaid over a reasonable period (assuming all of the limit might be used by Mr F). And 
I dont think there was anything to indicate that the level of monthly payments on this would 
cause Mr F to struggle (even if further enquiries had been made). Particularly when taken 
with the other information Amazon had obtained. Overall, Im satisfied that these were 
reasonable and proportionate checks in the circumstances. Mr Fs situation may have 
changed afterwards but at the time the card was approved, I dont find Amazon acted 
irresponsibly or unfairly.
I know Mr F will be l disappointed with this decision but having looked at everything I cant 
say that Amazon has treated him unfairly when it provided him with this card and credit limit. 
It follows that I wont be asking Amazon to do anything in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman