DRN-3687527
The complaint
Mr L complains that the advice he was given in 2014 by Portal Financial Services LLP to 
transfer his personal pension plan (PPP) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) was 
unsuitable, and he has suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
In 2014 Mr L met with Portal to discuss his retirement planning and review his pension 
arrangements. As a result, in December 2014 Portal advised him to transfer a PPP he held 
into a Novia SIPP. 
In its suitability report it recorded his personal and financial circumstances as:
He was 50 years old and married
Lived in a mortgaged property, and owned a second investment property
Was in full time employment, with a total annual income of £45,600.
He had an occupational pension scheme which provided life assurance and death in 
service cover through his employer.
He had a second PPP
He had a monthly disposable income of £800.
Mr Ls attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as Balanced, and his stated objectives were:
Improved performance
Move away from equity backed funds
To have the opportunity to take tax free cash at age 55, and then take income at (his) 
desired retirement age (65).
Portal noted the PPP it was advising him to transfer away from had a 1% administration 
charge, and its average growth over five years was 10.86% per year.
Portal recommended Mr L hold the following investments within the SIPP:
Holding Overall Portfolio (%)
Cash 5.80
Dimensional Global Short-Dated Bond Fund 15.00
Dimensional Multi Factor Equity Fund 45.00
Lakeview 14.25The PPP was transferred on 3 February 2015 with a total value of £15,881.32. Portal took a 
initial advice fee of 5% of the fund value and an on-going 1% annual review fee. Novia also 
had a management charge of 0.5%.
On 5 August 2021 Mr L complained to Portal that it hadnt notified him of the collapse of the 
Real Estate USA fund. He also thought that Portal had mis-informed him of the nature of the 
investments in his SIPP and hed been poorly advised in 2014.
In its final response to his complaint, Portal said it had decided not to investigate it. It said it 
believed the complaint fell outside of the regulators time limits for raising a complaint.
Mr L didnt agree with this so referred his complaint to our service. As Portal objected to us 
considering it, our services jurisdiction over the complaint was the subject of an 
ombudsmans decision. This concluded that Mr Ls complaint was made within the time-
limits and was one our service could consider.
Having considered the merits of Mr Ls complaint, our investigator thought it should be 
upheld. In summary, he thought neither the advice to transfer, nor the investment funds 
selected were suitable for Mr L. And he set out the methodology he thought Portal should 
use to establish if Mr L had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice. And 
if a loss was identified, he told Portal how he thought Mr L should be compensated for this.
Mr L accepted the investigators view, but Portal didnt respond. So the complaint has come 
to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I have reconsidered whether this complaint is within the jurisdiction of our service, and 
I have reviewed all the evidence and arguments surrounding this. Having done so I see no 
reason to depart from the decision previously reached, so Im satisfied this complaint is one 
this service has the power to consider.
In respect of the merits of Mr Ls complaint, I agree with the investigator that it should be 
upheld, for broadly the same reasons. I also agree with the redress methodology the 
investigator set out.  Ill explain.
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mr L by Portal, I have to consider it in 
light of the information available when the advice was given, and not by using hindsight. Ive 
also looked at it in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the time. 
Within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated 
business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr L were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance was to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, took reasonable steps to provide advice that was suitable for their Real Estate USA 11.40
Strategic Residential 8.55clients needs and to ensure they werent inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objectives and risk profile. 
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I consider at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), published a checklist for 
pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it thought 
should be focussed on: 
Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason? 
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early. 
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances? 
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place. 
And in 2014, following a previous alert in 2013, the FCA issued an alert outlining its specific 
stance on advice provided about SIPPs. This wasnt new guidance, it was the regulator re-
stating its position, and was relevant to the advice Portal gave to Mr L:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then 
the overall advice is not suitable 
Overall, Im not satisfied Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
The advice to switch
When considering a case where someone has switched their pension funds, the consumers 
circumstances at the time must be considered. And in order to make the advice to switch 
suitable, the switch would need to be in the persons best interests. 
The SIPP, by Portals own admission, was more expensive, in terms of fees and charges, 
than Mr Ls current scheme. So there needed to be other compelling reasons why it was in 
Mr Ls best interests to switch at the point he did. And Im not satisfied that there were. 
Portal has shown that Mr Ls current PPP was growing by an average of 10.86% over the 
previous five years. So, with the higher charges associated with the SIPP and the fees for 
the advice Portal were giving, the investment growth would need to be significantly more 
than that being achieved by his PPP. But in its recommendation section Portal said:
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.But it would have been important for Mr L to understand the potential growth that the 
investments in the proposed SIPP might achieve, so he could make an informed decision. 
Other than the general statement above, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Portal 
gave Mr L any comparison to show him whether the investments within the recommended 
SIPP were likely to provide a greater return at retirement. So I cant see how Mr L could 
have made a fully informed decision and formed the view that hed be better off at retirement 
by investing in the SIPP.
Portal, in its suitability report, recorded Mr Ls ATR as Balanced. It explained this in the 
following way: 
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. 
They may have some experience of investment, including investing in products 
containing risky assets such as equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk 
in order to be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to 
take risk with at least part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a 
gamble provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. 
They will usually be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively 
quickly, but do still suffer from some feelings of regret when their decisions turn 
out badly.
Ive not seen anything which leads me to think that the funds Mr L had within his existing 
PPP were unsuitable or didnt match his ATR, circumstances or objectives. And there is also 
nothing to indicate he wouldve been unable to take tax-free cash at 55 years old had he 
remained in his PPP, which he had specifically given as one of his objectives. 
So, given the higher fees and charges associated with the SIPP, and that I cant see that the 
funds Mr L was already invested in were unsuitable, Im not persuaded that Portals 
recommendation for him to switch his existing pension funds into a SIPP was suitable 
advice. Had Portal more thoroughly explored his aims and considered his circumstances, I 
think it, and Mr L, would have determined it would be better if he stayed in his existing PPP. 
And, at the very least, it could have explored the fund switches that were available to him 
within his existing scheme without incurring the same level of fees associated with the SIPP.
The suitability of the underlying investments
When considering the type of investments Mr L could make, Portal had a duty of care to 
make sure the investment advice was suited to Mr Ls ATR and his experience of 
investments.
Over 34% of the investment funds Portal advised Mr L to hold in his SIPP were classed as 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). In July 2010 the FSA issued guidance 
about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor Practice report. This contained 
examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for example where a firm 
had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where 
those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated investments. An example 
of bad practice given by the FSA was where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested 
in a single UCIS. And contrary to what the regulator said, Portal recommended that over 
34% of Mr Ls pension was invested across three UCIS funds. This is highly relevant to my 
consideration.UCIS are generally considered to be high risk investments. This is because they are 
unregulated, have liquidity risks, and have a high degree of volatility. They also have little or 
no track record, so it is difficult to value them accurately. Im not persuaded that Mr L, having 
a balanced ATR, had the risk appetite or the experience to match the investments Portal 
recommended for him. And I cannot see hed have fully understood the nature, and the 
associated risks, of the investments he entered into. Whilst I accept Portal set out various 
risk warnings, this alone isnt enough to make unsuitable investments become suitable.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (formerly the FSA) also said that UCIS was only eligible for 
promotion to a certain type of customer  usually sophisticated, high net worth investors, or 
one of the eight categories detailed in COBS 4.12. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L 
was the type of investor who might be deemed suitable to invest in such funds.
Having taken everything into account, I agree that Portals recommendation to switch Mr Ls 
PPP into a SIPP was unsuitable. Im also satisfied that Portals advice to invest Mr Ls 
pension provision into the UCIS funds was unsuitable. So Portal is responsible for any 
losses to the value of Mr Ls pension plan.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have remained with his previous provider in the PPP. 
However I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy 
would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, 
taking this into account and given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's pension with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr L wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr L asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr L provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr L's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr L's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something that Mr L can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr L an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because Mr L wanted Capital growth with a 
small risk to his capital.
But If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr L's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr L into that position. It does not mean that Mr L 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr L could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman