DRN-3780362
The complaint
Miss N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have provided her poor customer service in relation 
to a credit card account.
What happened
Miss N received a letter from Lloyds dated 13 September 2021. The letter informed her that 
she may have been making repayments to one of her credit cards that she couldnt afford. 
This was because they mightnt have taken into account all of her income and outgoings she 
had at the time. The timeframe related to when Miss Ns account was passed to a debt 
recovery agent, who acted on Lloyds behalf. Miss N made a complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds upheld Miss Ns complaint. They said that a rectification process had been carried out 
in November 2018, following a review of their processes, and they wrote to customers who 
they felt theyd charged interest unfairly. They said in Miss Ns case, as she hadnt paid the 
balance, they applied a refund of £41.57 to her account and they told her the dates they 
used to calculate any refunds were fixed in time, and therefore not negotiable. They offered 
Miss N £50 compensation for this. Miss N did not accept this, and she continued with her 
complaint. 
Miss N didnt hear back from Lloyds, so she brought her complaint to our service. Lloyds 
explained there had been an error in closing the complaint down, so they issued Miss N 
another response dated 15 September 2022. This letter said that Lloyds were sorry that they 
didnt take her concerns regarding the debt recovery agent more seriously, however, as they 
are independent to Lloyds, they have their own complaints process. They said that as they 
hadnt made Miss N aware of this, they enclosed a cheque for £150, to help restore her faith 
with Lloyds. They also said if she had concerns regarding the debt recovery agent and 
wanted them investigated, then she needed to contact the debt recovery agent and she was 
given their telephone number. 
Our investigator said that he thought the £150 compensation was fair. He said that as part of 
a review, Lloyds said they felt the interest she incurred in September and October 2015 was 
charged unfairly due to her financial circumstances. As such, they refunded her £41.57, 
which put her back into the correct financial standing.
Our investigator said that Lloyds also recognised that the repayments Miss N was making as 
part of a repayment plan was potentially unaffordable to her and £50 compensation was 
previously offered to her to recognise the distress caused, which our investigator thought it 
was a fair offer. He said the repayments she was making was going towards her borrowing, 
and as this was £5 a month for a period of nine months, he considered any impact to be 
minimal.
Our investigator said that when Miss N raised concerns around her repayment plan in 
September 2021, her concerns werent fully addressed and her complaint was closed early 
whereas they shouldve given her a response, so to recognise their errors outlined above, 
Lloyds increased their offer to a total of £150 compensation, which he thought was fair.
Miss N asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said Lloyds denied and repeatedly dismissed all of her complaints and that 
they only responded when she brought her complaint to our service. Miss N said that they 
had not been sympathetic to her health condition and they forced her to ask her family 
members to pay off her debts by asking for payments which were unaffordable to her, which 
in turn had left her with an unaffordable debt to pay back to her family. She said that she is 
being left with no food to eat, due to the way Lloyds forced money out of her which was 
unaffordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to be clear from the outset about what Ill be addressing here as part of this 
complaint. Im aware that the outcome of a separate complaint about Lloyds has already 
been issued to Miss N by an Ombudsman and as such, I wont be able to cover off any 
points which have already been considered as part of that complaint. Instead, Ill be focusing 
on the contents of the letter she received dated 13 September 2021 about a credit card 
account, the interest which was charged, potential repayments on the credit card being too 
high and Lloyds providing poor service by closing down her complaint she raised without 
responding to her.
I also must be clear that the letter she received dated 13 September 2021, covered one 
credit card and no other accounts she held with Lloyds. So Im only able to take this one 
account into consideration when assessing whether Lloyds treated Miss N fairly. If she 
wishes to complain about any specific actions of the debt recovery agent, then she should 
be able to raise a complaint with them directly. If she wishes to complain about how Lloyds 
treated her regarding any other accounts or any other issues shes had with them (other than 
the ones Ive mentioned Ill be looking into), she will need to make a new complaint to Lloyds 
about any separate issues  if she hasnt already done so. 
Lloyds appointed the debt recovery agent for Miss N from October 2018-August 2020. The 
rectification process which Lloyds carried out in November 2018 discovered that she 
shouldnt have paid interest on her balance in September and October 2015. As a result of 
this, they refunded £41.57 to the account. Im satisfied that this put Miss N in the position 
that she should have been in if they hadnt of charged her interest in these months.
Ive considered what Lloyds and Miss N has said about the letter informing her that she may 
have been making payments to one of her credit cards that she couldnt afford. Miss N has 
detailed the impact that this has had on her for all of her accounts. But because Im only able 
to consider the specific credit card which they wrote to her here, I can only look at what 
potential impact these payments would have had on her. Lloyds have provided me with Miss 
Ns payment history on this account. I can see that she made repayments of £5 on what 
appears to be nine occasions over the 22 month period that the debt recovery agent was 
appointed by Lloyds. 
Miss N was not making a payment every month, or even every couple of months on this 
particular account. And I can understand why, given the circumstances shes detailed that 
she was going through at the time. Thats not to say that these nine payments would not 
have an impact on her financial circumstances, but even if Lloyds did not collect a payment on these nine occasions, then Miss N would have £5 available to use for other expenses if it 
was not affordable to her on the occasions she paid the £5. So the payments Miss N made 
shows that she was trying to pay Lloyds when she was able to do so here.
Ive considered what Miss N has said about Lloyds dismissing her complaint and them only 
responding to her once she had brought her complaint to our service. Lloyds have explained 
this was due to the debt recovery agent being independent from them, and they have their 
own complaints process. But they should have made her aware of this. They also voided 
Miss Ns complaint in error, therefore they needed to reopen it and investigate this.
So Im persuaded that Lloyds have let Miss N down on several occasions about the events 
that shes complained about here. First they charged her interest, which they shouldnt have 
done, then Miss N may have been paying £5 on nine occasions which may not have been 
affordable for her. In addition to this, Lloyds failed to respond to Miss N and didnt inform her 
that the debt recovery agent had their own complaints process and voided her complaint 
incorrectly. So Im satisfied that these issues would have had an impact on Miss N and 
cause her distress.
So Ive considered whether the £150 that Lloyds have sent her is fair for these issues. I 
know Miss N does not feel this reflects the impact that the issues had on her. But Im 
persuaded that the compensation offered was fair and Ill explain why. Compensation is a 
discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted 
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and 
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is 
often modest and within our established guidelines.
So Im persuaded that £150 compensation is fair here. Im satisfied it recognises the impact 
of Miss N being charged interest when she shouldnt have been, that she may have been 
paying repayments that were more than what were affordable to her, Lloyds not telling her 
that the debt recovery agent had their own complaints procedure and them voiding her 
complaint in error. 
If Lloyds did not uphold Miss Ns complaint, then £150 would have been broadly in line with 
what I would have awarded her, so Im pleased to see that Lloyds increased their offer from 
£50 to £150 to take into account what happened here. As cheques usually have an expiry 
date of six months, Miss N may wish to ensure that she deposits the cheque Lloyds have 
already sent her before it expires  if she has not already done so. But I dont require Lloyds 
to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman