DRN-2937462
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that Investment Funds Direct Limited misled them relating to an instruction 
they gave to switch funds within Mrs Cs existing investment ISA. Consequently, they were 
forced to encash it. Further, the misleading information caused a delay which led Mrs C to 
suffer a financial loss. Mr and Mrs C say that Investment Funds Direct Limited ought to 
compensate Mrs C by putting right that loss.   
What happened
Mrs C held a stocks and shares ISA with Investment Funds Direct Limited, part of the Royal 
London Group. 
Mr C made a total of 22 calls to Royal London in March 2020, relating to Mrs Cs ISA. A 
summary of the calls as relevant to the background of this complaint are set out below, 
though I have considered all of the communications and evidence supplied to this service.  
On 10 March 2020, Mr C contacted Royal London to discuss switching the underlying fund, 
as the investment had recently dropped in value. The fund at that time was the Royal 
London Sustainable Managed Income Trust D Account. He asked to switch to the Stirling 
Credit fund. 
However, this was a fund operated by independent financial advisers, and not open to Mrs C 
without seeking further advice. Mr C called again the same day to ask to switch to a different 
fund but the relevant department had closed at 5:00pm  though Mr C had understood the 
telephone lines would be open to 7:00pm.  
On 11 March 2020, Mr C called Royal London again, noting this time that Mrs C wanted to 
switch to the Royal London Sustainable Managed Income Trust but the customer service 
advisers were not able to facilitate this  though it was noted that Mrs C could not switch to 
that fund. Mr C says they were left without any knowledge of what funds they could choose 
from because the call handlers have a lack of specialism regarding the funds open to Mrs 
Cs specific investment ISA. Royal London says it set out the three funds Mrs C could 
change to.  
On 12 March 2020, Mr C called Royal London again, asking to change Mrs Cs ISA fund to 
the one identified the day before. However, this time Mr C was told a fund switch had to be 
actioned by post, not through a telephone call. And, he was not given the same information 
as the day before  where it had been said this was not a fund open to Mrs C within her 
investment product. This was because the call handler incorrectly assumed the switch was 
to one of the three available funds open to Mrs Cs ISA. Therefore, a fund transfer form was 
sent out and received by Mrs C on 13 March 2020 when it shouldnt have been sent. 
On 16 March 2020, Mr C called Royal London to ask again about the fund suggested on 11 
March 2020, this time by calling the number for the relevant team on the fund switch form he 
and Mrs C had received. They were then told that this fund wasnt one they could switch to, 
as had been set out on 11 March 2020. By this time, Royal London correctly explained that 
the ISA had three specific funds that could be chosen from and what they were.
However, Mrs C confirmed she wanted to close the investment. This was notified by Mr C in 
a call on 17 March 2020 and completed the following day. By this time, the value of the ISA 
had dropped by over £10,000.  
Mr C complained on Mrs Cs behalf. He said that if Royal London had a suitable office 
system in place, they would have been able to switch Mrs Cs funds on 10 or 11 March 
2020, and therefore avoided a loss.   
Royal London upheld the complaint. It said completely agreed that Mr and Mrs C had been 
misinformed. It confirmed that the customer service representatives that Mr C had spoken to 
did not hold the correct knowledge to advise Mrs C of her options. For that, it offered a 
compensation payment of £350, as these errors had caused Mrs C to lose faith in Royal 
London and subsequently disinvest. 
Mr C said if Royal London had allowed the correct fund switch to the Royal London 
Sustainable Managed Income Trust D Account, they wouldnt have lost such a great deal of 
the ISA value and theyd still have Mrs Cs funds invested in the ISA now. He said Mrs C did 
not accept that £350 was sufficient compensation for what went on or the loss she had 
suffered. 
Royal London said the fund switch was never completed, nor had the withdrawn money 
been invested in a similar way. It therefore did not believe any comparison could be made to 
suggest what Mrs C would have done. The fact she suffered an investment loss was due to 
a financial downturn at the time. It did not think it ought to undertake calculations based on 
theoretic investment events. On that basis, it was not willing to change its offer to resolve the 
matter from the £350 previously suggested.  
Mr and Mrs C therefore brought Mrs Cs complaint to this service. Mr C also reiterated that 
the value of Mrs Cs ISA was said to be for 17 March 2020 but Royal London had actually 
used the unit value of 18 March 2020  which was approximately £180 lower. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint and felt it should succeed. She 
noted that while the request made by Mr C could not have been satisfied, Royal London had 
failed to correct that misunderstanding. It prolonged matters for several days and by the time 
Mr and Mrs C had made the decision to encash Mrs Cs investment, it had lost value. She 
therefore proposed that Royal London should make good 50% of the loss, as both parties 
had contributed to the issue. She said to that loss calculation, Royal London should pay 8% 
interest with a further £350 to represent the loss of expectation and upset caused to Mrs C. 
Royal London accepted the investigators findings, and on her instruction it provided a loss 
calculation to Mr and Mrs C directly as at 8 June 2021. 
However, Mr C queried the redress with both Royal London and our investigator  he felt 
that they had been misled from the first calls on 10 March, not 12 March 2020. Mr C also 
made a number of additional written submissions. He said he and Mrs C wanted the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He said, in summary:
he recognises he had completely missed the switching information regarding the 
three funds in the documentation issued with the ISA;
but Royal London failed to guide him through that misunderstanding and explain 
about moving to one of the other two funds;
he expects Royal London to bring his misunderstanding to his attention, as it was in 
an informed position and he (on Mrs Cs behalf) was a retail customer;Royal London accepted that its customer service handlers didnt have the right 
knowledge to assist him;
the difference between switches and transfers has confused matters;
it remains the case that Royal London didnt have the relevant financial helpline staff 
available when required;
the goalposts have moved now  Royal London didnt refer back to the three funds 
until after the complaint was referred to this service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the effort Mr C has gone to in explaining Mrs Cs position and the issues that led 
to her withdrawing the remaining funds from her ISA. Though I will not be addressing each 
point in full, I have given careful consideration to the evidence available and the subsequent 
ongoing comments from both parties. 
In my view, I believe the complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why I agree with the 
redress now proposed. In brief, my reasons for that are:
Notwithstanding that the helpline wasnt open as Mr C expected to 7:00pm, I dont 
believe Royal Londons call handlers made errors during the calls of 10 and 11 
March 2020  the information given about the funds and options open to Mrs C was 
accurate and Royal London does not provide an advisory service. 
When Mr C first made the request to switch funds for Mrs C on 10 March 2020, he 
did not ask for one of the available funds within the Royal London ISA. 
Due to a misunderstanding about the funds, Mr C asked for a switch to a fund which 
would not have been open within the constraints of Mrs Cs ISA. That was initiated by 
Mr C and Royal London responded to his specific request. No wider request was 
made for information about how the ISA operated.  
As it was, Mrs Cs Royal London Investment ISA is limited to only three funds:
oRoyal London Sustainable Managed Growth,
oRoyal London Sustainable Diversified Trust; or
oRoyal London Sustainable World Trust.
This was regardless of whether Mrs C had an IFA appointed or not. I recognise Mr C 
did not realise that when he placed calls on 10 and 11 March 2020  but Royal 
London responded to him on the basis of the request he made on Mrs Cs behalf. 
If Mrs C had wanted access to a wider range of funds, she would have been required 
to transfer those funds to a new product or other ISA provider. 
The information about funds and fund switches was set out in clear terms in the 
documentation supplied with the investment and Royal London wasnt able to act 
outside of the ISAs relevant terms. 
I do not believe Royal London is at fault for the initial misunderstanding around the 
funds or that Mr and Mrs C felt that they needed to make a time critical decision 
during a period where the financial markets had experienced a sharp downturn. 
However, I agree that Royal Londons call handlers made mistakes on 12 March 
2020 which not only perpetuated the misunderstanding, but prolonged it by insisting 
that a switch form be completed  even though this could not have happened. 
This caused a delay to 17 March 2020, and the funds were not actually sold until the 
following day following Mr Cs request to encash Mrs Cs ISA.  
Mr and Mrs C clearly wanted to take some action with Mrs Cs ISA, due to marked 
and significant losses during this period. If Mr and Mrs C had wanted to switch to one of the available funds, I believe theyd 
have likely done so, but instead they decided to close the ISA altogether. 
I therefore agree that the redress ought to determine what the ISAs value would 
have been as at 12 March 2020, as they could have sold the funds then if not for the 
mistakes made by Royal London.
I also agree that, in the circumstances where both parties have contributed to the 
misunderstanding that a 50% split of the liability for the loss is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to the complaint. Royal London could not have ever actioned Mr Cs actual 
request, and it did not provide advice on fund transfers. However, it could have 
facilitated the sale of the funds sooner than it did, and proposing half of the lost value 
for the period of delay is the most appropriate suggestion in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
I believe the redress proposed by Royal London as at 8 June 2021 was reasonable in the 
circumstances. That was for a payment to Mrs C of £3,961.34, representing 50% of the loss 
on the ISA fund between 12 March 2020 and the sale instructed on 17 March 2020 and 
completed on 18 March 2020.  
To that value, interest has been calculated to the date the offer was formally put to Mrs C, 
which I believe is correctly calculated. Though Mr and Mrs C reasonably asked for the matter 
to be passed to an ombudsman, I believe the 8% interest should end at this date, given the 
offer remains unchanged and there was no challenge to the basis on which the redress was 
put by this time. This value is £326.18 from 12 March 2020 to 8 June 2021. 
Finally, Royal London has proposed to pay £350 compensation for the distress it has 
caused. I believe that is reasonable because:
in having provided the wrong instructions from 12 March onwards, as well as the 
inability of the relevant helpline staff in the first instance, Mrs C has been caused 
upset and inconvenience, for which compensation should be awarded;
this service can only make such awards where the consequences of a business 
mistake have had an impact on an eligible complainant  that being Mrs C, not Mr C. 
nonetheless, I can see the concerns the impact of the mistakes made by Royal 
London would have had on Mrs C at a particularly worrying time. I agree £350 is a 
reasonable award within the range of sums this service would propose for 
inconvenience of the nature described by Mr C. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve the complaint, Investment Funds Direct Limited 
must pay the total redress calculation set out above to Mr and Mrs C. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 October 2021. 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman