DRN-3437790
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the deductions he says TSB Bank plc made from transfers to a 
family member living overseas. 
What happened
Towards the end of 2021, Mr S decided to transfer a substantial sum of money to a family 
member who lives overseas.  So he went to his local TSB branch to arrange this.  Because 
of the amount involved, Mr S had to make two transfers.  He says he was told there would 
be a charge of £20 per transfer.  
A few days after the transfers were made, Mr S found out that his relative had received the 
transfers  but a total of £4,290 had been deducted from the balance.  He contacted TSB to 
find out why.  TSB werent able to address his concerns in the branch so logged a complaint.
Having investigated, TSB didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.  They said their records showed 
theyd followed the correct process for making an international transfer  including advising 
Mr S that the receiving bank may charge fees and checking if Mr S wanted him or the 
beneficiary to be responsible for those.
TSB explained they couldnt be certain what deductions might be made because exchange 
rates fluctuate by the minute.  And they said the receiving bank sometimes uses an 
intermediary  which also makes a charge.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded TSB didnt need to do anything more to resolve it.  She noted 
the payment instructions for the transactions show the only charge TSB made for sending 
the money was the £20 fee.  She noted that other charges were to be charged to the 
beneficiary  which would explain why Mr Ss relative had received less than he sent.  And 
she couldnt hold TSB responsible for that.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr S has found this situation very stressful.  Im sorry about that.  But I can only 
decide TSB should do something more to resolve his complaint if Im satisfied they did 
something wrong  and that had a negative impact on Mr S.
The transfers were set up during a meeting at the branch.  Ive been given two versions of 
what was said there.  Mr S says he was only told about the £20 fees (of which he paid two).  
TSB say their staff followed the correct process, which included advising the recipient bank 
might make charges and confirming who should pay those.  
Neither party has provided any supporting evidence for what they say happened at that 
meeting.  So Ive had to rely on other information to reach my decision.  And Ive borne in 
mind that its reasonable to expect some costs because of the need to convert what is sent 
and that both the sending and receiving bank may make a charge.  
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account.  They include a section on making 
international payments and refer to TSBs Banking Charges guide for details of the costs  
which states TSB will charge £20.  So Im satisfied this charge was made clear  and that it 
was in line with the information available to Mr S.
Ive also looked at the details of the payment made.  I can see that it was made to the 
overseas bank in sterling.  TSBs terms and conditions say:
If you make a payment to a foreign country in pounds, the bank in the foreign country will 
set the exchange rate.
That means TSB had no way of knowing exactly how much Mr Ss relative would receive.  
And, while I can see the payment instruction shows the beneficiary will be responsible for 
any charges (which Mr S says were $12 in the local currency), Ive been given no details to 
show that what amount was lost in the currency conversion.
Ive seen an email the TSB manager sent to Mr S suggesting he speak to the beneficiary 
bank about what deductions may have been made from the amount sent.   
I asked our investigator to make enquiries about whether Mr Ss relative had done that. Mr S 
says the overseas bank told his relative the amount had been reduced before it was paid to 
their account.  But Ive not been given any information about the point at which the costs of 
converting the sterling payment to local currency were taken.
In the absence of any information of that sort, Im not satisfied that the amount Mr S sent 
overseas was reduced by anything more than the recipient bank charges and the cost of 
conversion from sterling to the local currency.  The terms and conditions of his account 
make it clear that will happen.  And so I dont think TSB need to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman