DRN-2877364
Complaint
Mrs M says Pinnacle Insurance Plc mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Although another business sold the policy to Mrs M, Pinnacle has accepted responsibility for 
this complaint.
Background
In 2004, the policy was sold to Mrs M at the same time as a loan to buy a car. The policy  
provided cover in the event she was unable to work due to accident, sickness and critical 
illness. The policy also would have paid a benefit in the unfortunate event of death.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Pinnacle disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
On 28 April 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I disagreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. And I gave Mrs M and 
Pinnacle an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mrs M, which isnt 
surprising given the sale took place over 16 years ago. As a result, Pinnacle hasnt been 
able to provide copies of Mrs Ms actual paperwork from the time of the sale. But it has sent 
us a sample copy of the credit agreement it says is the same as the one Mrs M would have 
signed at the time she took out the loan and the PPI was sold to her. In the absence of 
anything persuasive to suggest the application form differed from the one Mrs M completed 
and signed, I think its more likely than not that the form represented what Mrs M would have 
seen at the time of the sale.
In order to apply PPI to Mrs Ms loan, Pinnacle had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy 
was optional and it needed to gain her consent. Looking at the sample two-page credit 
agreement, under the section titled Credit Protection Plan, it reads If you want to buy the 
optional Life, Accident, Sickness,  Credit Protection Plan please tick the box. The sample 
document also explains the monthly cost, which is shown separately to the cost of the loan. 
The sample credit agreement appears to be identical to one of the pages sent to us from  
Mrs M - the customer consent and signature page.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has said, including that she was unaware of the PPI 
policy, and the information that has been provided by both parties. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not the PPI would have been presented as an optional 
product and that Mrs M would have had to tick a box to agree to the PPI. Im also satisfied 
that the monthly cost and the benefits of the policy would have been set out on the credit 
agreement Mrs M signed. So, I think if this was not what Mrs M had agreed to, this section of 
the credit agreement is likely to have prompted her to question the cover and additional cost 
before signing it.
Taking all of this into account, I think its more likely than not that PPI was presented as 
optional and Mrs M chose to take it. 
Because Pinnacle no longer holds all the paperwork from the time of sale, it doesnt know if 
PPI was recommended to Mrs M or not. So having thought carefully about everything that 
has been said and the information provided by both parties, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Pinnacle made a detailed assessment of Mrs Ms circumstances or 
tailored a recommendation. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means 
Pinnacle didnt have to check if it was right for Mrs M. But it did have to make sure she got 
the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Pinnacle gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs M was eligible for the cover and she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical 
conditions. It also looks like the policy was affordable. 
Mrs M has told us she would have been entitled to between six months and twelve months 
pay if she was too unwell to work. She also says she had up to three months in savings 
which she could have used.
Having thought about what Mrs M has said about her sick pay and her savings, I dont think 
this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs M would have received from her employer and would 
have potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay  until Mrs M 
returned to work. The PPI also would have paid a benefit in the event of death or critical 
illness. By having PPI, it also would have enabled Mrs M to use her savings to cover any 
other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a difficult time.
So overall, I think Mrs M could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. I have not received a response from Pinnacle and Mrs Ms representative 
confirmed they had nothing to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
As neither Mrs M nor Pinnacle provided any further evidence for me to look at, Ive reached 
the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. So I dont 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 Donna Parsons
Ombudsman