DRN-1789896
The complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral):
took into account an accident his daughter had which wasnt her fault in assessing 
the premium for her car when her motor insurance policy came to be renewed; and
didnt make it clear it would do this when he first took out insurance with Admiral.
What happened
Mr J had a multi-car motor insurance policy with Admiral which he first took out in 2015. In 
2018, his daughter Miss Js car, which was included on the policy, was involved in an 
accident which wasnt her fault. Admiral didnt have to pay out on this policy, so the accident 
and claim were treated as non-fault for the purposes of this policy.
When the policy came to be renewed in August 2019, the premium for Miss Js car 
increased from £573.19 to £791.59. When Mr J investigated this, Admiral told him that where 
a policyholder had made a non-fault claim, although it wouldnt affect their no claims 
discount it would be taken into account in assessing their premium on renewal of the policy.
Mr J thought this was unfair, and was something which should have been made clear to him 
when he first took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral in 2015. In response to his 
complaint, Admiral said:
it took non-fault claims into account in setting premiums because its claims 
experience showed it was reasonable to do so;
it pointed to the following section of Mr Js policy wording (contained in a box 
surrounded by a red line) which it said clearly set out its policy:
IMPORTANT - PROTECTED NO CLAIMS BONUS
If you make a claim during your insurance term you will not earn any No Claims               
Bonus entitlement for that insurance term. Where your No Claims Bonus remains 
unaffected, in most instances a claim will lead to some increase in premium at renewal.
it said it had listened to a recording of the phone call between Admiral and Mr J when 
he first took out the policy in August 2015. Its representative explained that in the call 
she had discussed the main characteristics of the policy but not all the terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr J wanted 
customers to be told if insurers calculated premiums in this way when they took out a policy. 
However, we couldnt tell an insurer how to operate its business  that was the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as its regulator.
Our role was to see that Admiral had treated its policyholders fairly and reasonably and in 
accordance with its terms and conditions, and had treated Miss J in the same way as it 
would have treated someone else in her position.
He pointed to another section of Mr Js policy document which said:
Protected or guaranteed No Claims Bonus does not protect the overall price of your 
insurance policy. The price of your insurance policy may increase following an accident even 
if you were not at fault.
So he thought the information relating to premium increase even after a non-fault claim was 
clear and transparent.
Mr J had said he didnt receive the policy document in 2015. The investigator said this was a 
key document containing some very important information within it such as the claim 
process, policy exclusions and complaint process. He thought Mr J should have enquired in 
2015 if he didnt receive it. 
The investigator said Admiral had provided him with confidential and sensitive business 
information to explain how Miss Js increased premium was calculated on renewal in August 
2019. From this he was satisfied it was calculated correctly in accordance with Admirals 
underwriting practices, and in the same way as would have applied to any other customer in 
the same position as Miss J.
Mr J responded to say, in summary, that he thought it should be incumbent on insurers to be 
fair and transparent to customers when they sold polices. His main complaint was that 
Admiral didnt point out to him that it could calculate premiums using non-fault claims 
information, either at the time he bought the policy on the phone in August 2015, or 
subsequently in writing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has said, its for the FCA as the regulator of insurance companies to say 
if it requires any particular piece of information, such as how renewal premiums will be 
calculated, to be placed before consumers in any particular way. However, it hasnt made 
any rules about the use an insurer makes of non-fault claims information, or how this should 
be disclosed. 
In this case Admirals representative made it clear in the initial phone call that she had 
discussed the main characteristics of the policy, but not all the terms and conditions.
The policy is an important document and contains important information about how the 
policy will operate, for example if a claim has to be made. So we expect policyholders to 
have made sure they have received it and are aware of its main provisions. If Mr J didnt 
receive this in 2015, I would have expected him to chase Admiral to provide a copy in 2015, 
or on renewal in 2016, 2017, 2018 or 2019.
From the excerpts I have quoted above, I think the policy makes it clear to policyholders that 
their premium may be affected after an accident which wasnt their fault. The way Admiral 
calculates its premiums is a matter for its commercial judgment, with which we wont 
normally interfere.Im satisfied that on renewal in August 2019 Admiral calculated Miss Js premium in 
accordance with its normal underwriting practices, and as it would for any other customer in 
the same position as Miss J. So I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman