DRN-2088358
The complaint
Mrs W is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing her complaint. 
The CMC says she was mis-sold an investment ISA in February 2008 by an adviser from 
Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Halifax). 
What happened
Mrs W surrendered her ISA in December 2014. She had made an initial investment of 
£7,000 and hadnt made any withdrawals since that time. In late 2019, the CMC complained 
to Halifax that it had been mis-sold. It said Mrs W had recently realised she had not received 
a reasonable return on her investment, having surrendered it for £9,812.37. 
Further, the CMC said Mrs W should not have been advised to invest in high-cost managed 
funds with an asset allocation heavily-weighted towards equities. The CMC said that as a 
resolution to the complaint, it required Halifax to undertake a redress calculation of the 
performance of Mrs Ws ISA to that of the FTSE Private Investor Balanced Index, less the 
surrender value she had received and plus interest. 
Halifax upheld the complaint in November 2019. It said the advice given by its adviser may 
not have been entirely suitable for Mrs Ws circumstances. Whilst it was of the view than an 
ISA had been a suitable recommendation for Mrs Ws circumstances, it felt that the 
investment had provided more risk than Mrs W was prepared to accept. 
It therefore carried out a calculation to show the position Mrs W would have been in had she 
taken a more appropriate level of risk by undertaking a comparison with an equal 
combination of the published Bank of England Bond Rate and the FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income Index. Having done so, it calculated she had made a capital gain and therefore no 
compensation was due to Mrs W. 
The CMC brought Mrs Ws complaint to this service. It said Halifax has used the wrong 
redress method for calculating if Mrs W had suffered a loss. It submitted that Mrs W had 
been happy with a medium level of risk, and therefore it was inappropriate to use a 
benchmark which included 50% of deposit-based returns. Halifax said it disagreed that a 
medium risk fund was suitable for a first time inexperienced investor, and it had upheld the 
complaint on that basis.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it should succeed. She agreed 
with the benchmark used by Halifax in establishing whether Mrs W has suffered a loss as a 
result of its unsuitable advice. She said Halifax had recognised that Mrs W didnt fully 
understand the risks of investing in the medium risk portfolio, and as a result it had proposed 
a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mrs W in line with the Financial Ombudsman 
Services approach to redress.
The CMC said that Mrs W disagreed. It said the evidence demonstrated that Mrs W was 
willing to invest the full £7,000 in order to have the potential for better growth than deposit 
accounts. It therefore took the view that it makes no sense therefore to use deposit accounts 
as the benchmark for 50% of the redress calculation.
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator. I do not believe 
Halifax ought to do anything differently in respect of its redress calculation.  
This complaint has been upheld and there isnt a requirement for me to review that outcome, 
since both parties agree that Halifax shouldnt have made the recommendation it did at the 
time of the sale in 2014. Where the parties disagree is over the offer Halifax has made to put 
matters right.  
At the time of the advice, Mrs W was aged 57 and she had approximately £47,500 in 
deposit-based accounts. The adviser proposed that she consider both the ISA and a further 
investment for an additional £23,000  though Mrs W refused the second recommendation.  
For the ISA, it was determined that Mrs W ought to have invested into the medium portfolio. 
This was made up of a split of three equity-based funds (totalling 72%) and a further 
corporate bond fund. 
Whilst Mrs Ws objective was to receive better growth than she could achieve from deposit-
based accounts alone, she had no prior experience of investments of this nature, and 
therefore was willing to take a limited degree of risk, but at the cautious end of the scale. 
I disagree with the CMC that Mrs W was prepared to take a medium level of risk. That was 
the conclusion of the adviser at the time of the sale; but given Mrs Ws position as a first time 
investor who had retained a significant proportion of her funds on deposit, the adviser should 
not reasonably have reached that conclusion. I believe it more likely that Mrs W wished to 
take a low or more cautious level of risk given her circumstances. Halifax has upheld the 
complaint on that basis and undertaken a 50/50 comparison using the FTSE Income Index  
but the CMC says including deposit-based accounts is unreasonable, and the Balanced 
Index is a fairer benchmark.  
My view is that this redress calculation was the most appropriate in the circumstances. Had 
this complaint been upheld at this service, the appropriate redress would use the benchmark 
of FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) for half of the investment and for the other 
half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
I do not consider that Halifax is obliged to re-run the comparison using the Balanced Index 
as opposed to the Income Index. Though both are multi-asset benchmarks, the latter has 
lower than average levels of historical volatility than the former. Nor do I think that the 
comparison using 50% of the average rate from fixed-term bonds is unreasonable. 
Mrs W's risk profile was in between wishing to take some risk and not wishing to take any 
risk at all; she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. 
The 50/50 combination using the Income Index would reasonably put Mrs W into that 
position. It does not mean that Mrs W would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, that this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs W could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objectives and limited risk attitude.I therefore conclude that Halifax has undertaken a fair and reasonable redress calculation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman