DRN-3668816
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the withdrawals they 
dispute from their joint account.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G dispute six cash withdrawals made between 17 March 2021 and 12 April 
2021 said by Barclays to have been made by Mrs G. These took place in branches over the 
counter and total £4,500. Barclays has only refunded the last one of £800. And Mr G and 
Mrs G state that it didnt do enough to protect their account as the first disputed withdrawal 
was reported on 22 March 2021.
Barclays said it wouldnt be doing anything further. It said that one of the withdrawals was 
verified with Mrs Gs card and PIN. And the signature provided with the others matched that 
of Mrs G. If said that it had written off the claim for £800 that had been refunded. It explained 
to this service that it now believed that this withdrawal was genuine too and that the 
signature matched. It provided evidence that four security questions had also been 
answered correctly on that occasion.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The withdrawals by date in 
2021 were 17 March £1,000; 25 March £300; 26 March £800; 29 March £800; 8 April £800; 
12 April £800. He said he had seen the branch receipts for all but the withdrawal on 25 
March 2021. He agreed with Barclays that the signatures werent an exact copy of the one 
for Mrs G on record. But there were similarities and he didnt think it unreasonable that 
Barclays had accepted the signatures as genuine. 
In addition, Barclays said that the person withdrawing the money needed to answer security 
questions. This was shown by the printed wording on the receipts  Customer gateway  
questions. And in addition, the receipt for 29 March 2021 stated Customer gateway- 
PINSentry. This meant that Mrs Gs card was then present, and the correct PIN entered. 
Hed also seen an audit showing the specific security questions the person withdrawing the 
money had been asked on 29 March 2021 and 12 April 2021. He didnt consider these to be 
general and guessable answers.
Mrs G only had a card on her sole account and not on the joint account. This must have 
been the one used to verify the withdrawal on 29 March 2021. Her earlier cards had been 
cancelled on 22 and 25 March 2022 and so the only live card at that time was the one 
ending in numbers 2011. That card had been used for a genuine withdrawal at a cash 
machine on 30 March 2021. So, if a fraudster had somehow obtained this and the PIN it 
would have had to be replaced back with Mrs G without her knowing. Mr G and Mrs G said 
that they kept their cards and PINs safe. In addition, there was no attempted use of the card 
to withdraw money from Mrs Gs sole account.
He noted the points Mr G had made about the withdrawals being out of character and at 
branches some distance from their home address. And that Mr G believed a card had been 
cloned. But our investigator said that this service hadnt seen evidence of the chip on a card 
been cloned for everyday use. So, he concluded that the withdrawals had been made either 
by Mrs G or someone acting with her authority as there was no other plausible explanation. 
Having made that finding it didnt make a difference if Barclays hadnt prevented further 
withdrawals after Mr G had been reporting what happened.
Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. Mr G said that he 
didnt think Barclays had done enough to protect the account when hed raised the alarm 
about unauthorised withdrawals. It didnt add heightened security and so it had failed in its 
duty of care.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr G and Mrs G wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr G or Mrs G either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else 
to?
- Did Barclays act reasonably?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. So, 
while I know that Mr G wants every detail of what happened provided and explained thats 
just not going to be possible.
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated using Mrs Gs information from her 
account profile at Barclays. The person withdrawing the money was identified by staff in 
different branches as Mrs G. As our investigator says we have copies now of five of the six 
signed receipts. I dont have any expert signature analysis from either party, but I can 
understand why staff didnt have reason to question the signatures. The evidence is that 
security questions were asked and that in one case Mrs Gs card and PIN were used. We 
dont have a receipt for the withdrawal of £300 on 25 March 2021 but I see no reason to find 
that this wasnt for some reason authenticated too.
The issue is whether the payments were consented to and so authorised or if as Mr G says 
a fraudster made them. I have to say that going to multiple branches over an extended 
period of time would be a very bold move for a fraudster. It seemed likely, as here, that 
reports of the payments would be made and there was an increased risk of detection. 
The withdrawal of 29 March 2021 is important. And thats because the person making it had      
Mrs Gs card. I agree with what our investigators said about cloned cards and weve not 
seen evidence of the chip on a card being cloned for everyday use. And frankly Id be 
struggling to see why a fraudster whod been able to withdraw money three times before 
without it seems card verification would go to the lengths of obtaining a card to use that day. 
There was no attempt to use the card to withdraw money from Mrs Gs sole account which is 
unusual if the card and PIN had been compromised. 
I know Mr G also highlights that Barclays cant show the card actually used as verification on 
a report. But Im satisfied that as it says this was card ending 2011. The other cards had 
been cancelled and wouldnt work in a PIN sentry machine. In any event no other card had 
been lost. I further cant see why a fraudster would further go to the trouble of replacing card ending 2011 with Mrs G and which would have to be without her noticing. That would have 
been required here as she used the card to make a genuine withdrawal on 30 March 2021 
and then continued to use it normally.
Ive seen evidence of the specific questions asked on both 29 March 2021 and 12 April 
2021. I agree that these by nature are ones that were personal to Mrs G and that it was 
unlikely someone unknown to her would be able to answer all of those. Ive no reason to 
think that similar questions were not asked on other occasions. 
I take into account that these withdrawals were out of character and not at local branches. 
But against that I dont have a plausible explanation for how these were possible without  
Mrs Gs involvement in some way. I know Mr G wanted to see CCTV. Thats not been 
available and even if it was, it wouldnt rule out a third-party making withdrawals with her 
authority. Im afraid having balanced all the factors here I conclude its most likely these 
payments were authorised.
I note that Mr G had been monitoring the account during the period and had reported what 
happened. Barclays position is that it if can identify an account holder in person as genuine 
then it would tend to allow access to the account. While I can see Mr Gs frustration as Ive 
found the payments to be authorised I cant say Barclays was wrong to pay them. I do 
though consider that after 8 April 2021 the concerns had been raised to such a point that I 
might have expected a subsequent similar withdrawal not to be allowed. But in any event the 
further withdrawal has been permanently refunded even though Barclays believe it to be 
genuine. Notably there were no further attempts made at withdrawals after that.
So, I dont have a basis to find Barclays acted unreasonably and to require it to do anything 
further. I can appreciate given what is at stake how disappointing this will be. If Mr G and 
Mrs G dont accept my decision they remain free to pursue this matter in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman