DRN-2956213
The complaint
Mr T1 complains on behalf of his father Mr T that Mr T and his late wife were mis-sold a 
lifetime mortgage by Lyndhurst Financial Management Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a lifetime mortgage, borrowing around £26,000 plus fees in 2007. At 
the time Mrs T had dementia and Mr T1 had power of attorney over her affairs, so he signed 
the mortgage application on her behalf, but says he did so at the request of his father who 
made the decisions about Mr and Mrs Ts finances.
Sadly Mrs T passed away in 2007 and Mr T has himself since been diagnosed with 
dementia. Mr T1 now manages his affairs via a power of attorney. Mr T1 has come to realise 
that his father had substantial assets in investment products at the time. He says the lifetime 
mortgage was therefore not suitable for his parents, because it would have been cheaper to 
raise the funds needed from their investments. And so the mortgage was mis-sold by 
Lyndhurst.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. As Lyndhurst didnt agree that the 
mortgage was mis-sold, the complaint came to me for a decision to be made. I took a 
different view, so I issued a provisional decision to set out my thinking. 
I said: 
Mr and Mrs T borrowed around £26,600 in 2007, acting on Lyndhursts 
advice. They took further borrowing in the years since, but Lyndhurst was not 
involved in those transactions and in this complaint Im only looking at the 
initial borrowing in 2007. Although it was more than six years ago, Lyndhurst 
has consented to us considering the merits of the complaint.
The difficulty in this case is that sadly neither Mr T nor Mrs T is able to give us 
their recollections of the borrowing or what they intended at the time. And 
while Mr T1 signed the mortgage application as his mothers attorney, he 
wasnt involved in the decision to take it out either.
In the absence of testimony from Mr and Mrs T, therefore, Ive had to do the 
best I can based on the documents from the time and what they record of Mr 
and Mrs Ts circumstances.
The fact find and related documents show that Mr and Mrs T had substantial 
investments. They had around £260,000 in various bonds, and a further 
£8,000 in ISAs. However, they had limited cash savings and their income was 
relatively low. The fact find records that the purpose of the borrowing was to 
replenish their savings, improve their lifestyle and buy a car. The fact find and 
suitability report record that Mr and Mrs T had considered withdrawing funds 
from their investments, but had decided not to.
To my mind this is the crucial issue in this case. Should Lyndhurst have 
advised Mr and Mrs T to take a lifetime mortgage? Or advised them to 
withdraw funds from their investments?
Mr T1 says  and our investigator agreed  that Mr and Mrs T should have 
been advised not to proceed with the mortgage and instead to use their 
investments.
But Im not persuaded that the mortgage advice was unsuitable. In the first 
place, part of suitability is making a recommendation that meets a customers 
needs and circumstances.
As I say, we cant now ask Mr and Mrs T what their needs were at the time. 
But the evidence from the time suggests that they didnt want to reduce their 
investment holdings.
I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of what was recorded at the time  so 
I accept that was their preference. And I dont think it was so unreasonable 
that Lyndhurst should have refused to proceed on that basis.
Mr and Mrs T had taken out their investments relatively recently. Since being 
taken out, they had performed well and had in fact grown by significantly 
more than the mortgage interest rate. While there was no guarantee that that 
performance would be maintained over the long term, it wasnt unreasonable 
 based on what was known and knowable in 2007  to expect continued 
good performance of the investments.
So reducing the investments would reduce the returns on them  and while 
the mortgage interest would be compounded over the years, so would the 
investment gain. Another factor is that there were withdrawal penalties in the 
early years of holding the investments, so there would be an extra cost to 
reducing the investments. And finally Mr and Mrs T were drawing a regular 
income from the investments as well as benefitting from capital growth. 
Reducing the investments would reduce their income  which was already not 
large.
So while there were downsides to the mortgage  not least the compounding 
effect of the rolled up interest  there were downsides to the alternative too. 
The mortgage interest rate was fixed for the life of the mortgage. But the rate 
wasnt unreasonable in the context of rates which were available in the 
market in 2007, before the financial crash and the fall in Bank of England 
base rate.
I think Mr and Mrs T had decided that they would prefer to take a lifetime 
mortgage rather than reduce their investments. There were arguments for 
and against both courses of action. But taking a lifetime mortgage was not, in 
their circumstances, inappropriate. It matched their needs and circumstances 
at the time. Im satisfied that the advice Lyndhurst gave was suitable at the 
time it was given.
Lyndhurst accepted my provisional decision. Mr T1 didnt. He said Mr T wasnt financially 
sophisticated and Mrs T was suffering from Alzheimers at the time. Mr T was advised to take out equity release when doing so wasnt necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what I said in my provisional decision and Ive noted what Mr T1 said 
in response to it. But I havent changed my mind. I think the evidence from the time is clear 
that Mr T wanted to raise additional funds without compromising his investments. This 
mortgage allowed him to do that, and Lyndhursts advice was suitable at the time it was 
given, based on Mr and Mrs Ts needs and circumstances as they were at the time. I dont 
think the mortgage was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T1 on behalf of 
Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman