DRN-3690959
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Q, complains that TSB Bank Plc acted unfairly when 
closing its bank accounts and recalling its Bounce Back Loan.
One of Qs directors, Mr G, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
Q banked with TSB, holding a business bank account and three instant access savings 
accounts. It obtained a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 from the bank in May 2020.
In September 2020, TSB initiated a review of Qs accounts. The bank identified that the 
nature of Qs business had changed since the company opened its accounts with the bank 
back in 2011. So it wrote to Q on 22 October 2020, requesting that the company complete 
some paperwork including a new mandate and change of address form as well as some 
evidence of its trading and the requisite membership licence given its line of business. It 
asked that Q provide this by 28 October.
TSB applied a restriction to the accounts while the review was ongoing and pending the 
information requested from Q, limiting the companys access to the funds held within them. 
TSB didnt receive the information it requested from Q, despite its subsequent attempts to 
follow up with Mr G over the phone. This led it to decide to withdraw its services from Q.
TSB wrote to Q on 22 December 2020 to advise that it would be closing the companys bank 
accounts immediately. It also terminated the Bounce Back Loan facility, and applied the 
funds held within Qs bank accounts to reduce the amount it owed on the loan. It wrote to Q 
on the same day with a formal demand for repayment of the remaining balance, of around 
£17,000, within 14 days.
Mr G complained to TSB about the withdrawal of Qs facilities, but the bank maintained its 
decision. It said it had closed Qs accounts in line with their terms and conditions and wasnt 
required to disclose its reasons. But it did say Qs bank account hadnt yet been closed and 
agreed to Mr Gs request to keep it open for a further fortnight, until 25 January 2021.
TSB then proceeded to close Qs account on 11 January 2021, ahead of the revised date it 
had given to Mr G.
Mr G asked us to look into things. He was unhappy about the restriction and closure of Qs 
accounts and that TSB had applied the companys funds to pay down the Bounce Back Loan 
debt. He said that Q been left without a bank account and without funds to pay its staff over 
the Christmas period. This had impacted Qs operations and revenue, with an estimated 
50% drop in sales over the subsequent six-month period. And he said it had left him feeling 
suicidal, such was the level of stress he was under.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He said, in summary, that:
TSB hadnt done anything wrong in reviewing Qs accounts and restricting the 
companys access to them while it did so. He explained that banks have a number of 
legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to, and that he was satisfied TSB had 
acted in accordance with these and the terms and conditions of Qs accounts.
TSB had requested information from Q that was then not provided, despite a number 
of attempts from the bank to follow up with Mr G. It had then decided to end its 
relationship with Q, which it was entitled to do and for which it wasnt obliged to 
explain its reasons.
While he thought TSB had been entitled to close Qs accounts immediately, he didnt 
think it had been fair for the bank to close the account on 11 January after advising 
Mr G that it would remain open until the 25th. So he recommended that TSB pay Q 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused in its attempts to switch 
accounts.
The terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan allowed TSB to cancel the facility 
and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances, which he thought 
was justified in the circumstances here. The bank was also allowed to apply the 
money held in Qs accounts to the loan in the manner it had.
Neither party accepted our investigators view. Mr G still didnt think Q had been treated 
fairly, having had to effectively cease trading while without access to a bank account  which 
he estimated had caused a £100,000 loss of income. And while TSB accepted it had closed 
the account earlier than it said it would, it thought Q had already had ample time to switch to 
a new account  noting that Mr G had told the bank hed started the process in early 
November 2020. So it didnt agree to pay the proposed award of £100 compensation. And 
so with no resolution to the complaint, it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
My initial conclusions differed slightly from those of our investigator so I wrote to both parties 
with a provisional decision earlier this month. I said:
TSB has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under 
review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Qs accounts allowed TSB to suspend its services. TSB 
has explained that it did so in order to comply with its legal obligations. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. So I dont think TSB did 
anything wrong in restricting Qs accounts while it conducted its review. It wasnt 
required to notify the company before doing so.
TSB was also clear on the information it needed from Q in order to complete its 
review (and thus release the restriction). I think its request was reasonable  it had 
become aware of a change in Qs nature of business, and asked for information in 
keeping with its Know Your Customer obligations and other legal and regulatory 
requirements. It was then up to Q to provide this, with the restriction remaining in 
place until such time as it did. Q did not do so, despite reminders from TSB.
Following the review, TSB decided to withdraw its services from Q. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close 
Qs accounts immediately and without giving notice in certain circumstances. In light of the findings of the banks review  evidently driven primarily by Qs failure to 
provide the information that had been reasonably requested  I think it was 
reasonable for TSB to do so here.
In the event, Qs bank account remained open for a little while longer. It said it would 
be closing the account imminently when notifying the company of its decision on 22 
December, but it remained open while Mr G challenged the banks decision. And in 
its response to his complaint, TSB advised that it would keep the account open until 
25 January  only to then close it on the 11th. That was clearly a mistake, but I dont 
think it really impacted Qs position. The company was already on notice that it 
needed to find a new account as soon as possible and so it is reasonable to assume 
that it was using its best endeavours to do so, not least as it seems Mr G had 
indicated that this was already underway on or around 4 November. And there was 
no money held in the account for Q to access  as its funds had been applied to the 
Bounce Back Loan. 
TSBs review also led it to terminate Qs Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. And I think it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so here, given all Ive said above about the banks review. The terms and 
conditions of the loan also gave TSB the right of set-off  that is, it could use money 
held in any credit balance held in any of Qs accounts to repay any amounts that the 
company owed the bank. So I dont think TSB did anything wrong in taking this action 
either.
In summary, and from what Ive seen so far, I dont think TSB did anything wrong in 
how it handled the review, restriction or closure of Qs accounts or in how it 
terminated and recalled the Bounce Back Loan. So while I dont doubt that these 
actions will inevitably have impacted Qs operations and caused Mr G some 
understandable concern  the extent of which I am sorry to see  it follows that there 
is no basis on which I could fairly require TSB to pay compensation for this.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to take 
into consideration before I made a final decision. TSB said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr G didnt accept my provisional decision, as he still didnt think it was fair for TSB to have 
closed Qs account after assuring him that it wouldnt do so. He also said he hadnt been 
given sufficient opportunity to satisfy the banks requirements. And he highlighted the impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic on the companys ability to obtain an alternative account 
elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after giving particular consideration to the points Mr G raised in his 
response to my provisional findings, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my 
provisional decision.
I think TSB gave Q sufficient opportunity to satisfy its requirements, with the company having 
had two months to provide the information requested by the bank in October before TSB 
decided to close the account in December  and then a further couple of weeks until the 
account was actually closed. As Ive acknowledged, TSB closed the account a little sooner 
than it had said it would  but I still dont think this really prejudiced Qs position for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.As set out in my provisional findings, I think TSB was entitled to close Qs account 
immediately. I dont doubt that the coronavirus pandemic wouldve made it harder for Q to 
then obtain a new account than might otherwise have been the case (although I dont agree 
that it wasnt possible  and would highlight again that Mr G seems to have told the bank in 
early November that he was arranging an account elsewhere). In any event, as I dont think 
TSB did anything wrong in closing the account, it follows that I dont think the bank is 
responsible for any difficulties Q then experienced as a result of this.
My final decision
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman