DRN-1823686
The complaint
Mr F complains that Equifax Limited failed to cancel his membership in January 2019 which 
led to him being charged a monthly fee. 
Mr F also complains that access to Equifaxs online services has been withdrawn after he 
raised a chargeback claim with his bank.
 
What happened
At the beginning of January 2019 Mr F signed up with Equifax. The first month was not 
charged but, if the membership remained open, the following months would cost £7.95. 
Mr F has told us he cancelled his membership online and called Equifax to verify this had 
gone through. Mr F says the a call handler confirmed his membership had been cancelled at 
some point during January 2019 and that he would not be charged. 
Mr F was abroad over the following months as he was receiving treatment for a serious 
health condition. On Mr Fs return, hes told us he checked his bank statements and found 
he had been charged Equifaxs monthly membership fee. On 3 May 2019 Mr F contacted 
Equifax and cancelled the membership. Mr F complained and asked for the charges he had 
incurred to be refunded. Mr F went on to raise a chargeback claim via his bank who 
refunded a single months membership fee of £7.95. Equifax took the step of removing 
access to Mr Fs online account.
Equifax responded to Mr Fs complaint on 30 May 2019 but said there was no evidence he 
had cancelled his membership until he called on 3 May 2019. Mr F contacted Equifax again 
in July 2019 as he hadnt received its final response. Mr F also wanted to know why his 
online account access had been removed. Equifax went on to explain that due to Mr Fs 
chargeback claim access to his online account had been withdrawn. Equifax said it could 
send Mr F a copy of his credit report in the post.  
Mr F went on to refer his complaint to our service. He has explained that due to the health 
problems he experienced and fact he was abroad for an extended period he wasnt aware 
Equifax had continued to take the monthly membership fee from his bank account. Our 
investigator looked at the case but didnt find anything to show Mr F had cancelled his 
membership during the free trial period. The investigator noted that during the period Mr F 
was abroad he had continued to access his online Equifax account, despite saying his 
membership had been cancelled. Overall, the investigator thought Equifax had dealt with Mr 
Fs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr F asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how strongly Mr F feels about this matter and that the events occurred at a 
particularly difficult time. Mr F has explained that he had to spend an extended period 
receiving medical treatment abroad which is why it took several months for him to notice the 
unexpected charges. I note everything Mr F has told us about his situation at the time and 
why he wanted to cancel the membership. But I have to be fair to both parties and Equifax 
has explained that it maintains a record of all contact with customers and, despite several 
calls in January 2019 about other matters, there is nothing to show the membership was 
cancelled. In addition, whilst Mr F says he first cancelled the membership online, Equifax 
hasnt found any record of that on its systems. 
Where information is disputed or incomplete, Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred based on the available 
evidence and information. 
In this case, Mr F has told us he cancelled his subscription online and called to confirm that 
had gone through. Equifax, in turn, has no record of either event. Ive also thought about the 
months that followed and have reviewed Equifaxs online account access log. The log shows 
that Mr F successfully logged into his Equifax online account in February, March and 
April 2019. 
Considering all the available information, Im not persuaded that the membership was 
cancelled in January 2019. I think its more likely than not that Equifaxs systems would have 
picked up a request from Mr F to cancel his membership online. Id have also expected there 
to be a record in the telephone call log reflecting Mr Fs instruction, but there is none. Finally, 
Mr F continued to access his online Equifax account in February, March and April 2019. I 
think it would have been reasonably clear to Mr F that his membership was active when he 
logged in. 
Taking everything Ive seen together, on balance, Im not persuaded that Equifax made an 
error when it charged Mr F membership fees. 
Equifax says that it removed Mr Fs online account access after he raised a chargeback 
claim. Equifaxs terms say that the customer agrees for it to take regular payments on a 
subscription basis. But by raising a chargeback claim, Equifax says Mr F withdrew his 
continuing authority for it to collect payments. Equifax claims that withdrawing authority to 
take payments for its services breaches its terms and conditions which means it can cancel 
of suspend the membership. 
I understand Equifaxs decision may feel harsh to Mr F, but Im satisfied it can decide to 
cancel a membership and access to its online facility in the circumstances of Mr Fs 
complaint. I agree that following the chargeback claim, there was no longer a way for 
Equifax to take a regular monthly membership fee. 
Equifax has also pointed out that access to its online facility is not a statutory right and is 
something it charges for. Equifax says Mr F can still get a copy of his credit report by post for 
free. I think thats a reasonable point. Ultimately, Mr F has told us he wished to cancel his 
membership which meant he would lose access to his credit file online with Equifax. Im 
satisfied Equifaxs decision to remove Mr Fs online account access was fair and in line with 
the terms.   
I am very sorry to disappoint Mr F and I can see hes been through an extremely difficult 
period. But the information Ive seen doesnt indicate that the membership was cancelled in 
January 2019 or that Equifax made an error by charging him in the months that followed. 
Equifax has confirmed Mr F can still obtain a credit report in the post but that online access isnt available. Im satisfied Equifax has acted in line with the terms and has dealt with Mr Fs 
complaints fairly. As a result, Im not telling Equifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman