DRN-2718210
The complaint
Mr P and Miss W complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC declined a claim on 
their home insurance policy after a storm caused damage to a wall.
What happened
Mr P and Miss W said a retaining wall in their garden collapsed after a storm. But the loss 
adjuster from RSA declined the claim, blaming a gradual operating cause. Mr P and Miss W 
got their own report from a structural engineer. Their engineer said the wall hadnt collapsed 
because of a progressive failure. It was caused by the storm. When the report was given to 
RSA it changed its reasons for declining the claim to defective construction or design.
Mr P and Miss W felt that RSA didnt consider their appeal properly. They said they received 
a poor service and they felt the surveyor decided too quickly without looking properly. So 
theyd like RSA to settle the claim in full, including the additional professional fees theyve 
had to spend. And they want compensation for the stress theyve suffered.
RSA said Mr P and Miss W had called to report possible storm damage to a retaining wall. 
Itd arranged for a building inspector to look at the damage and itd declined the claim 
following their inspection. RSA accepted thered been storm conditions at the time of the 
damage. But after reviewing the evidence its engineer felt the fence on top of the wall had 
acted like a sail and caused the damage  not the storm.
RSA didnt think the wall wouldve failed otherwise. Any fence secured to a wall should allow 
wind to pass through with minimal resistance. And in this case the wall had probably moved 
gradually over successive storm events. RSA felt the wall had been poorly constructed. And 
the damage hadnt been caused by an insurable event.
Mr P and Miss W werent satisfied with RSAs response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr P and Mrs W had commissioned 
their own report. And they didnt feel RSA had considered their appeal fairly. 
Our investigator explained she would consider if the insurer had considered the claim fairly 
using the information it had available. Having looked at everything she was persuaded by 
the comments of RSAs contractor and adviser that storm damage wasnt the main cause of 
the damage. And she felt the claim had been declined fairly. Our investigator did think RSA 
couldve explained things and managed Mr P and Miss Ws expectations a little better. But 
overall she didnt think the service was unreasonable. 
Mr P and Miss W didnt agree. They felt they didnt have a very good service from their 
insurer and its representatives. And theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Miss W have provided a lot of helpful information in relation to their complaint. And 
I can see how upsetting this has been for them. Ive looked carefully at everything they, and 
RSA, have said. But Ill concentrate on whats most relevant to the decision. 
Mr P and Miss W bought the house a number of years ago. They said itd been built by a 
reputable builder and they had no reason to believe the wall design posed a risk. Theyd not 
had any issues while they lived there. And their neighbours hadnt raised any concerns 
about the state of the adjoining wall. So they feel RSA should reconsider their claim.
When considering a claim for damage from a storm I need to consider three main questions:
1. Is there evidence there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Im only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Mr P and Miss Ws insurance policy provides cover for storm damage. And RSA has 
accepted there was a storm in their area at the time the damage occurred. And the 
photographs and reports show damage thats consistent with the sort of damage that might 
occur during a storm.
So I now need to consider the third question of whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. The initial report by RSAs surveyor said the wall had been poorly constructed. It 
hadnt been tied into other sections. After considering Mr P and Miss Ws own report, the 
surveyor still felt the walls design was defective. The additional fence would increase the 
wind load on the wall. And the defective design was the key reason for the failure of the wall. 
I realise Mr P and Miss W went to additional effort and expense to arrange their own report. 
And Im aware theyve questioned the surveyors findings and felt he didnt spend enough 
time looking at the damage. But Id expect the person instructed by the insurer to have the 
correct level of experience and knowledge to properly assess the claim. 
As Ive explained above, the third question  and often the most contentious  is whether the 
damage was caused by this particular storm. Insurers often appoint surveyors experienced 
in this sort of work to look at the damage. And thats what RSA did here. I think thats a fair 
thing to do. I can see RSA has considered the additional information Mr P and Miss W 
provided.  And I also think its reasonable for RSA to rely on its experts assessment when 
deciding whether to meet the claim. 
Having considered the reports RSA felt there was no evidence of storm damage. Ive looked 
at all of the information. And I cant say it was unreasonable for RSA to decide there were 
existing issues with the wall and decline the claim due to the policys exclusion for defective 
construction or design.
I can see how stressful this has been for Mr P and Miss W. Theyre clearly unhappy with the 
way their claim was handled and RSAs decision to decline the claim. They didnt feel the 
surveyor spent enough time making his decision. And they didnt want him to consider their 
appeal. But the surveyor had visited Mr P and Miss Ws property. And he was probably the 
best-placed person to reconsider both the original report and the additional information 
provided by them.
Based on what Ive seen I think Mr P and Miss Ws information was carefully considered by 
RSA. And although I can understand their frustration I cant really say the overall service 
provided by RSA was poor enough to warrant compensation. I dont underestimate the upset Mr P and Miss W have been through while dealing with this 
matter. But unfortunately insurance claims do involve a degree of stress and inconvenience. 
RSA told Mr P and Miss W the claim would be declined once the first inspection had taken 
place. And it considered their appeal and its own report before confirming its decision. I 
know Mr P and Miss W feel that RSA changed its reason for declining their claim. But it did 
so after considering further information. And Ive not seen anything to suggest it didnt act in 
line with the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy when making its decision.
I know Mr P and Miss W feel let down by RSA. But Ive looked at all of the information 
provided by both parties. And based on what Ive seen I think RSA has dealt with the 
complaint fairly  so Im not asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman