DRN-2568502
The complaint
Miss F says Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She says she was struggling to pay her bills 
when Oakam lent to her. And she was falling behind on her other lending commitments 
which included other short-term loans. She thinks that Oakam should have seen this and not 
lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan Oakam provided to Miss F on 6 May 2013. 
Miss F borrowed £450. And from what I can see she was due to make 52 weekly 
repayments of around £19. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said that Oakam had information that showed it 
that Miss F was unlikely to be able to repay the loans sustainably. He recommended that it 
pay compensation. 
Oakam hasnt responded to the adjudicators opinion. So as no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint and have explained why below.
Oakam made some checks before it approved the loan. And Ive looked at these checks in 
their entirety. These included asking Miss F about her income and expenditure and looking 
at some information from her credit file. These checks show that Miss F was already having 
problems repaying some of the credit she already had, and she had used other borrowing to 
make these repayments. And, perhaps more importantly, it showed that she was taking the 
Oakam loan to pay her rent arrears. 
So, Miss F was borrowing to repay her priority bills and she was borrowing to repay other 
lending. Both of these are strong indicators that Mrs F wouldnt be able to repay any new 
lending sustainably. She was already unable to pay her existing commitments on a regular 
basis without borrowing and its reasonable to say she would be unlikely to be able to meet 
any further commitments without incurring any problems.  
So I think Oakam should have looked a bit further into Miss Fs circumstances , given the 
information it had. if Oakam had done this, it would have seen that she was borrowing and 
repaying significant amounts to another short term lender. And she had been doing this for 
some time. All of the above shows, in my view, that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that Oakam wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
And I think this would have added to what Oakam already knew about Miss F. From all of 
this Oakam shouldve concluded that Miss F wouldnt have been able repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
Overall, I think that Oakam shouldnt have given this loan to Miss F and I think shes lost out 
as a result of this. So, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint about this loan.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Oakam should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had Oakam not lent to Miss F.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss F may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss F would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakams liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Oakam shouldnt have given Miss F this loan.A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss F towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam should pay Miss F the total of A plus B.
D) Oakam should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Fs credit file in 
relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest. Oakam should 
give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax Oakam has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Oakham Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman