DRN-4005554
The complaint
Mr M says TSB Bank plc must make good the impact of the errors made when setting up a 
new direct debit for him.
What happened
Mr M has, amongst others, two current accounts and a credit card account with TSB. In May 
2022 Mr M wanted to amend a direct debit (altering the debiting account, the date it was 
claimed, and the amount) but this was not possible online so he cancelled it, and set up a 
new instruction. On 16 June 2022 the new direct debit was taken but, Mr M says, only partly 
in line with his instructions. It left the correct account but was for the wrong amount. TSB 
recalled this. It paid Mr M £50 to recognise its error. However, Mr M is unhappy that the bank 
recorded the refunded direct debit as an unpaid direct debit. 
He says, as a result, on 12 July 2022 TSB reduced his credit limit by £250  this was later 
reversed and TSB said it could add a note explaining the unpaid direct debit to his account. 
It confirmed to Mr M on 25 August 2022 that his limit has been re-instated and that no 
adverse information had been reported to the credit reference agencies. It paid Mr M a 
further £50 to recognise the trouble this error had caused. But Mr M says he suffered further 
detriment as he should have been eligible for a limit increase, and all this meant when he 
later applied for one he was declined.
Mr M says this has caused significant stress and worry; there is false information on his bank 
record; he was unable to action a balance transfer as planned; he had to readjust his 
finances when his limit was temporarily reduced; and as he is disabled the stress this has 
caused has exacerbated his pain. 
Mr M wants the unpaid direct debit narrative removing from his record and his credit limit 
increasing as hes been told the limit correction and unpaid direct debit narrative are the 
reason his application declined. 
TSB says the direct debit was in fact set up as Mr M requested, but the mistake was that he 
wasnt advised that it wouldnt take effect until June as the May statement had already been 
produced. As this was its error it recalled the direct debit and the minimum payment was 
instead made, as Mr M had intended. When it then came to light his credit limit had been 
decreased it fixed this. It feels it has fairly compensated Mr M for its errors. It also explained 
it cannot give a specific reason as to why his subsequent application for a limit increase 
failed.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He found the £100 compensation paid to 
be a fair settlement for the banks failure to tell Mr M that the new direct debit would not take 
effect till June, and for reducing his credit limit in error. With regards the September decline 
for a limit increase, he explained that TSB is entitled to reject requests for credit based on its 
scoring criteria. 
Mr M raised a number of issues in response to this assessment. The investigator looked into 
them and responded to Mr M. He said it was not possible to change the narrative from 
unpaid direct debit - it is what the TSB systems uses for unpaid or reversed direct debits. 
He also confirmed we had copies of the relevant webchats, and calls, which I can see he 
has shared with Mr M. Finally he explained that as the more recent limit reduction from 
November 2022 happened after he had brought his complaint to this service, and was 
something he had not raised with TSB, we could not consider it here.
Unhappy with this position Mr M asked that his complaint be revied by an ombudsman.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about all of Mr Ms comments but in keeping with our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service  and as our rules allow  I will focus here on the issues I 
find to be material to the outcome of his complaint.  
The direct debit
It is not in dispute that TSB made a mistake when it failed to tell Mr M that the lower direct 
debit payment would not come into effect until June, or that it subsequently reduced his 
credit limit in error. The bank has acknowledged these mistakes, corrected them, apologised 
and paid £100 compensation. I find this to be fair and reasonable. To reach this conclusion I 
have considered the duration of the issue, what Mr M has told us about his personal 
circumstances and what he had to do as a result of the banks actions. 
Mr M remains unhappy that the narrative of unpaid direct debit cannot be changed to say 
reversed or recalled. TSB has explained its system does not allow this. But it has 
confirmed that this has not resulted in any adverse data being passed to the credit reference 
agencies. Despite this  which is important and I hope of some reassurance to Mr M  I 
understand that Mr M is dissatisfied that this narrative appears on his statement history. 
However, I do not have the power to tell the bank to change its systems, that would be the 
role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And I cannot conclude it shows TSB 
has treated Mr M unfairly as this would be the narrative used for all other account holders in 
the same position.   
Application to increase the credit limit
Mr M has concluded that his request for a limit increase was declined as a result of this 
narrative  so due to false information, and also because of the subsequent correction to 
his limit. I can see one of the advisers he spoke to suggested that maybe one part of the 
business wasnt speaking to another. But I havent found that it was confirmed to Mr M that 
these factors were the reason for the decision to decline his request. None of the written 
communication to Mr M from TSB, nor its submission to this service, support that conclusion.
And after he appealed the decision TSB reviewed it, considering the additional information 
Mr M had provided, but its decision remained the same. It wrote to Mr M and explained that 
due to commercial sensitivities it does not give specific reasons, and whilst frustrating for   
Mr M, this is not something we would order it to do. Similarly, the actual lending decision is a 
commercial matter and not something we can become involved in. I understand Mr M feels 
strongly it is a direct result of the banks previous errors, but I think he can take some 
comfort from that fact the lending team reviewed his application - aware of the wider 
circumstances - and reached the same decision. Mr M said he lost out financially as he 
wanted to use the increased limit for a balance transfer, saving on interest charges 
elsewhere. But the limit increase was never guaranteed so I cannot hold TSB liable for this financial loss.
Finally, as the investigator set out, Mr M would need to first complain to TSB about the 
changes to his credit limit that were made in November 2022 to give it the chance to first 
investigate. I appreciate he feels it is linked to the substance of this complaint, but there is 
currently no evidence to support this and the bank needs to have the chance to respond 
before we can consider the matter. If Mr M is unhappy with TSBs response he can of course 
bring a new complaint to this service. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman