DRN-4386386
The complaint
Ms F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to prevent her losing money to a
scam.
Ms F has used a representative to bring her complaint, but for ease of reading Ill mostly just
refer to Ms F herself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In January 2022 Ms F says she was the
victim of a scam.
Shed met an individual online and had formed a friendship. He introduced her to trading in
cryptocurrency. She was persuaded to make an investment and says that this ultimately
turned out to be a scam. She made the following payments from her Monzo account which
all went to the same beneficiary L. L appear to deal with the purchase of cryptocurrency.
Time and Date Amount
6.57pm 25 January 2022 £700
7.41pm 26 January 2022 £6,000
7.52pm 27 January 2022 £2,000
8.06pm 27 January 2022 £5,000
9.43pm 27 January 2022 £3,000
8.11pm 28 January 2022 £3,500
Ms F says several of the payments she made were to pay a tax to allow the release of her
profits. When she was asked to make yet a further payment before funds could be released,
she realised this was a scam.
Ms Fs representative raised this on her behalf with Monzo. Monzo investigated and checked
with the recipient bank who said no funds remained. Monzo didnt offer any redress and part
of their reasoning for this was they didnt consider the payments to be particularly unusual
compared to Ms Fs regular account activity.
The matter was considered by one of our Investigators. He recommended that the complaint
should be upheld. In summary he thought Monzo ought to have intervened in the £5,000
payment on 27 January 2022. And he thought if they had, the scam would have been
discovered and further losses prevented. But he also thought Ms F had been negligent and
so compensation should be reduced by 50%. He recommended that Monzo pay Ms F
£5,750 plus 8% simple interest.
Monzo didnt accept this, they dont agree they should pay at all. Ms F didnt accept the
outcome either. She believes Monzo should have intervened sooner, when the £6,000
payment was made. As agreement couldnt be found, the complaint was passed to me
to decide.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a different outcome compared to that of our Investigator. So,
Im issuing this provisional decision to give both sides an opportunity to comment before
finalising my decision.
Im sorry to hear Ms F has been the victim of a scam and of the impact this has all had on
her. But despite my natural sympathy, it would only be fair for me to require Monzo to do
more if I think they are responsible for failures which caused the loss (or a part of it) or
hindered its recovery. I dont think they are, and Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Ms F herself authorised the payments relevant to this complaint. The
starting point is that consumers are generally liable for payments that theyve authorised. But
Monzo (along with all banks) have obligations to be alert to the potential of fraud, scams and
the misappropriation of funds. And they are required to monitor their accounts as well as to
act in their customers best interests.
So, my next consideration must be whether the payments Ms F instructed (either individually
or collectively) were so unusual, that Monzo ought to have done more before processing
them. There is evidence that Monzo took some steps prior to processing Ms Fs payments.
Theyve evidenced that they showed warnings within their app. These include a generic
warning when setting up the new payee and when sending payments.
Ive taken into account Ms Fs previous account history. Each account is individual and what
may be commonplace in one, could be exceptional in another. There must also be a level of
proportionality involved. Its not reasonable to expect banks to intervene in every outgoing
payment and its generally accepted that taking a risk-based approach is appropriate.
In February 2021 Ms F paid out over £23,500 from her account and over £20,000 of this was
within 72 hours. The timing and value of these payments arent dissimilar to the £20,200
sent over four days towards the scam. And whilst most months didnt have payments like
this, there was another larger payment of over £3,300 in April 2021. The impact of this is that
the account history supports that, from time to time, Ms F would instruct payments over and
above her usual monthly amounts. And that these were of a broadly similar value and
frequency to those she made as a result of the scam.
Ive considered that the scam payments all went to the same new payee and the payments
Ive referenced above went to a variety of beneficiaries / merchants. And its easy now we
know that Ms F was scammed to suggest that Monzo are at fault. But I dont think the
payments were so unusual and such a departure from the previous account activity that its
reasonable to have expected Monzo to have had concerns and to have done more than they
did before processing the payments.
As such, I cant fairly say that Monzo should have prevented Ms Fs loss and I dont need to
go on to consider whether a greater level of intervention would have made a difference. Im
satisfied that once notified, Monzo attempted recovery. But given Ms F herself had control of
the recipient account (and confirmed the money had already been used to buy
cryptocurrency before being lost to the scam), it isnt surprising they were told no funds
remained.
As I said at the start, Im sorry to hear Ms F has been a victim in this way and has lost somuch money. But as I dont think this is something Monzo are responsible for, Im not
intending to direct that they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Monzo responded and said they had nothing further to add. Ms F responded with some 
comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Fs further submissions is that she disagrees with my finding that it isnt 
reasonable to expect Monzo to have done more than they did before processing the 
payments she made towards the scam. She points out that the previous payments (in 
February 2021) were to a variety of beneficiaries / merchants (something I acknowledged in 
my provisional decision). And says that this distinguishes them from the scam payments 
(which went to the same beneficiary). She also said that she hadnt previously invested and 
such payments would have been unusual for someone with no investment experience. 
Ive considered these points and I acknowledge that there is a balance to be struck. Monzo 
shouldnt unduly interfere with their customers ability to freely use their accounts. But this 
must be balanced against Monzos obligations to be alert to potential fraud and scams. 
However, I remain of the opinion that, in the context of Ms Fs previous account activity, the 
payments werent so unusual, suspicious or indicative of potential fraud where I think its 
reasonable to expect Monzo to have done more. And so despite my natural sympathy for 
Ms F being the victim of a scam, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct 
Monzo to reimburse her. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman