DRN-2634224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc refused to allow them to port their mortgage. 
And they say that the possibility they might not be able to port and would need to pay an 
early redemption charge (ERC) wasnt adequately explained to them in the mortgage 
documentation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a repayment mortgage with Santander in 2013, with a five year fixed 
rate and associated ERC.
Mr and Mrs P redeemed the mortgage in September 2015, and paid an ERC of around 
£15,500.
Mrs P complained to Santander in 2019. But Santander didnt uphold her complaint. It said, 
in summary:
A porting application is classed as a new mortgage application and would be based 
on Santanders lending policy in 2015;
Santander does change its lending criteria from time to time and the lending criteria 
would have changed between 2013 when they took out the mortgage and 2015;
The mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs P in 2013 made it clear that an ERC would be 
charged if they redeemed their mortgage early;
It had been unable to find any further information about the declined application.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. And it was subsequently reviewed by a second investigator, who said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs P said that their porting application was declined over the phone. But 
Santander had said it had been unable to find any details about a porting application 
or any calls from Mr and Mrs P relating to porting. It had supplied some notes on a 
conversation with Mrs P in June 2015, but that conversation didnt appear to relate to 
porting and no application was made. On this evidence it did not seem that there had 
been a porting application so he couldnt reach a finding on any decline as it did not 
seem to have happened;
Mrs P had said that Santander hadnt done enough to draw their attention to the ERC 
that would be payable if she repaid early. But he noted that the mortgage sale had 
been advised by a third party. And he said that the responsibility for explaining the 
key features would lie with the third party.
He had reviewed the mortgage offer. He was satisfied that this set out how much 
would be payable if Mr and Mrs P choose to redeem the mortgage within the fixed 
period. And he felt that the ERC had been applied in line with the terms set out.
Mr and Mrs P do not agree with our investigators view. Mrs P says in particular that she 
would not have known about the change in lending criteria in 2015 if she hadnt asked to port 
the mortgage. And she says that she followed all of the porting application procedures and 
was refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered the evidence and arguments in this complaint Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigators, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, so Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P say that their porting application was declined over the 
phone. And Ive seen evidence that shows that Mrs P had a number of conversations with 
Santander in June 2015. But these conversations related to potentially extending the term 
for 25 years, and moving the mortgage to interest only. Im persuaded, on balance, that if 
Mrs P had made an application to port the mortgage this would also have been recorded in 
the telephone notes. And so, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P made a 
formal application to port their mortgage at that time. 
Mr and Mrs P redeemed their mortgage in September 2015. And they paid an early 
redemption charge of around £15,500. 
Ive looked at a copy of the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs P in 2013. This sets out at 
paragraph 10 that an ERC would be payable where the mortgage is redeemed before 
September 2018. And so Im satisfied from the evidence available to me that the ERC was 
correctly charged.
I appreciate that Mrs P says that information about the ERC was not adequately set out in 
the mortgage offer. But Ive looked at the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs P in July 2013. 
The mortgage offer says, under the heading What happens if you move house?:
If you move house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to another property subject to 
the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet under Transferring your loan to a 
new mortgage.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage conditions booklet. This makes it clear that any 
application to transfer must satisfy the lending criteria at the time. 
Im therefore satisfied that the documentation made it clear that porting was not guaranteed. 
And, while I would expect Santander to take account of Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
circumstances when considering any application from them to port their mortgage, as Ive 
set out above Im not persuaded that they did make a formal application to port in this case.
As Im not persuaded that Santander has made an error I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman