DRN-3091956
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly declined her critical 
illness claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2017 Mrs S was unfortunately diagnosed with breast cancer. 
In April 2018 she took out a critical illness policy through her employer. But sadly, Mrs S was 
diagnosed with lung cancer in June 2021. She made a claim to Aviva, but it was rejected. 
Aviva said Mrs Ss cancer was considered a pre-existing condition under the terms and 
conditions of its policy. Mrs S made a complaint to Aviva, but this wasnt upheld. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said she had 
received treatment for her breast cancer and was in remission since March 2018. And Aviva 
didnt contact her to check the policy was suitable when she joined her employers scheme. 
So, the claim should be paid.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs Ss cancer wasnt 
covered under the policy terms and conditions, so she said Aviva had fairly declined the 
claim. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she paid for this policy in good faith and has received a terminal 
diagnosis, which has meant she is struggling financially. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I was sorry to read of Mrs Ss condition and I realise my decision will be very 
disappointing for her. Id like to assure her that I havent taken this decision lightly. Ill explain 
why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Ive looked at the pre-existing conditions definition in the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss 
policy. Having done so, Im satisfied its clear. The policy says the pre-existing condition 
exclusion will be applied unless Mrs S has been treatment free for a period of five years, 
from the date of her previous diagnosis, and if the cancer isnt related to her previous 
diagnosis. But Im satisfied Mrs S was receiving treatment during the five years prior to the 
policy being taken out, and that letters from her medical advisors confirm the lesions in her 
lungs are of metastatic breast cancer. So, this means Im satisfied Aviva fairly declined her 
claim under the pre-existing condition exclusion. 
Mrs S is unhappy she wasnt contacted by Aviva to make sure the policy was suitable for 
her. But Mrs Ss policy wasnt underwritten when she joined her employers scheme, so she 
wasnt required to provide details of her medical history. And Aviva wasnt required to 
contact her to check whether the policy was suitable. So, its understandable that Aviva will 
include terms in the policy excluding claims for what it defines as pre-existing conditions. 
And this service doesnt consider these terms to be unreasonable in policies such as this.
I know Mrs S feels the policy didnt provide her with any benefit and she is unhappy Aviva 
cannot help her. But applying conditions such as this is standard practice for these types of 
policies. And Aviva must make sure it treats all its customers fairly by applying these 
conditions consistently when it considers claims such as this.
I know my decision leaves Mrs S in a difficult position following her diagnosis and her current 
state of health. Im sorry to disappoint her, but overall, Im not satisfied Aviva has made a 
mistake or treated her unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman