DRN-3431390
The complaint
Ms H complains about what she sees as service failures on the part of HSBC UK Bank Plc 
and about the way in which it has dealt with her financial difficulties. Specifically, she says:
She did not have access to online banking, so could not see messages from HSBC.
Charges and interest were applied to her current and credit card accounts, even though 
she had no income. 
The bank refused to extend her agreed overdraft. 
She had no access to her account so could not pay standing orders. 
What happened 
Mrs H had a credit card and current account with HSBC. The current account was 
overdrawn, and she had a balance of just over £4,500 on her credit card when, in about July 
2019, her income ceased. 
Mrs H says that she was unable at that time to access her accounts online. She could not 
therefore operate her accounts or properly monitor them. In addition, she was unable to see 
messages about her account from HSBC  even though she received emails alerting her to 
those messages. Those messages included information about how to access the accounts. 
Mrs H attended a branch in August 2019 to discuss matters. At that meeting, she handed in 
a letter expressing her concerns. HSBC acknowledges that that letter and a further 
handwritten communication should have been acted on but were not. It apologised and 
offered Ms H £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
HSBC would not agree to Ms Hs request that it extend her overdraft facility. It said too that 
any payments into her account would be used to reduce the overdraft. Ms H stopped using 
her accounts from about August 2019. 
Ms H also said that interest and charges on her credit card account should be suspended. 
Ultimately, she believes that HSBC should have written off her debts. Instead, it passed her 
accounts to a debt collection agency which is pursuing her for payment. 
Ms H referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He did not believe however that HSBC had treated Ms H unfairly. Ms H did not 
accept his assessment, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, this service was established to seek to resolve complaints 
quickly and informally. So, whilst Ms H has made a number of points and submitted many 
documents in support of her case, I have tried to focus on what I consider to be the main 
issues. I can assure her and the bank however that I have considered very carefully all the 
evidence and arguments here. 
I can understand that it would have been frustrating for Ms H when she was unable to 
access her accounts online. That frustration would no doubt have been compounded when 
she received emails from HSBC referring to messages that she was unable to access. 
However, I note that she stopped using her accounts from about August 2019. From that 
time, her primary dealings with the bank and her accounts concerned the overdraft and 
credit card debt  rather than, for example, day-to-day account operations. I am not 
persuaded therefore that any actual financial loss resulted. And I note as well that Ms H was 
able to contact the bank in other ways and was given a range of options of how to do so.
Ms H asked that communication with HSBC be in writing only. She has described her 
request as an instruction rather than a preference  which I take to mean that she thinks 
the bank was obliged to do as she asked. Generally, I would expect a bank to take account 
of a customers requests about how it should communicate, but I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in this case of HSBC to provide Ms H with other options for addressing her 
outstanding debts  for example, with telephone help lines. 
In any event, I think that HSBC did clearly communicate its position to Ms H. She knew that 
it was not prepared to extend her overdraft facility. It acknowledges that it should have 
responded to her handwritten letters, but I do not believe that its failure to do so caused any 
actual financial loss. 
HSBC was in my view within its rights to decline further overdraft facilities to Ms H. It is 
generally for banks to decide whether or not to lend or to continue to lend to any particular 
customer. Given that Ms H was unable to say how she would repay any increased debt, it 
was not unreasonable of HSBC to decline her request. 
Banks and other lenders should generally work with customers who are suffering financial 
difficulty to find a workable solution. That might involve debt forgiveness, payment plans and 
suspension of interest and charges. In my view, the bank did seek to work with Ms H in this 
case to find a solution. It appears that most of her credit card debt was interest-free in any 
event, and no interest was charged once the interest-free period came to an end. No 
charges were levied either, even though the account was over its credit limit and payments 
were not being made. 
Much of Ms Hs complaint concerns the way in which HSBC responded when addressing her 
complaint. As the investigator explained though, the handling of complaints is not, of itself, 
an activity which this service can investigate. It may be an activity which is ancillary to the 
provision of financial services giving rise to a complaint, but much of Ms Hs complaint is 
about the handling of the complaint itself. 
As I have indicated, I have gone into rather less detail than Ms H may have wished, but that 
is in line with the nature of an ombudsman service. Overall, however, I am satisfied that 
HSBCs response to Ms Hs various complaint points was reasonable in the circumstances.               My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require HSBC Bank UK Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman