DRN-2393437
The complaint
In summary, Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc made errors when setting up 
their mortgage, which caused delays. They thought the mortgage had been mis-sold, 
because if they had realised the re-mortgage process would take as long as it did, they 
would have re-mortgaged with a more competitive provider and obtained a better mortgage 
offer. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage came to an end in January 2020. Mr P contacted Santander in 
November 2019 about re-mortgage options it could offer them. They decided on a fixed rate 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Ps re-mortgage finally completed in January 2020. They raised their concerns 
with Santander about the impact of the delays in processing their re-mortgage application, 
and that they had been put onto a standard variable rate (SVR) mortgage when their 
mortgage account matured in January 2020.
Santander upheld their complaint. It explained that a refund had been made in respect the 
(SVR) interest they paid, due to the error that had caused delays with the re-mortgage onto 
the new fixed interest rate. And it offered £250 as a goodwill payment.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this. So, Santander reviewed their concerns again. It accepted 
that the information given to them about the mortgage product fee was incorrect. And it also 
accepted that they had been given incorrect information about not being expected to pay the 
increased SVR payment, which resulted in their account being debited for the incorrect 
amount. It acknowledged this caused Mr and Mrs P further distress. 
It also recognised that Mr and Mrs P had been proactive in contacting Santander throughout 
the re-mortgage process. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £500 for the inconvenience they 
had been caused. 
Mr and Mrs Ps concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She explained to Mr 
and Mrs P why she didnt think the mortgage had been mis-sold. She went on to say that 
she thought Mr and Mrs P had been put back into the position they should have been in if 
the errors hadnt occurred. She thought Santanders offer of £500 was fair, and the lost 
interest on the overpayment which she calculated at £2.47, took account of this. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They thought their complaint about the service they received 
from Santander had been addressed, but not enough consideration had been given to the 
mis-selling part of their complaint. They agreed Santander didnt knowingly mis-sell the 
mortgage and the advice at the start was spot on. But due to Santanders errors, the 
application was delayed a long time. Its advert of quick and easy mortgages was therefore 
false. As a result, they thought there should be some acknowledgement and compensation 
for this. 
The investigator went back to Mr and Mrs P and explained that Santander wasnt prepared 
to increase its offer. And she didnt think there was anything to support that a better rate 
would have been obtained elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Santander made mistakes when it processed Mr and 
Mrs Ps re-mortgage application. As Ive summarised above, Santander has accepted the 
information given to Mr and Mrs P about the mortgage product fee, was incorrect. And it also 
accepted that they had been given incorrect information about not being expected to pay the 
increased SVR payment. The payment of this resulted in their account being debited for the 
incorrect amount. It also acknowledged this caused Mr and Mrs P further distress.
 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs P have been compensated for the financial 
losses stemming from the mistakes Santander has made. Its repaid the additional interest 
they were charged as a result of them having to pay an SVR interest, until the fixed interest 
mortgage they had applied for had been set up.
 
Mr and Mrs P appear to accept that their concerns about the service they received during 
the re-mortgage process have been addressed. And they seem to be satisfied with the 
compensation they have been offered in respect of that aspect of their complaint. 
The outstanding issue which they dont think has been addressed fully, is their contention 
that the mortgage had been mis-sold. In their response to the investigators view, Mr and 
Mrs P acknowledged that their mortgage hadnt knowingly been mis-sold by Santander and 
its advice had been spot on.
 
But I dont agree with their argument that the mortgage had been mis-sold as a result of the 
time it took for it to be completed, which was longer than they think they were led to believe. 
I say this for several reasons.  
Firstly, Mr and Mrs P said in their response to the investigator, that Santander didnt 
knowingly in their view mis-sell the mortgage. I accept that the mortgage could have 
inadvertently been mis-sold, but Ive not seen enough evidence which suggests Santander 
deliberately misled them regarding the time it would take to complete the mortgage.
In addition, it seems to me that what Mr and Mrs P consider to be mis-selling, was in fact 
poor administration and customer service on the part of Santander, when providing them 
with information about the mortgage and processing their re-mortgage application. I think 
that if Santander hadnt made the mistakes it did, then the whole process could and should 
have been much quicker. So, I dont think those mistakes which Santander has 
acknowledged it made, constitute mis-selling in the way that Mr and Mrs P think they do.
The mistakes Santander made arent something which it, or Mr and Mrs P would have been 
able to know about before they happened. If something about the length of time the process 
would take had been deliberately misrepresented by Santander to Mr and Mrs P, then I 
might be able to understand their point of view. 
But as Ive explained above, I dont think that was the case here. And as a result, I cant 
safely say that Mr and Mrs P would have acted any differently as a result of anything 
Santander did or didnt do as part of the advice process. I accept that with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs P might have proactively investigated 
re-mortgaging with another provider, if they had realised Santander would provide the level 
of service that it did, or make the mistakes that it did. 
As Ive said, what Mr and Mrs P experienced was poor service and administration on the 
part of Santander. It has acknowledged this and paid them £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience they incurred as a result of this. Ive thought very carefully about the impact of 
this on Mr and Mrs P. And I think what they have told our service and Santander about the 
inconvenience and stress caused by the delays and having incorrect payments taken out of 
their bank account, was upsetting for them to say the least.  And Im satisfied that they have 
had to expend time and effort to get their mortgage application back on track.
But its not my role to make any form of punitive award against Santander. And I dont have 
the authority to do so. So, having considered the impact on Mr and Mrs P of what Santander 
did wrong, I think the £500 it has offered and paid is an appropriate sum to compensate 
them for all aspects of their complaint. I acknowledge that a compensatory interest payment 
would normally be warranted on the additional amount they had to pay in interest. But 
overall, I think the payment made by Santander covers that small amount of interest. And, 
taking into account the £500 Santander has already paid to Mr and Mrs P, I dont believe it 
needs to make any further payments. 
I do understand that Mr and Mrs P will undoubtedly be disappointed with my decision. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Santander needs to do anymore. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already paid Mr and Mrs P £500 to settle the complaint and I think 
this payment is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that if Mr and Mrs P have cashed the cheque Santander UK Plc sent 
them, then Santander UK Plc doesnt need to do anything else. If Mr and Mrs P havent 
cashed the cheque and only if they are no longer able to cash it, then if they want to accept 
Santanders offer, it should pay them £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman