DRN-3541680
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc was unreasonable in its requests 
for information and didnt act fairly when closing its account.
What happened
T explains that it was a long-standing customer of HSBC. And that for years it has been 
compelled to provide the same information about its business to HSBC. In January 2022 it 
was given notice that its account would be closed. No reason had been provided and HSBC 
hadnt communicated with it for two and a half months before that. HSBC had a regulatory 
duty to treat its customers fairly and it hadnt done so here. T had difficulty finding an 
account with a different financial business. It wants the account closure reversed and 
compensation for the time spent in dealing with this.
HSBC said that it had asked for the information as part of its safeguard review. It said that it 
had a legal requirement to show that it knew and understood who its customers were. And it 
didnt think it unreasonable that T be asked to provide information as part of the review. It 
said that the decision to close the account was made after a thorough review of your 
account and was a necessary part of the management and practices by which HSBC 
chooses to operate its business. It has now offered to pay T £100 to reflect the lack of 
response to emails sent to a member of its staff who was away for an extended period.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the letters 
about the safeguard review stated that a possible outcome may be that HSBC decided no 
longer to provide banking services. It had given notice of closure in line with the terms and 
conditions which stated that We may close an account or withdraw any service by giving 
you at least two months notice. It wasnt obliged to explain why the service was being 
withdrawn. And T had equal cancellation rights and so there was no imbalance in the terms. 
The obligation to treat customers fairly didnt mean that HSBC had to provide banking 
facilities in perpetuity and HSBC could chose who to provide services to.
Although at Ts request wed asked HSBC to consider delaying the account closure while 
the complaint was considered, HSBC wasnt required to do so. He said that HSBC had 
made a commercial decision to continue with the account closure. 
He noted that T had emailed a member of HSBC staff a number of times between 3 
November 2021 and 14 January 2022. There was reference to a successful call on 15 
November 2021, but it hadnt received a response to further contact. When the member of 
staff returned it was confirmed that the account closure would go ahead. Our investigator 
thought that the compensation of £100 offered for this was reasonable noting that although T 
didnt want to call that seemed to be the primary method of contact for the safeguard 
process. And T could have attempted this given how important the issue was. He noted that 
the director of T said he was distressed but explained that we could only consider the impact 
for T the complainant here. It was a limited company that couldnt suffer distress.
T didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. HSBC chose to provide it with 
services and if there was no cause to stop doing so then this was self-evidently unfair. It 
could have sent T, a blameless business, into liquidation. This was an abuse of power by 
HSBC and T thought that this service was set up to protect the little people. We had sided 
with HSBC and allowed its terms and conditions to override its regulatory duty to treat 
customers fairly. T said we have a narrow view of what treating customers fairly meant and 
that wed left it to HSBC to decide that for itself. And if it was deemed to make a commercial 
decision then it could treat customers with impunity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution on an impartial basis 
and take into account any relevant regulations and legislation. If T doesnt accept my 
decision it is free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
HSBC has established terms and conditions for its banking facilities. These provide that T or 
HSBC can end the banking relationship under certain conditions. There was no guarantee 
for T that an account would be provided indefinitely. I dont consider that there is anything 
inherently unfair about that for T. Here HSBC gave T notice of closure as was required under 
those terms and conditions and didnt have to explain its reasons to T.
I consider that HSBC was entitled to review and decide to change who it provided facilities 
to. I wouldnt expect it to exercise that commercial discretion without due process. It told T 
that it had reviewed its account before it made a decision. Ive seen evidence that supports 
this and so I dont agree with T that the application of the terms here was unfair and didnt 
take into account information T had provided. I appreciate the impact for T of losing its 
account and its explained that it found it difficult to secure an account elsewhere. But here 
as HSBC provided the required notice I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the impact on 
T or say it ought to have delayed this while we looked into things.
I know that T was unhappy with the safeguard exercise. I dont doubt that there was some 
inconvenience involved but this was one way in which HSBC stated it meets its legal and 
regulatory obligations. And this was carried out regularly to see if any information had 
changed. Clearly T is particularly dissatisfied with communication from November 2021 and 
the lack of response to emails and that in the meantime it received a notice of closure. I think 
that HSBC could have put in place measures for dealing with the impact of such staff 
absence. But T could have called when there was no response too. And I dont find evidence 
to show that the lack of response affected the closure decision which HSBC confirmed still 
stood. HSBC has offered to pay £100 which I think is reasonable given what Ive said about 
the account closure.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to pay T £100 to settle this complaint which I consider to be fair in 
the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman