DRN-2960913
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him payments on his credit card that he 
says were made to a fraudulent merchant. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In September 2019 Mr W was called by a company who said they could help him invest in 
cryptocurrency that Ill refer to as R. Mr W went on to make two payments on his Santander 
credit card which totalled around £1,300. A few days later there was a credit back onto his 
card of £300.
Mr W says that he lost money and was being pressured into depositing more. He formed the 
opinion that R were operating a scam and asked Santander to help him recover his money. 
Santander considered both the chargeback process and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) but said that neither could help return Mr Ws money. However they 
accepted that they provided some poor service around their processes and credited Mr W 
with £150 compensation for the impact of this. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. In summary, she agreed with Santander that there was no basis upon 
which Santander ought to refund Mr W. As he disagrees, Mr W has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback 
route to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. 
But in this case, Mr W has provided receipts showing that his funds were converted into 
cryptocurrency upon payment. The nature of his claim is that R were operating a scam and 
that they didnt provide goods or services to him. But this isnt something the chargeback 
scheme provides protection against in these circumstances. So, I dont think Santander 
acted unfairly when failing to take a chargeback further, as I dont think there was any 
avenue for them to pursue that had any prospect of success. 
Section 75 of the CCA gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract 
and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the supplier of goods 
or services. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain 
between the debtor (Mr W), creditor (Santander) and the supplier (In this case, R). And any 
claim being made would have to relate to a breach of contract and or a misrepresentation 
between Mr C and R in relation to a contract that was funded by the Santander credit card. 
But in this case, there is nothing to link the payment to R. Mr W has provided receipts which 
show that the payments were made to what appears to be a cryptocurrency exchange Ill 
refer to as C. The evidence from Santander supports that the two card payments went to C, 
not R. As such, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor creditor 
supplier chain was unbroken. As such, I cant fairly criticise Santander for not further 
investigating a claim under Section 75. 
And whilst this wasnt a core part of Mr Ws complaint, for completeness I consider the £150 
compensation that Santander offered for the service failings surrounding this matter to be 
fair. Im sorry Mr W lost most of the funds he paid, but I dont think there is a reasonable 
basis upon which I can ask Santander to reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman