DRN-3617218
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA declined her claim under buyer 
protection.
What happened
Ms B purchased a coat from eBay which was advertised as new. When the coat arrived, it 
was too small and had signs of previous wear. Ms B contacted eBay, who issued a returns 
label and asked Ms B to return the coat. She returned the coat on 25 March 2022. Ebay then 
asked Ms B to upload proof of return but she was unable to access her account. Ms B raised 
a claim with PayPal buyer protection on 31 March 2022.
PayPal declined the claim on the grounds that Ms B no longer had the item in her 
possession at the time she opened the claim.
Ms B was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the terms of PayPal buyer 
protection had been followed correctly. The investigator also said that , although PayPal 
shouldve considered whether there was a valid claim under section 75, any such claim was 
likely to have been rejected as there wasnt enough evidence to show that there had been a  
breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Ms B didnt agree. She said that eBay had accepted her return but had subsequently locked 
her out of her account as she was unbale to upload proof of return. Ms B provided some 
photos of herself wearing the coat which she said showed that the coat was too small and 
that the label had faded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms of the PayPal buyer protection scheme. This sets out the steps that 
a customer should take when opening a claim. Step 4 says that the customer should comply 
with PayPals request to ship the item back to the seller in a timely manner.
Theres nothing in the terms which expressly states that a claim cant be opened if the item 
has already been returned. However, step 4 implies that the customer should retain the item 
until requested by PayPal to return it.
Taking this into account, Im satisfied that PayPal applied the terms of its buyer protection 
scheme correctly. I dont think PayPal acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined Ms 
Bs claim.
PayPal hasnt considered whether Ms B would have a claim under section 75. In certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of goods or 
the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Ive looked at the available evidence to see whether theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. Ms B has said that the coat was advertised as new with tags in size L, 
but that when it arrived, it was too small, and she thinks it had shrunk in the wash because 
the label was faded.
In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, Id need to see evidence that the 
goods werent of satisfactory quality. In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, id 
need to be satisfied that the coat wasnt as described. Ms B hasnt been able to provide the 
original description / advertisement of the coat. Without this evidence, there isnt enough 
information for me to say that there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Ive taken into account everything that Ms B has said, and I understand her disappointment 
about whats happened here. However, for the reasons Ive explained above, there isnt 
enough evidence for me to say that theres been a breach of contract, or that PayPal should 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman