DRN-1881183
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr I are unhappy with the way Assurant General Insurance Limited handled their 
mobile phone insurance claim. They say they shouldve been contacted before a 
replacement handset was sent to them because this is what the terms and conditions say 
should happen. 
What happened
Our Investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said that Assurant should pay
Mrs M and Mr I £50 for the trouble and upset it caused them after it failed to contact them to 
let them know they wouldnt receive the same handset after they made a claim.
Assurant has asked for an Ombudsman review. It says the phone it sent was an upgraded 
version and its business process is to provide a replacement handset as close to the original 
device as possible. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Firstly, Assurant has raised some issues with the second claim Mrs M and Mr I have made. 
But I cant consider that here as it isnt a part of this complaint. So, Ive only considered the 
circumstances surrounding the first claim that was made. 
I understand that the terms and conditions allow Assurant to send a replacement handset as 
close to the original device as possible. But they also say if the same make and model isnt 
available Mrs M and Mr I would be given a choice of models with a similar specification. And 
they werent here. Im not satisfied that the replacement phone was the same so Assurant 
shouldve spoken to them first to discuss the options. 
Putting things right
The investigator has explained why he felt Assurant should pay £50 to recognise the trouble 
and upset which has been caused to Mrs M and Mr I. Having considered this carefully, I 
agree that Assurant shouldve contacted Mrs M and Mr I first. This couldve led to Assurant 
discussing the different options and explaining the situation to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Assurant General Insurance Limited should 
pay Mrs M and Mr I £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.Mark Dobson
Ombudsman