The complaint  
Mrs C complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) caused unnecessary delays  
when she tried to withdraw funds from her account.  
What happened  
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything  
again here.  
In brief summary, Mrs C attempted to make four withdrawals of £100,000, making a total of  
£400,000 between September 2020 and February 2021. She experienced significant delays  
while trying to make these withdrawals and sp ent time trying to chase these up with NS&I.  
NS&I said that the delays were largely unavoidable due to issues caused by COVID -19. But  
it did recognise that the second withdrawal had been delayed due to human error. Because  
of this it offered to reimburse M rs C with the loss of interest at 8% simple that she incurred  
on the days after when she should have received the payments, as well as £300  
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs C did not agree with this as  
she was concerned that NS&I  had breached the contractual terms and conditions for the  
account when delaying the withdrawals, that it hadnt helped her during the process and she  
had lost significantly more that £2,079.73 in interest as she had lost the opportunity to invest  
in UK equities at a pivotal time in 2020 due to the withdrawal delays.  
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the  
complaint. My provisional decision read as follows:  
One of the main points of this complaint is the delay  Mrs C faced when trying to withdraw her  
funds from her NS&I income bonds. Ive firstly focused on the three payments that NS&I say  
were delayed because of COVID -19. Having looked at the file, I agree this must have been  
frustrating for Mrs C considering t hat she was expecting the funds to be withdrawn in a few  
days. However, one of her requests took around a month to be processed.  
On the other hand, I can understand that from NS&Is perspective, COVID -19 would have  
impacted its ability to process withdraw als requested by consumers. Theyve mentioned  
issues with employees being unable to work from home and severe staff shortages which  
led to delays for its customers.  
While I can appreciate that some delays can be expected due to staff shortages brought  
about by COVID -19, I dont think its fair that Mrs C should be expected to bear the full cost  
of the delays in the individual circumstances here.  
Ive also kept in mind that Mrs C put in her initial request for a withdrawal on 28 September  
2020, which was s ome six months into the pandemic. So, while I can appreciate that NS&I  
was having delays as a result of the pandemic, it already had a few months to react and  
work out a response to the issues it faced and set up new processes as needed.  
DRN-3336747 
There is inconsis tency within the three requests themselves that were affected by  
COVID -19; withdrawal 1, withdrawal 3 and withdrawal 4 as set out above. The first took 17  
days from NS&I receiving the form to the payment being validated, withdrawal 3 took 32  
days and the final one took 10 days. The timings of these vary significantly and NS&I has not  
been able to give a more detailed explanation as to how these withdrawals in particular were  
specifically affected by delays relating to COVID -19. NS&I has said the time t aken for the  
security checks, which comprise of a bank verification and signature check, to be completed  
is normally two working days. However, for Mrs C the security checks took; 17 days, 1 day,  
24 days and 5 days. Again, these vary significantly, and I c an understand Mrs C questioning  
why some were completed within the normal timeframe whereas others took 12 times longer  
than usual.  
 
Even taking into account the impact COVID -19 had on NS&Is ability to process withdrawals,  
some of these timeframes dont s eem reasonable to me. And I dont think that Mrs C should  
have to bear any reasonable loss she has incurred as a result of these delays in full. So, the  
question becomes - what is a reasonable length of time to process a withdrawal request  
while dealing wi th the impact of COVID -19? 
 
This is inevitably going to be a subjective answer as what may be reasonable for one person  
may not feel reasonable for another. Ive focused on the individual payments that were  
delayed. As mentioned earlier, from the form bein g received to the payment being keyed  
took 17 days with Withdrawal 1 and 32 days with Withdrawal 3. Even with COVID -19 in  
mind, these feel excessive. Withdrawal 4 took 10 days from the form being received to the  
payment being keyed, with an additional two days after that for the payment to reach Mrs Cs  
account. While this is still slower than it would be in times unaffected by COVID -19  I have  
to be fair to both sides here and consider the issues NS&I were facing. With those issues in  
mind this feels like a more reasonable timeframe. So, 12 days feels like a reasonable  
timeframe to apply to the other withdrawals, even considering the time for a payment to  
reach Mrs Cs account being affected by a weekend.  
 
Im therefore currently minded to recommend th at NS&I apply a refund which, in line with  
their previous recommendation on withdrawal 2, is for withdrawals 1 and 3. That is to apply  
8% simple interest minus the interest the bond was earning at the time from when Ive  
decided the payment should have been made (12 days after the form was received) to the  
day before the payment was actually received in Mrs Cs account. And I think it should still  
honour the offer previously made on withdrawal 2 of £2,079.73 as this was relating to a  
clerical error, and not COVID -19 related delays.  
 
Loss of opportunity  
 
I understand that Mrs C does not agree that 8% simple interest is a fair percentage to apply  
to the refund, as she says she could have taken advantage of UK equities at a key time  
which would have brought significant returns over a long period of time. Mr C has explained  
in detail what products Mrs C could have invested in at the time NS&I were delaying her fund  
withdrawals and the losses that have flowed from this.  
 
Ive thought about this carefully and it s important to note that in order for me to put Mrs C  
back in the position she would have been in had the withdrawals not be delayed, I have to  
consider what Mrs Cs plans were for the funds prior to the delays. If its clear there was a  
specific product that she intended to reinvest in, then any losses from the missed opportunity 
should be taken into account.  
 
Ive firstly considered what Mrs C has said about what she intended to do with the funds.  
Mr C has mentioned two specific open -ended investment com pany funds which he says is a  reasonable illustration of the potential loss Mrs C has incurred. But this appears to be an  
example of the kind of product Mrs C could have invested in and Mrs C isnt saying she had  
specific plans to invest in those products.  I can see that in Mrs Cs letter of complaint to  
NS&I in November 2020 she said that they had denied her the chance to reinvest her funds  
in a range of opportunities of her choosing. She uses the increase in equity prices and  
decline in the range of cash investment products as an example of the losses she has  
incurred. But again, she hasnt set out a specific product that she intended to invest her  
funds in prior to the delays occurring.  
 
As I cant see that Mrs C had a specific plan in place for the funds, Ive considered what she  
did do with the funds once she received them. Mrs C has said she has now placed the funds  
in cash deposits. Shes said this is because she did not have access to the funds when the  
market was best placed to invest in UK equi ties in October 2020. But I have to consider that  
Mrs C did receive the first £100,000 on 16 October 2020, at the time in which she says there  
were good opportunities to invest in UK equities. But she chose to place this in cash 
deposits instead. I appreci ate Mrs C has said this is because she was unsure what was  
happening with the remainder of her funds, but its difficult for me to agree that its more  
likely than not that she would have invested her funds in alternative products when she didnt  
do so at the time.  
 
Compensation for trouble and upset  
 
Mrs C has mentioned a number of telephone calls she had to make during this time as well  
as numerous letters that she sent to the complaint department and the Chief Executive. Its  
clear that the situation has been stressful and has inconvenienced Mrs C.  
 
NS&I originally offered £300 compensation, which Mrs C has said is not enough and doesnt  
take into account the time since the complaint has been with our service. Id like to clarify  
that when co nsidering the trouble and upset that the delays have caused Mrs C, Im only  
considering what has happened in relation to the errors surrounding the delays but not in  
how NS&I have handled the complaint itself since then. This is because complaint handling  
is not classed as a regulated activity by the rules we operate under, so isnt something I can  
consider.  
 
Having said that, I do think that the delays would have caused Mrs C distress and  
inconvenience, especially when considering the amounts involved. I t hink NS&I could have  
dealt with Mrs Cs enquiries better and that the initial offer didnt also take into account the  
delays around Withdrawals 1 and 3. Though I do think its reasonable that the Chief  
Executive did not personally respond to Mrs Cs complaint and that it was referred to the  
complaints department to deal with. That is NS&Is policy and, while its responses may not  
have been what Mrs C wanted to read, or from who she specifically wanted to communicate  
with, NS&I did nonetheless respond  to her. So, having carefully considered everything, I  
think £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable in the  
circumstances.  
 
NS&I accepted the recommendation in my provisional decision.  
 
Mrs C responded with a number of add itional points. In summary she said:  
 
 I had not considered the fact that NS&I breached the contractual terms of the 
account by delaying the withdrawals.  
 
 Mrs C feels the 8% simple interest I have recommended should be paid applied to 
the date of settlement , and should not be limited to the timeframes I set out in my 
provisional decision.   
 I had not mentioned in my provisional decision the fact that her account had been 
blocked for a considerable amount of time meaning she had no access to her funds.  
 
 I had misrepresented some of the facts of the case, such as Mrs Cs intention to 
withdraw the funds in amounts of £100,000, which Mrs C says was not her initial 
intention.  
 
 Mrs C feels I have disregarded evidence concerning various aspects of her 
complaint. This  includes letters NS&I sent Mrs C in which they invite her to telephone 
them and evidence provided around the wider issues NS&I was facing at the time of 
the withdrawals.  
 
 Mrs C feel I have questioned her integrity and misrepresented her evidence when 
comi ng to the conclusion that its more likely Mrs C would have reinvested her funds 
in cash bonds.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Mrs C has responded to my provisional decision at length. Ill focus on what I think are the  
important points that I need to in order to reach the final decision I have here. Ive carefully  
considered all the points she has made, even if I don t specifically address them.  
 
Firstly, Mrs C would like me to consider that NS&I breached the contractual terms of the  
account by delaying the withdrawals. Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, it  
states that when we receive your instruction  on a banking day before 13:00, well process it  
on the next banking day. The payment will then normally reach your nominated account two  
banking days after that.  Its clear that Mrs Cs payments took longer than the timeline set  
out in the terms and cond itions for the account.  
 
But I also recognise that there were external factors that were affecting NS&Is ability to  
process the payments in a timely manner. While I do take into consideration relevant law  
and regulatory guidelines, I also have to consider  what I think is fair and reasonable. And I  
dont think its fair to expect NS&I to adhere to the timeline set out in the terms and  
conditions of the account when there has been a global pandemic that has affected their  
ability to function effectively as a  business and has significantly impacted their staff. So,  
while I do accept that NS&I have not processed the withdrawal in -line with the terms of the  
account, I dont think it is unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I explained in  
my provis ional decision that I felt a total of 12 days from the form being received by NS&I to  
the payment being received by Mrs C felt fair in the circumstances and I still think that is  
correct.  
 
Mrs C has said that she feels the 8% simple interest I recommended should be paid from the  
date the withdrawals should have been received to the date of settlement. And that this is in  
line with how 8% simple interest is applied in other cases. It is correct that there are some  
circumstances in which it is appropriate for  8% simple interest to be applied to a payment up  
until the date that payment is received. But each case is assessed on its individual merits  
and in this case, the 8% simple interest is there to reimburse Mrs C for the loss of interest  
she incurred for the period of time in which she did not have access to her withdrawals due  
to the unnecessary delays incurred by NS&I. So, the 8% simple interest should only apply to  
the days between when I think Mrs C should have received the funds and when she actually  received them.  
 
Mrs C says I have not considered the complaint point that NS&I blocked access to her  
account. And that she should receive 8% simple interest on the funds in her account that she  
did not have access to. NS&I have said that a sec urity marker is placed on accounts while  
security checks are being completed. This means access to the account is restricted while  
the security checks are being completed. I dont think this in itself is unreasonable as its  
designed to protect Mrs Cs acco unt in case of a fraudulent withdrawal.  
 
It took a total of 47 days for security checks to be completed on Mrs Cs withdrawals, which I  
explained in my provisional decision I felt was excessive. Mrs C feels she should receive 8%  
simple interest on the fund s remaining in her account that she did not have access to during  
this time. But I dont agree this is reasonable. The error NS&I has made is not processing  
Mrs Cs withdrawals in a timely manner, so I think its fair they should pay her interest on the  
amounts she attempted to withdraw for the period of time that I think she should have had  
those funds available to her. But Mrs C hadnt also attempted to withdraw the remaining  
funds, which she could have done by making larger withdrawals if she felt it was  necessary.  
But Mrs C has said she felt she had to make the withdrawals in tranches of £100,000  
because of the initial delay NS&I caused on the first payment. While I appreciate Mrs C  
made this decision based on the actions of NS&I  it was still her choic e to limit her future  
withdrawals. Ultimately, I dont think it would be fair for NS&I to also pay interest on the  
funds Mrs C did not attempt to withdraw at the time.  
 
Finally, I understand that Mrs C feels I have questioned her integrity when considering  what I  
think she would have done with the funds had the delays not occurred. This was not my  
intention and in situations where I have to consider what I think is more likely to have  
happened, I have to consider the evidence available to me. As explained in my provisional  
decision, without evidence that Mrs C had made similar investments in the past or that she  
had a clear plan to invest in a specific product, considering that she did then invest the first  
£100,000 withdrawal in cash bonds, its difficult for me to agree she would have acted  
differently had she received all the funds in a timely manner.  
 
Having considered all of Mrs Cs additional comments, my provisional findings have not  
changed. Because of this, I uphold the complaint as set ou t in my provisional decision.  
 
Putting things right  
 
I direct NS&I to apply 8% simple interest minus the interest the bond was earning at the time  
from when Ive decided the payment should have been made (12 days after the form was  
received) to the day bef ore the payment was actually received in Mrs Cs account for  
payments 1 and 3. It should still honour the offer previously made on withdrawal 2 of  
£2,079.73 and it should pay Mrs C £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.  
 
My final deci sion 
 
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to remedy it as per  
my suggestion above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or  
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.  
 
Rebecca Norris  
Ombudsman  