DRN-4330874
The complaint
Mr D complains that Itc Compliance Limited (ITC) arranged a Guaranteed Asset Protection 
(GAP) policy in his name even though he wasnt buying a car.  
The policy was sold by an appointed representative of ITC. As ITC are accountable for the 
actions of the agent, any reference to ITC includes the actions of the agent. 
Mr Ds complaint has been brought by a representative. But, for ease of reference, I will refer 
to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr D or the representative as Mr D 
throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr D says he went with his partner to a garage to buy a car. He says his partner bought the 
car and paid a deposit of £250. Mr D says this included a GAP policy which the garage sold 
as an appointed representative of ITC. He says all paperwork was in his partners name.    
Mr D says, later in the year, his partner was involved in an accident which led to her motor 
insurer writing off the car. He says his partner contacted the GAP insurer, but they informed 
her the policy was in Mr Ds name. Mr D queried this with ITC, and they sent him paperwork 
showing he had signed the car order form and agreement. Mr D complained to ITC and said 
he didnt sign any paperwork and the signature isnt his. He also said the documents had 
been altered by replacing his partners name with his name. 
ITC responded and explained the car and GAP policy was bought by Mr D. They said Mr D 
and his partner agreed to buy a car and an order form was raised in Mr Ds partners name  
and a deposit of £250 was paid. They explained the original order was then changed a few 
days later on Mr Ds request, into his own name. ITC said all relevant documents listed Mr D 
as the buyer. They also explained Mr Ds claim under his GAP insurance was declined as he 
didnt adhere to key eligibility criteria requiring him to have fully comprehensive insurance. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service as he says his partner bought the car and the 
GAP insurance shouldve been in her name. He refers to the order form and deposit receipt 
in his partners name and says this proves the car wasnt bought in his name, and ITC have 
made an error in taking out the GAP insurance in his name.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought ITC hadnt made an error in 
arranging the policy. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. When taking 
out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an insurance intermediary who is 
responsible for arranging, selling and administering the policy  often this will be a broker. In 
this case, the broker is ITC. The insurer is the business which underwrites the GAP policy 
and is responsible for making a decision on any claim. So, while the GAP insurer has 
declined the claim, my decision here focuses only on the actions of ITC in selling the policy. 
The key dispute here relates to the sales process and who bought the car and GAP policy. 
So, Ive considered all the evidence and decided, on the balance of probabilities, what I 
believe more likely than not has happened here. Mr D has provided information which shows 
an order form and deposit receipt in his partners name dated 13 January 2022. Theres no 
dispute between the parties that these documents were prepared for Mr Ds partner to buy 
the car. ITC say the situation changed a few days later when Mr D decided to buy the car in 
his name and amended documents were prepared for this. Theyve provided a copy of a 
deposit receipt dated 17 January in Mr Ds name. 
ITC have also provided a demands and needs document dated 17 January, and this 
contains Mr Ds details. This document contains a heading which says, Summary of 
discussions to enable an informed buying decision. It goes further to say, During 
discussions we asked a number of questions and provided various information relating to the 
insurance products we are able to offer. Details of our questions, your responses and the 
products that we believe may be suitable for your needs are recorded belowIt is important 
that you review this informationto ensure the answers accurately reflect your responses 
and that any policies offered meet your ongoing needs. 
The questions contain responses which includes Mr Ds personal details, details of the car 
and finance information. Theres a list of suitability questions which have also been 
considered and answered and specific questions about the GAP insurance policy. I think its 
important here to note, a demands and needs document is prepared for the purpose of 
understanding a customers requirements, and then assessing the customers eligibility and 
the policys suitability. In this case, this has been done in relation to the GAP policy  and its 
in Mr Ds name.     
ITC have also provided a copy of an order form  in Mr Ds name - which contains a 
signature and is dated 22 January. Theres no dispute between the parties that the garage 
arranged finance in Mr Ds name for the sum of £4,828. ITC have provided a copy of the 
finance agreement and I can see this contains details of the car, is for the sum of £4,828, 
and the credit has been taken out in Mr Ds name. The finance agreement contains a typed 
signature for Mr D and is dated 22 January. 
The information shows a number of documents which all support ITCs account that the car 
and policy was bought by Mr D. The documents, when looked at together, not only provide a 
contemporaneous account of the sale process, but also forms a chain showing the full sale 
process. For example, they show a deposit being paid on the same day the demands and 
needs document is assessed, and then an order form is signed, and the finance is arranged 
on the same day. Taking all the information into account, Im persuaded ITC havent made 
an error in taking out the GAP policy in Mr Ds name. 
I do acknowledge Mr Ds points about the order form and deposit receipt in his partners 
name. But Im persuaded by ITCs account that these documents were processed following 
the original instruction that his partner would be buying the car  so I would expect to see 
these documents in his partners name. But I believe the instructions then changed. Im 
particularly persuaded this is the case because, as mentioned above, the chronology of 
events set out by ITC is supported by the dates on the relevant documents. And, apart from 
the order form and deposit information, I havent seen any other contemporaneous evidence which shows any other arrangements were made in Mr Ds partners name  such as the 
demands and needs assessment. 
I note Mr D says the signature on the order form isnt his. I understand he believes this has 
been forged. I do acknowledge Mr Ds concern, but I dont believe the evidence supports 
this. As mentioned above, the combination of all documents in Mr Ds name, together with 
how they all fit in the chronology of the sale process, persuades me its more likely than not 
ITC were acting on instructions for Mr D to be the buyer of the car and GAP policy. Given 
that this order form isnt inconsistent with other arrangements which were made during the 
sale process, I cant say the evidence supports a finding that Mr D didnt sign the order form. 
Mr D also points out that the date of birth showing on this order form isnt his but is his 
partners date of birth. I agree with Mr Ds point here, but I dont believe this suggests the 
document has been altered without Mr Ds knowledge. ITC explain the buyer details were 
amended on their system to produce an amended order form, so it appears the date of birth 
not being amended was an oversight. This does appear to be an error, but it doesnt change 
my view that ITC didnt make an error in arranging the GAP policy in Mr Ds name. 
Mr D says the car is registered in his partners name, so it shows the car was bought in her 
name. ITC say they dont tax used cars for customers  they say this is arranged by 
customers so they can choose what name a car is registered to. They say the V5C logbook 
isnt proof of ownership  and just shows the details of the registered keeper. I do 
acknowledge Mr Ds points here, but the V5C logbook shows who the registered keeper is of 
the car. And it does make it clear that the document isnt proof of ownership. So, I dont 
believe the car being registered in Mr Ds partners name demonstrates ITC made an error in 
arranging the GAP insurance in Mr Ds name.  
I understand Mr D will be disappointed, and I acknowledge hes been left frustrated after the 
GAP insurer declined the claim. But, in this complaint, Im only looking at the actions of ITC 
in arranging the policy. And for the reasons mentioned above, I cant say theyve made an 
error. I wish to reassure Mr D Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman