DRN-4058974
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd unfairly blocked his account. He says this caused him 
financial problems and he wants compensation.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Revolut.
In July 2022, Revolut carried out a review on Mr Cs account. Whilst it completed the review 
Revolut blocked Mr Cs account, which meant he wasnt able to use the account or access 
any funds held in it.
 
As part of its review, Revolut asked Mr C to provide information about another account he 
held and proof of his salary. Mr C provided this on 14 July 2022. The account was blocked 
from 13  25 July 2022.
 
Mr C says the block to his account was inconvenient and meant he wasnt able to cover the 
cost of travelling to work. He says the knock on effect of not being able to access the funds 
in his account meant he lost out on wages, missed loan and credit card repayments, and 
didnt have enough money to buy food. He also says that when he contacted Revolut about 
what was happening with his account Revolut wouldnt give him any information, which he 
found frustrating and time consuming. So, he said Revolut should pay him compensation.
Mr C complained to Revolut. In response, it said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had 
decided to block Mr Cs account. But it accepted its service fell short and offered Mr C £75 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill.  Mr C wasnt happy with this response and brought 
his complaint to our service. He said the compensation Revolut offered doesnt adequately 
reflect the amount of trouble, upset and financial losses he suffered.
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. Based on the evidence, he didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Revolut to block M Cs account. However, he said Revolut took too 
long to complete its review and couldve done things much quicker. So, he said Revolut 
should pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the time 
it had taken to complete its review.
Revolut agreed. Mr C didnt. He wants more compensation. He argued that he spent a 
number of hours trying to sort things out with Revolut and lost out on wages so he should be 
compensated for this, and the length of time he couldnt access his funds.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Revolut has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime. To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within them. And it may also 
ask a customer to provide information about certain transactions and the source of funds in 
an account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with these 
obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Cs account. And asked him for information. It 
was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. So, I cant say Revolut treated 
Mr C unfairly when it decided to block and review his account.
However, while Revolut are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Revolut initially blocked Mr Cs account on 13 July 
2022.  I can see that Revolut asked Mr C to provide it with information and that Mr C 
complied with the request promptly and supplied the information to Revolut on 14 July 2022.  
However, following this, Mr Cs account remained blocked for a further 11 days, until 25 July 
2022.  
I havent seen any evidence that Revolut asked Mr C for further information or that there 
were any issues with the information he provided. Revolut has accepted it should have 
unblocked Mr Cs account sooner than it did and has explained that it was dealing with 
backlogs at the time. So, Im satisfied that there were unnecessary delays in Revolut 
completing the review of Mr Cs account. Revolut has agreed with the investigators view to 
pay Mr C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. 
In response to the investigators view Mr C said £150 compensation isnt enough. Hes 
explained that he couldnt afford to travel to work so he missed out on wages. Hes also said 
he was defaulted on loan and credit card payments due to not being able to access the 
money in his account. Overall, hes said that the restriction caused him stress and anxiety. 
So, he says the compensation offered isnt enough to reflect the amount of trouble, financial 
loss and upset hes suffered. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about how Revoluts actions impacted him. Ive noted 
that despite being asked to provide evidence to support the impact he says Revoluts actions 
had on him, regarding his loan and credit card accounts being defaulted he hasnt done so. 
Mr C also hasnt provided evidence to support his financial losses  the wages he says 
missed out on earning. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Revolut to pay financial loss or 
compensation for something theres no evidence of.  
Revolut have agreed to pay £150 as recommended by the investigator. Mr C says this isnt 
enough. Having considered what Mr C has told us about how Revoluts actions impacted 
him, Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. He needed access to 
money to get to work. And he had to go to the trouble of asking others to lend him money to 
pay for petrol, which I appreciate would have been awkward and embarrassing for him. He 
also spent time contacting Revolut trying to find out what was happening with his account 
and how long it would take for the review to be completed.  Revolut has accepted it should 
have allowed done things quicker. And I agree. I say this because Mr C provided Revolut 
with the information it requested quickly. I havent seen that Revolut needed anything more 
from Mr C. So, its not clear to me why it took Revolut as long as it did to complete its review. From looking at the in app chat conversation between Mr C and Revolut, I can also see that 
Mr C made it very clear he had no access to any other funds and how the block was 
impacting him. He asked Revolut to prioritise what it was doing on more than one occasion 
too. I havent seen anything to suggest Revolut reached out to him or acknowledged he 
maybe in a vulnerable position. So, when I weigh everything up, I think Revolut should pay 
Mr C compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused to him by the time taken for it 
to complete its review.
Having looked at all the evidence, while Mr C may disagree with me, Im satisfied that £150 
is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr C was 
caused in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be directing Revolut to pay 
any more.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Revolut Ltd should 
pay Mr C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for Revolut 
to complete its review of Mr Cs account and release his funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman