DRN-3979976
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about a leak she said British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
caused when it carried out work under her home emergency policy.
What happened
British Gas sent an engineer to Mrs As home to deal with a leak outside her home. While he 
was there, the engineer knocked a valve which caused a leak inside Mrs As home that 
couldnt be stopped. Over a couple of weeks, further engineers visited to try and deal with 
the issue, but didnt resolve it. Mrs A arranged for her own engineer to replace the cylinder. 
Mrs A complained to British Gas. It offered Mrs A £1,400 for the third party costs shed paid 
for a new cylinder and £50 compensation. Mrs A complained to this service because she 
said her costs had been about £3,000. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
£1,400 was only part of the cost. As Mrs A had paid a total of £3,272.19, our investigator 
said British Gas should pay the full amount. She also said British Gas should pay a total of 
£250 compensation.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
British Gas offered Mrs A £1,400 to cover the cost of a third party carrying out repairs at her 
home following damage caused by one of its engineers. Ive looked at the invoices for the 
cylinder replacement. A cylinder was provided by one company at a cost of £1,592.19 and a 
different company fitted it at a cost of £1,680, once VAT was included. This is a total of 
£3,272.19. British Gas told this service that it offered £1,400 to cover the cost of the third 
party. It said Mrs A had said the costs were £3,000, but she had received a discount. From 
what I can see, I think there was a misunderstanding about the costs and British Gas based 
its offer on the amount to fit the cylinder only. Mrs A did initially seem to receive a discount 
on the fitting. However, she later had to pay the VAT element, which increased that cost. I 
havent seen anything that persuades me British Gas only intended to pay part of the costs 
when it made its offer or why that would have been the case.
British Gas later told this service it shouldnt have offered Mrs A £1,400 because all that 
needed to be replaced was a TPRV, which would have cost about £100. So, Ive thought 
about this. Mrs A has said the engineer told her she would need a new cylinder. British Gas 
told this service its engineer wouldnt have given that advice, as that wasnt what was 
required. Ive looked at the engineer notes. For the first visit, when the engineer caused the 
damage, the notes said a TPRV needed to be ordered to complete the job. At the fourth visit, 
the engineers note said: Trv needs replace cylinder needs to come complain. Although I 
dont think it is the clearest note, I think it is reasonable to read it as the engineer saying the 
cylinder needed to be replaced. So, I think this makes it more likely than not that Mrs A was 
advised by the engineer that she needed a new cylinder. Mrs A then acted on that advice. 
So, I think British Gas needs to pay the costs for the cylinder. From what I can see, when it 
dealt with the complaint, British Gas also thought it needed to pay costs for the cylinder, 
which is why it paid £1,400. Im aware British Gas position has now changed, but Im not 
persuaded by the reasons it has put forward.
British Gas has also said it shouldnt pay the costs for the cylinder because this work 
wouldnt be covered by the terms and conditions of the policy. However, as I think Mrs A was 
told the cylinder needed to be replaced, and this was due to damage caused by its engineer, 
I dont think it is fair for British Gas to limit what it would cover to what was available under 
the standard terms of the policy. It needed to put right the damage it caused. The total cost 
for replacing the cylinder was £3,272.19. So, I think British Gas needs to pay that amount. 
Im aware it has already offered £1,400, which it can deduct from this amount if it has 
already paid it.
Ive also thought about compensation. British Gas accepted that its engineer caused 
damage that led to an uncontrollable leak. Engineers also visited multiple times over a 
couple of weeks, but couldnt fix the issue. Mrs A then had to arrange for a new cylinder to 
be fitted. I think Mrs A was inconvenienced both by the original incident and then in trying to 
get it resolved. Im aware British Gas already offered Mrs A £50 compensation. I think a total 
of £250, which includes that £50, more fairly reflects the impact on Mrs A.
So, having thought about all of the above, I uphold this complaint and require British Gas to 
pay Mrs A in total £3,272.19 for the cylinder and £250 compensation.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mrs A a total of £3,272.19 for the cylinder and £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint and require British Gas to pay Mrs A a 
total of £3,272.19 for the cylinder and a total of £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman