DRN-4233425
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) wont refund money he 
lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons: 
Its not in dispute Mr T was the victim of a scam. And given the cruel circumstances, 
Im not surprised how strongly he feels about getting his money back. But its my role 
to decide whether Barclaycard, as his credit card provider, ought to be held to liable 
for these losses. 
Thats not as simple as saying that because Mr T was scammed, Barclaycard ought 
to refund him. Instead, as an impartial decision maker, I need to be satisfied that 
Barclaycard made a mistake and that caused his losses. 
The starting position is that Barclaycard is expected to make the payments Mr T asks 
it to without undue delay. And where Mr T authorises the payments (as its accepted 
he did here), hes liable for them. 
But thats not the end of the matter. Ive also considered whether Barclaycard ought 
to have realised Mr T was at risk from fraud given the nature of the payments. 
Because if it failed to intervene appropriately when it should have done, it might be 
fair to hold it liable. 
Mr T submits that four relatively high foreign transactions in a month should have 
raised suspicion. But Im not persuaded. The four transactions happened between 
February and April  and in the months leading up to and during the scam, Mr T used 
his card often. So I dont think the frequency of the payments looked particularly 
unusual. 
I also dont think the amounts were alarmingly significant, given that its common for 
someone to make larger payments using their credit card. Indeed, Mr T had used his 
card to make higher purchases before these. 
Its also not clear to me these transactions were in a different currency  instead, it 
seems PayPal might have exchanged the money, and these were charged in 
sterling. But either way, Mr T made several foreign payments before these fraudulent 
payments  so I dont think that looked particularly suspicious either. 
Taking these circumstances into account, I consider it reasonable that Barclaycard 
didnt detect a fraud risk  so simply processed the payments in line with Mr Ts 
instructions.
As well as considering whether Barclaycard ought to have prevented Mr Ts loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. 
When Mr T reported the scam to Barclaycard, which the records show was in May 
2022, I think it should have contacted PayPal to see if any of his money remained. 
But, given that most fraudulent payments are moved immediately, and the scam 
wasnt reported until a while after they happened, I dont think its likely this wouldve 
made a difference to whether Mr T got any money back. 
Ive also reviewed whether Barclaycard couldve done more to recover his money 
through a claim until the chargeback scheme or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. But given these payments were made through PayPal for friends and 
family, I agree there werent reasonable prospects of a claim succeeding and helping 
Mr T get his money back.  
I appreciate this will be hugely disappointing for Mr T. But Im not persuaded 
Barclaycard is at fault for failing to stop, or recover, his losses.
Finally, I recognise Mr Ts frustrations with how Barclaycard handled his fraud claim. 
But ultimately, I think the driving force of this was Barclays continued stance to reject 
his claim, which I dont think was an unfair outcome. So Ive not made an award for 
this. 
Ive also noted Mr Ts concerns with PayPal. But I can only consider Barclaycards 
behaviour in the decision. So this would need to be pursued with PayPal if he 
remains unhappy.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman