DRN-2724566
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to AXA in my decision as the business that sold the PPI.
Mrs M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out with a store card in February 2003. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Mrs M mainly told us that, as far as she was aware, she did not agree to PPI. She said she 
wasnt informed that the PPI was optional and the policy terms and conditions were not 
explained. She also had a medical condition when she took out the policy. 
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold the complaint. He said the 
policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from a condition Mrs M 
already had when she bought the policy and Mrs M had mentioned having a condition at the 
time. So if she needed to claim for this, she wouldn't have been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt it was important that Mrs M had understood this so she could make a 
proper choice about taking out the PPI. But he didn't think that AXA did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear to Mrs M - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think Mrs M 
would've taken the policy out.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  
In summary, AXA said, whilst it accepted that Mrs M had the condition shed mentioned, 
there wasnt anything to show that it affected her ability to work. And AXA didnt believe that 
Mrs Ms medical condition was a good enough reason on its own to say the policy wasnt 
suitable for her.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont feel I've seen enough 
information to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Ms completed store card application. Mrs M has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs M wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs M to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs M also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that 
she must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, 
she has forgotten this now. 
On balance, I think Mrs M was aware the policy was optional and she chose to take it out.
AXA shouldve given Mrs M enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Mrs M was entitled to at least 6 months sick pay from her employer. But this policy couldve 
paid a benefit for as long as Mrs M was off work sick or disabled. So it couldve paid out for 
longer than Mrs M was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared her card balance if 
she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs M with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Mrs M in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So the PPI offered Mrs M significantly better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Based on what shes told us, it looks to me like the policy offered Mrs M useful benefits in 
her particular situation. 
Mrs M told us her medical condition was diagnosed in childhood. So looking at the policy 
wording, its likely that she probably wouldnt have been covered for absence from work due 
to her condition.
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that, when she arranged the PPI, Mrs M had any reason to 
think that her condition was likely to affect her ability to work. I say this because, from what 
shes told us, it doesnt look like Mrs Ms condition has ever kept her off work. 
The policy wouldve still covered absence from work due to accident or any sickness 
unrelated to her condition. So, even if Mrs M had been made aware she mightve been 
caught by one of the policy limitations, I dont think having more information about this 
wouldve made any difference to her decision to take out the cover as shed still have had 
the other benefits the policy offered. 
For these reasons, I dont think its likely that having clearer information about the policys 
limitations and exclusions for an existing medical condition wouldve put Mrs M off taking it 
out. 
So I cant fairly say that shes lost out as a result of paying for the policy. I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs M clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And Mrs M indicated on the application form that she was happy 
to pay to have it. 
Thinking about everything Ive seen and been told, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs M in 
her particular circumstances, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.
On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell AXA that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M. I hope the way Ive set out the reasons will help her 
understand how Ive come to my view.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. Having done so, and as no further 
comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change what 
I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman