DRN-3695204
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) caused her distress 
and inconvenience when it applied a default to her credit card account in 2018.
What happened
Miss M was struggling financially with debt in 2017. She had agreed payment plans with her 
creditors and was paying regular minimum payments. Halifax defaulted her credit card 
account in February 2018 and the account was passed to a third party to continue the 
administration of it. Miss M said the default caused her distress and even more financial 
difficulty, so she arranged a formal debt management plan.
 
She found it difficult to get a mortgage, obtain car finance and to pay all her bills. She says 
this damaged her reputation and affected her mental health. The default remained on her 
credit file until 2022 when Halifax told her the account had been defaulted in error in 2018. 
Miss M feels she has been unfairly treated and wants compensation for four years of 
financial and mental stress caused by the default on her credit file.
Miss M sent us a copy of her credit file which showed she did have other debts and other 
adverse information from 2017. She submitted case law to show that she should get around 
£1,500 as compensation for the distress she has suffered over four years.
Halifax accepted it had defaulted Miss Ms credit account in error. It apologised to her for the 
error, it wrote off the remaining balance of £1,200.26 on the account and it paid her £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Halifax also contacted the credit reference agencies 
to remove the default from Miss Ms credit file. Halifax said it was not solely responsible for 
Miss Ms financial hardship as her credit file shows she had other debts leading up to 2018.
Our investigator said Halifax should increase the compensation to £300 for Miss Ms distress 
and inconvenience from the day she found out the error had been made. Halifax agreed to 
do this.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the compensation which Halifax has agreed to pay is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Miss M will be disappointed by this, but Ill 
explain why I have made this decision.
 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Miss M. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Halifax has admitted it got things wrong when it registered a default on Miss Ms 
credit file. So the only issue I must decide is whether Halifaxs offer to put things right is fair 
and reasonable. 
I think its right that Halifax should compensate Miss M for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Theres a number of factors here that Ive taken into 
consideration when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. Ill 
start by saying that I can understand why Miss M was upset when she found out there was a 
default incorrectly recorded on her credit file. I think its important to add though, that while 
the error itself occurred in 2018  when Halifax registered the default  it wasnt until 2022 
that Miss M found out about the error. So I cant say the default error would have worried 
Miss M prior to 2022, as she wasnt yet aware of the issue. From the point Miss M found out, 
I accept this caused shock and worry for Miss M to know that Halifax had inadvertently 
applied a default to her account from 2018.
 
I can see Halifax has taken steps to remove the default from Miss Ms credit file. I think its 
important theyve done this as it puts Miss M back in the position she would have been in 
had the error not occurred, and in this case, that means a credit file showing no default 
against this account. It also ensures the impact of the error doesnt continue. 
Taking this all into account, I think the compensation of £300 which Halifax has offered to 
pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Miss M says she suffered 
financial hardship due to the default. Ive looked into this, but Im not persuaded Miss Ms 
financial hardship was solely caused by Halifax. I say this because I have seen a copy of 
Miss Ms credit file which shows she had other adverse information on her file from 2018 and 
other borrowing. So I cant say the default would have been the only factor taken into 
account by potential lenders. Lenders will have their own lending criteria and will consider a 
range of factors when deciding the terms on which they agree to lend to a customer and 
ultimately this is a commercial decision.
 
Miss M has referred to case law to support her argument for more compensation. However, 
the case referred to the credit file incorrectly showing that money was owed. In Miss Ms 
complaint, she did owe money to Halifax on the credit card account  it was just that Halifax 
decided in 2022 they should not have registered the default and could have arranged for 
Miss M to pay the debt off in a different way. I also noted that as Halifax had written off the 
outstanding balance of the credit card debt, Miss M has already received the benefit of a 
higher level of compensation.
Putting things right
Halifax has done something wrong and I think it should put things right. Having looked at all 
the circumstances, I agree with Halifaxs offer to settle the complaint for the total sum of 
£300, taking into account any money already paid to Miss M in relation to this complaint. I 
think this is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has made an offer to settle this complaint 
which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Miss M the sum of £300 taking into account any money 
already paid as compensation in relation to this complaint and clear her credit file of the 
default it recorded (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Amrit MangraOmbudsman