DRN-2381398
The complaint
Mr C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C is the beneficiary of a property owners commercial legal expenses policy held by his 
employer. He was charged with an animal cruelty offence while at work on 4 July 2018, as 
his dog had been left in the back of his parked vehicle and had reportedly grown distressed. 
The case was marked for prosecution by the Procurator Fiscal. Mr C notified his employer, 
and a claim was subsequently made under the legal expenses policy, which covered 
criminal prosecution defence for prosecutions arising out the business. However, Allianz 
declined the claim in October 2018 as they said Mr C was being prosecuted personally in 
relation to the alleged offence, which did not arise out of the business. They also cited a 
further exclusion (exclusion 18) which stated there was no cover for claims arising out of a 
deliberate, conscious, intentional or reckless act by the Insured Person.
Mr C reverted back to his employer after the claim had been declined, asking that they 
challenge Allianzs decision. His employer consulted with its legal department and concluded 
that it was in no way responsible for the incident, and Mr Cs employment was ultimately 
terminated in February 2019.
Mr C was subsequently acquitted of all charges in August 2019. He complained to Allianz 
because he believed the claim had been wrongly declined, as well as mishandled. He said 
that the prosecution did arise out of the business as he had been instructed by his employer 
to use his vehicle (where the dog was kept that day), such that his employer could even be 
considered vicariously liable. Mr C also said that Allianz had negligently cited exclusion 18 
as a reason for declining his claim, which the insurer has since acknowledged was 
irrelevant. He says that it was Allianzs reliance on this policy term that ultimately led to his 
employment being terminated three months after the claim was declined. As a result, he 
says they should pay his legal costs as well as compensation for mishandling the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She was satisfied it had been declined fairly 
and didnt think the prosecution could be said to have arisen out of the employers business. 
The investigator also didnt think it was unreasonable for Allianz to have initially considered 
exclusion 18 in the circumstances of the claim. Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions state that the insurer will cover:
3. Criminal Prosecution Defence
The insured person has cover for the defence of a criminal prosecution. Provided that 
the criminal prosecution arises out of the Business.
Mr C was not required to bring his dog to work or leave it in his car as part of his 
employment duties and neither was he specifically instructed to do so by his employer. So, 
any prosecution or legal action that resulted from his taking his dog to work cannot 
reasonably be regarded as arising out of the business in these circumstances. In my 
judgment, the prosecution arose because, for personal reasons, Mr C was compelled to take 
his dog to work that day as he felt he could not leave her at home. 
I appreciate that Mr C was asked by his employer to use his own vehicle to carry out his 
employment duties that day. But this duty did not extend to transporting his dog in the 
vehicle as part of his job. And the mere fact that his employer knew of the arrangement does 
not, in my opinion, render it as something arising out of the business either.
Mr C submits that his employer ought to have been held vicariously liable. But no such 
action was pursued against the employer, only Mr C personally. And in order for an 
employer to be held vicariously liable for the acts/omissions of its employee, it would have to 
be shown that the wrongful conduct was so closely connected to the acts the employee was 
authorised to do that it could fairly and properly be regarded as carried out while acting in the 
ordinary course of employment. In these circumstances, I dont consider that Mr C leaving 
the dog in the back of his vehicle was so closely connected to his duties such that it could be 
said to have been carried out in the ordinary course of his employment. So it seems highly 
unlikely that his employer could be held vicariously liable for the alleged offence and neither 
were they pursued by the authorities in this regard. Therefore, Im satisfied that Allianz acted 
fairly when they declined Mr Cs claim on the basis of the prosecution not arising out of the 
business, but out of his personal circumstances.
Mr C further submits that Allianz were negligent in citing exclusion 18 as a valid reason for 
declining his claim as its very mention implied that he was guilty of the offence for which hed 
been charged and led to the termination of his employment. He said he had provided 
evidence to the insurer which demonstrated his innocence, such that they ought not to have 
considered the exclusion in the first place. 
Allianz have since agreed that exclusion 18 would not apply to the circumstances of Mr Cs 
claim. And I appreciate they may have perhaps been a bit quick to reference this exclusion 
as one of the reasons for declining the claim in light of the circumstances Mr C had 
explained. But it still has no bearing on the outcome of his claim, as I consider it was still 
correctly declined on the basis of there being no insured event (i.e. no criminal prosecution 
arising out of the business). 
I understand Mr C found Allianzs reference to exclusion 18 upsetting, but an insurer is 
entitled to test a claim against all the relevant criteria set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. It may be that numerous exclusions apply to a given claim, so it is not negligent 
for an insurer to consider alternative exclusions even after concluding that the claim is not 
covered. In the circumstances of Mr Cs claim  given that there was an impending 
prosecution for the alleged reckless behaviour of leaving his dog in the back of a hot vehicle 
 I dont consider it unreasonable for Allianz to have initially contemplated exclusion 18 as a 
reason for declining the claim. Mr C says he gave the insurer evidence which vindicated him 
of any crime. But the matter of his guilt in the alleged crime is not something Allianz can 
determine. Even with the strongest exculpatory evidence, they still wouldnt be in a position 
to determine that he was not guilty, for example, as this can only be decided by the court. And neither do I think the insurer has implied Mr Cs guilt by referencing the term either. 
Instead, it seems that Allianzs contemplation of the exclusion was simply based on the 
allegations made and prosecution sought by the authorities, rather than any assumptions 
made of his guilt.
Mr C says that the insurers reference to exclusion 18 ultimately led to the termination of his 
employment. However, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that the insurers 
actions were the proximate cause of his contract being terminated, as opposed to anything 
Mr C had done himself. He asked his employer to get involved after the claim was declined, 
which led to it consulting with its legal team. But theres nothing to suggest this was as a 
direct result of the insurer referencing exclusion 18 in its claim response, or that this was the 
primary reason why the employer decided to terminate his contract. So I do not think Allianz 
can fairly be held responsible for Mr Cs loss of employment, particularly as this also came 
some three months after the claim was declined by the insurer, which further demonstrates a 
lack of correlation between the two events.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I do not consider Allianz to have 
done anything substantially wrong in their handling of his claim. So I will not be directing 
them to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman