DRN-3289468
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and 
the fee theyre charging her following a successful Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim 
which she doesnt think they were authorised to pursue.
Mrs G has been represented by her daughter during the complaint process. I will refer to any 
comments Mrs Gs daughter has made as if they were made by Mrs G herself for ease of 
reference throughout the decision.
What happened
In early August 2019, Mrs G submitted an online enquiry to QFL, asking them to complete a 
free PPI check on her behalf with lender B. QFL issued Mrs G with a claims pack and on 17 
August, Mrs G signed the letter of authority (LOA) within this, authorising QFL to submit this 
check on her behalf. Mrs G says she did so on the understanding QFL would give her the 
option to pursue a claim herself if PPI was identified.
Mrs G says she heard nothing further from QFL, so she assumed no PPI had been found. 
But in August 2020, Mrs G received a post-tax refund of £5,619 from lender B. Mrs G says 
she tried to call lender B to discuss this, but the line became disconnected. So, she didnt 
dispute the receipt of the funds any further.
On 9 August 2021, QFL invoiced Mrs G for their fee of £1,536.37 which was calculated on 
the pre-tax refund lender B provided Mrs G in August 2020. Mrs G was unhappy about this, 
so she raised a complaint.
Mrs G didnt think shed authorised QFL to submit a claim to lender B on her behalf. So, she 
didnt think their fee should be payable. Mrs G was also unhappy that shed heard nothing 
from QFL since she asked them to submit a free PPI check, so she didnt think it was fair for 
an invoice to be raised so long after the claim was successful. Because of this, she wanted 
QFL to waive the outstanding fee and stop any further contact with her. 
QFL didnt agree. They thought they had submitted the claim that led to the successful 
refund. And so, they thought they were fair to charge their fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions Mrs G agreed to. They also thought theyd made reasonable attempts to contact 
Mrs G and had issued an invoice when theyd been made aware of the refund by lender B. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs G remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. While she didnt dispute Mrs 
Gs belief she was only signing up for a free PPI check, she thought the terms and 
conditions Mrs G agreed to when she signed the LOA made it reasonably clear QFL would 
continue with the claim if PPI was identified. So, she didnt think QFL had acted unfairly 
when doing so. And she explained shed seen evidence to show QFL had e-mailed and text 
Mrs G on several occasions explaining PPI had been found. She acknowledged Mrs Gs 
testimony these hadnt been received, but she explained she was satisfied theyd been sent. 
So, as she thought the refund resulted from the claim QFL submitted and that QFL had 
authority to take this action, she thought QFL were fair to charge a fee in line with the terms 
and conditions. But she noted it had been some time since Mrs G received the refund, so 
she explained shed expect QFL to act fairly towards Mrs G and agree an affordable 
repayment plan.
Mrs G didnt agree. She didnt think the terms and conditions she saw made it clear QFL 
would continue with the claim. So, she suggested QFL had provided a falsified LOA. And 
she thought the claim was successful due to a PPI questionnaire QFL provided to lender B, 
which Mrs G didnt sign or authorise them to send. Mrs G also referred to information she 
received from lender B directly and she thought QFL had sent e-mails confirming there was 
PPI on the account before lender B had confirmed this. So, because of all the above, Mrs G 
didnt think QFL had acted fairly, with her authorisation, when pursuing the claim. So, she 
maintained her belief the fee should be waived. 
Our investigator responded to Mrs Gs comments but explained her view remained the 
same. Mrs G didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs G. I dont dispute Mrs Gs 
belief that she had instructed QFL to complete a free PPI check only. And I dont dispute Mrs 
Gs testimony that she didnt receive notification that PPI had been found from QFL. So, I 
can understand why Mrs G wouldnt necessarily assume the refund she received from lender 
B relating to her PPI claim, as she says she didnt receive lender Bs offer letter. Because of 
this, I can appreciate the shock and upset Mrs G wouldve felt when she received an invoice 
from QFL around a year after she received the refund, asking for their fee to be paid. And 
so, I can understand why Mrs G would dispute this.
But for me to say the fee should be waived, Id need to be satisfied of one of two things. 
Either, that QFL completed no work of value on the claim. Or, if I think they did, that they 
didnt have authorisation for them to complete this work. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether QFL had the relevant authority to pursue Mrs Gs claim. Mrs 
G says she instructed them to complete a free PPI check only. And as she didnt provide 
QFL with her approval to submit a full claim, she didnt think QFL should be able to charge 
her a fee.
But Ive seen the LOA Mrs G signed in August 2019, which she doesnt dispute. And this 
LOA explains that by signing it, Mrs G agreed to the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
The terms and conditions explain under the heading Claims Service that If no PPI is 
identified, this agreement will come to an end, but this agreement will continue on any 
accounts where a company confirms you had PPI. The terms then go onto explain Once 
PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends, and you authorise {QFL} to continue to 
provide you with the claims services.
So, by signing the LOA, I think Mrs G provided QFL with her authority to pursue a full claim for mis-sold PPI if any was identified. Because of this, Im unable to say QFL acted unfairly 
when they submitted a full PPI claim on Mrs Gs behalf.
Im aware Mrs G wont agree with this. And I recognise Mrs G has concerns with the terms 
and conditions QFL have provided as she feels they are different to the ones she saw when 
she signed the LOA. But if I was to decide that was the case, I would ultimately be deciding 
that QFL have acted fraudulently. And I have no evidence to substantiate that allegation. 
When our service is provided with information by either party, we assume the information 
thats been provided is accurate and genuine, unless we have substantial evidence that 
satisfies us otherwise. So, Im satisfied the terms and conditions Ive seen are the same set 
that Mrs G wouldve seen when she signed the LOA.
As I think QFL were authorised to submit a full PPI claim on Mrs Gs behalf, Ive then thought 
about whether the work they completed was of value to the successful claim.
I can see QFL submitted a full claim to lender B on 2 July 2020. And I can see following this, 
lender B issued their offer letter on 28 July, with copies being sent to both Mrs G and QFL. 
And in both letters, lender B include QFLs claim reference number. 
Mrs G hasnt said she attempted to submit a claim to lender B herself. Or that she had any 
direct contact with lender B before she received the PPI refund. So, because of the above, 
Im satisfied that it was QFLs submission that led to the refund provided by lender B. And 
because of this, I think QFL are entitled to invoice Mrs G for their fee, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement.
The terms and conditions state Where a claim is successful {QFL} will charge a contingency 
fee of 24% inc. VAT in respect of any redress/compensation/goodwill payment recover on 
your behalf before explaining that the fee will be calculated before any tax deductions. And 
the fee QFL have invoiced falls in line with this. So, Im unable to say the fee QFL have 
charged is unfair.
Again, I appreciate Mrs G wont agree with this. And I recognise she received the invoice a 
significant amount of time after she received the refund and has questioned why this was. 
But QFL have explained they didnt receive the offer letter sent by lender B in July 2020. And 
I think its reasonable for me to believe this, as Mrs G herself has said she failed to receive 
the same offer letter that was sent at the same time. So, based on the balance of probability, 
I think its most likely there was an issue when lender B sent these letters. And I cant say 
this is the fault of QFL.
I can see they received notification of the award on 9 August 2021, and their system notes 
show they received no notification of the refund being paid to Mrs G before this date. So, I 
dont think the delay in invoicing Mrs G was a result of anything QFL did wrong. 
And I recognise Mrs Gs concern about QFL submitting a PPI questionnaire that she didnt 
see, or sign. But I can see the questionnaire was sent without a signature, so QFL havent 
fabricated Mrs Gs authorisation of this documentation. If lender B chose to use the 
information within this to uphold the claim, this was lender Bs decision. And in any event, 
lender B upheld the claim and Mrs G has accepted the refund that was provided. So, I dont 
think the use of this questionnaire should be that QFL arent entitled to the fee they are 
charging, as Mrs G has benefited from the submission they made.
Finally, Ive thought about Mrs Gs concerns regarding QFLs failure to notify her that PPI 
had been identified. And her belief that QFL have again fraudulently presented e-mails they 
couldnt have sent, as this was before lender B stated there was PPI. But Im aware Mrs G 
has received two of the e-mails QFL sent. And the time of these e-mails being sent on QFLs system correlate with the time Mrs G received them into her junk inbox. As all emails were 
sent to the same e-mail address, I think its reasonable for me to assume all these e-mails 
were sent by QFL and that any issue with the receipt wouldve been something out of their 
control.
And in answer to Mrs Gs concerns about when QFL wouldve know there was PPI, I can 
see from the screenshot of lender Bs system that Mrs G have provided that they received 
the Data Subject Access Request associated with the free PPI check on 18 February 2020. 
This is when lender B processed the check, and its likely this wouldve taken time due to the 
volume of claims they wouldve received in August 2019 due to the PPI deadline. I can see 
QFL sent Mrs G the first e-mail stating PPI had been identified on 24 February 2020, which 
is after the date lender B processed the PPI check. So, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume QFL were made aware of the PPI being present on the account and that the e-mails 
werent fabricated but genuinely sent in good faith.
Because of the above, I dont think QFL have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this instance 
and so, I dont think they need to do anything more. But I would expect QFL to act positively 
and sympathetically to Mrs Gs financial situation, considering the length of time between the 
refund being received and their invoice being issued. So, Id expect them to work with Mrs G 
to mutually agree an affordable and reasonable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman