DRN-2534384
The complaint
Mr D complains about the sale of two income protection policies taken out with Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV). Hes also unhappy about the commission paid to his 
IFA by LV. Finally, he thinks LV failed to take into account his employment status when 
setting up the policies.
What happened
In 1988 and 1989, Mr D took out two income protection policies through his IFA. The policies 
were underwritten by a company that LV has since taken over (for ease, Ill only refer to LV 
throughout this decision). 
Mr D complained to LV about the sale of the policies. LV explained that the policies were 
sold by an IFA, and therefore any complaint about the sales should be directed to the IFA. 
LV said that, although Mr Ds policy schedule didnt show his employment status, his IFA has 
told it that he was self-employed. And that his employment status was only relevant in 
respect of the information that would be requested at the point of claim.
Mr D asked LV how much commission had been paid to his IFA for arranging the sales, as 
he was concerned his premiums were significantly higher as a result. LV explained to him 
that it no longer held a record of this information. 
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr D brought a complaint to this service. He thought his 
concerns about the commission would fall under the Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance 
Limited judgment.
Our investigator concluded that the principles established in the Plevin judgement wouldnt 
apply, because the policies werent sold alongside a credit agreement. And as LV no longer 
held any details of the commission paid, she didnt uphold this aspect of his complaint. The 
investigator also confirmed that we couldnt look into the sale of the policies as they were 
sold by an IFA. Finally, the investigator was satisfied that LV had been aware of Mr Ds 
employment status.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has set out in some detail the principles established in the Plevin 
judgement, so I wont repeat these here. However, I agree with her that the principles cant 
be said to apply in Mr Ds case, because the policies werent taken out alongside a credit 
agreement. 
Weve asked LV to check any information it holds to establish what commission was paid to 
the IFA, but LV no longer has this information. Though thats not surprising, given how long 
ago the policies were taken out. 
I therefore dont uphold Mr Ds concerns about the level of commission paid to the IFA, as 
we dont know how much commission was paid.
Mr D has also complained about the sale of the policies. However, as our investigator has 
explained, the policies were sold by an IFA. Therefore, LV isnt responsible for the sales. I 
understand Mr D now accepts this and has been in contact with the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the matter, as the IFA is no longer trading.
Finally, Mr D raised concerns about his employment status. He thinks his IFA told LV that he 
was self-employed, but LV didnt take this into account. LV has confirmed it was aware that 
Mr D was self-employed, and that self-employed people were eligible to take out the policies 
(this is evidenced by the fact that Mr D has previously made a successful claim under the 
cover). It says his employment status wasnt included in the policy schedule, as it was only 
relevant in terms of the information requested at the time of claim. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation. Though as the investigator has explained, it was the IFAs responsibility to 
determine the suitability of the policies for Mr D, not LVs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman