DRN-4323892
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In late 2020, Mr B received a cold call from an alleged investment company (E) and started 
trading with them. Unfortunately, E were a scam. Mr B says they used remote access to 
assist with the payments. He made a series of payments to two different cryptocurrency 
wallets (with L and X) that I understand were set up in his name, in order to purchase 
cryptocurrency to send on to the scam platform. In total, he lost over £18,000.
Mr B says he realised E were a scam when he asked to make a large withdrawal from the 
platform, which was showing substantial profits, and he was ordered to pay more for taxes.
In early 2022, Mr B contacted Halifax about the scam. He said that, as he had fallen victim to 
a previous scam, it should have done more to protect him  and so should refund him for his 
loss. Halifax didnt agree so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr B was liable for the payments he 
had authorised. They didnt think the payments looked concerning enough to have warranted 
further intervention by the bank at the time, and also pointed out that Mr B had told us (and 
Halifax) that he had concerns. So they werent convinced a further warning from the bank 
would have stopped his loss. For those payments made by card, they said a chargeback 
claim couldnt be raised as Mr B raised his dispute outside the relevant time limits.
Mr B appealed the investigators findings. He said he didnt continue paying when he 
realised it was a scam. And he thought it should have looked suspicious that he paid such a 
large amount over a small period of time when he hadnt before. He also disputed that he 
had contacted Halifax too late for a chargeback claim.
The case was passed to me. I let Mr B know I agreed with the investigator that a chargeback 
claim would not have succeeded  not only because of the time limits, but also because the 
funds were paid directly to legitimate merchants. I also asked him about a (relatively) small 
credit received from L during the scam, and he explained this was an inducement from the 
scammers to invest more.
Earlier in August 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was minded to direct 
Halifax to refund some, but not all, of Mr Bs loss. Halifax responded to accept my findings. 
Mr B hasnt responded by the deadline I set. And so Im now proceeding to finalise my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Without anything further to consider in response to my provisional findings, I see no reason 
to depart from them. And so, for the following reasons, Im upholding this complaint:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Mr B was 
scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the starting position is 
that hes liable for them.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If 
Halifax failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Looking at Mr Bs account use, he didnt have a history of making high value payments. 
There were a few over £500, but these were few and far between. And he had no history of 
cryptocurrency payments.
Then on the first day of the scam, Mr B paid almost £1,700, over two payments, to a new 
cryptocurrency payee (X). Followed by a further £4,700 the next day over three payments; 
two to X, and one to another new cryptocurrency payee (L). So, in the course of two days, 
having no prior cryptocurrency payments, hed paid two new cryptocurrency payees around 
£6,400. And he went on to make two further cryptocurrency payments the next day which 
brought the cryptocurrency payments up to almost £11,000 in three days. There were further 
payments made, over a two week period.
I appreciate why the payments didnt immediately flag as suspicious. But by the time of the 
third payment on day two (the fifth payment overall), for £3,000, I think Halifax ought to have 
been concerned that Mr B might be at risk.
There is no indication Mr B was coached by the scammers. So Ive no reason to doubt he 
would have answered honestly if questioned about the payments. And I think it would have 
been clear to Halifax that he was being scammed. He had been cold called by the company, 
who directed him to download remote access software so they could complete trades. The 
amount he thought he was making, according to the trading platform, sounded suspiciously 
high. He also says he thought the company were offering stocks and shares trading, so 
would have been concerned to learn the payments involved cryptocurrency. I therefore think 
Halifax would have succeeded in uncovering the scam and preventing further losses.
However, Ive also considered whether Mr B should hold some liability for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence. As he has told us that he had some concerns. While he has gone 
so far as to say he realised it was a scam, this was in relation to him continuing to engage 
with E after the payments were made, in the hopes of recovering some funds.Mr Bs testimony still persuades me he had, or ought to have had, some reservations. For 
example, he says he didnt realise the payments related to cryptocurrency. But that should 
have been apparent from the payees  which I would have expected him to check as part of 
his due diligence when making such a large investment. So I think he missed some warning 
signs. Equally, I think Halifax would have uncovered the scam if it had intervened in 
response to the change in how the account was being operated. In the circumstances, Ive 
concluded it would be fair for Halifax to refund 50% of Mr Bs fraudulent loss from payment 
five onwards.
For those payments which Ive not found Halifax should have prevented, Ive considered 
whether it could have done more to recover Mr Bs loss. Some were made by faster 
payments. Halifax wouldnt have been able to recover these from the recipient accounts  as 
those were Mr Bs own accounts with L and X, and we know the funds had already been 
moved on to the scam.
For the card payments, they are covered by VISAs voluntary chargeback scheme. VISA, as 
the card scheme provider, sets the rules for any chargeback claims. The earliest record I 
have of Mr B contacting Halifax about his dispute is January 2022  which would have been 
out of time to claim, given the payment dates and when things went wrong.
Regardless, the scheme would only look at any failings by the merchants paid directly  in 
this case L and X. They provided the expected service by loading the funds to the wallets in 
line with Mr Bs requests; the underlying dispute is about the scammers who the funds were 
transferred on to. And that is outside the scope of a chargeback claim. So even if Mr B had 
contacted Halifax in time, there wouldnt have been prospects for successful chargeback 
claims.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to refund 50% of the funds Mr B lost to the scam, via his Halifax account, from 
the fifth scam payment (£3,000 paid to X on 30 December 2020) onwards. 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the dates 
of payment to the date of settlement. If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Bank of Scotland plc must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr B accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman