DRN-4024402
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein 
AG (HSV) declined her accidental damage claim under her furniture warranty.
What happened
Mrs R took out a five-year insurance policy to cover accidental damage and staining when 
she bought new sofas in November 2020. In August 2022, she raised a claim for accidental 
damage to the back cushion of one sofa. Mrs R reported that it, looks like it has been 
caught on seam.
HSV sent a technician to assess the damage. The technician reported, The overall fabric 
condition and faded pattern shows this has [occurred] through wear and tear during use not 
single incident.
In light of the technicians report, HSV declined Mrs Rs claim because the damage was 
caused by wear and tear rather than a one-off incident.
Mrs R didnt agree with HSVs decision, so she complained. She said the fabric ripped when 
someone caught the sofa with their keys as they sat down. HSV reconsidered the claim, but 
its technician didnt think the damage was caused by a one-off incident. HSV confirmed its 
decision to decline the claim, so Mrs R brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint because she didnt think HSV had provided 
sufficient evidence to show that the damage was due to wear and tear rather than a one-off 
incident.
Because HSV didnt respond to our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs Rs policy provides cover for accidental damage which is defined as:
The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product subject to the exclusions listed 
under Section 5 What is not Covered.
Amongst other things, the policy describes a rip or tear as accidental damage.
The policy excludes cover for:
2 Any damage resulting from wear and tear
Mrs Rs sofa is clearly damaged, and she says it was the result of a one-off incident. For 
HSV to decline her claim, it must show why the damage isnt covered under the policy. So, 
Ive looked at the evidence to decide whether HSV has done enough to show that it was 
reasonable to decline the claim in the circumstances.
HSV declined the claim saying the damage was due to wear and tear but, looking at 
the photos of Mrs Rs sofa, I cant see any evidence of the wear and tear HSV 
describes. 
HSV said Mrs R only confirmed keys had caused the damage when it declined the 
claim. Looking at the online claim form, I note Mrs R described the damage rather 
than the incident. So, I dont think its fair to rely on that first notification as a full 
picture of events.
When HSV questioned Mrs R further about the damage, she said it was caused 
accidentally when someone sat down and caught the back cushion. Later, she said it 
was keys in their pocket which caught on the fabric, but no one had wanted to admit 
to causing the tear. Im satisfied thats a plausible explanation.
The technician didnt think the tear was consistent with accidental damage. While its 
not HSVs responsibility to say what did cause the damage, it is responsible for 
demonstrating why the policy doesnt provide cover. I dont find the technicians 
report persuasive on this issue - I dont feel this has been caused by keys and looks 
really old damage dont really no (sic) what has caused it.
The sofa was less than two years old so its unreasonable to conclude that the 
damage is really old. And in the absence of any clear evidence of wear and tear, I 
cant fairly say the damage is more likely to be due to day-to-day use rather than a 
one-off incident.
The damage itself is a small horizontal rough-edged split or hole, with a longer 
vertical split running from the hole along the edge of the seam. If the split was just at 
the seam I could understand why HSV declined the claim for wear and tear, but that 
doesnt explain the hole at the top of the split.
In light of the evidence, I dont think HSV has done enough to show that the policy exclusion 
for wear and tear applies here. Therefore, I think its reasonable for HSV to reconsider Mrs 
Rs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and 
Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG must:
reconsider Mrs Rs claim for accidental damage to her sofa under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman