DRN-3071112
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for an annual multi trip insurance policy.
Any reference to Great Lakes also includes its agents.
What happened
On 11 January 2020, Mr and Mrs B took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to 
cover trips taken worldwide. The policy was provided by Great Lakes. This cover started on 
11 January 2020 and ran until 10 January 2021. The policy also provided cover for Mr Bs 
pre-existing medical conditions. In total, they paid £545.65 for their insurance cover.
Because of the global pandemic, Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cancelled and on 29 August 2020, 
they contacted Great Lakes to request an extension to the cover dates. Great Lakes said it 
couldnt extend the policy, but Mr and Mrs B could cancel the cover. It said that as it was 
more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, Mr and Mrs B were not entitled to a 
refund of the premium, but it did agree, as a gesture of goodwill, to provide a 15% refund 
which was £81.85.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr and Mrs B complained to Great Lakes. They told Great Lakes 
that they had initially contacted the broker on 3 April 2020 about this but hadnt been given 
the correct information. Great Lakes agreed to backdate the cancellation of the policy to April 
and increased the offer to £272.83  which represented a 50% refund of the premium.
Mr and Mrs B initially accepted this offer, but then felt they should be entitled to a pro-rata 
refund of the premium rather than just 50%, after they saw some media coverage on this 
issue. 
The complaint was brought to our service and an investigator looked into the matter. She 
found that the 50% refund offer made to Mr and Mrs B was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and, as no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
Please tell Us immediately if Your Policy does not meet Your requirements. If You 
cancel within 14 days of the receipt of Your documentation and You have not started 
a trip or made or intend to make a claim, We will give You a full refund. Following this 
14 day period, You continue to have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by 
contacting Us.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside of the 14 day cooling-off period no 
premium will be refunded. However, discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to Your Policy resulting in Us 
declining to cover Your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr and Mrs Bs 
cooling-off period ended on 25 January 2020. But the first contact with the broker about this 
issue wasnt until April. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-
off period. 
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting 
a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover.
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs B purchased, 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums.
Having said that, I do understand that Mr and Mrs Bs need for this policy changed due to 
circumstances out of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of 
the policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding 
Covid-19. 
As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started 
on 11 January 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B did have insurance from 11 January 2020, for travelling on any number of trips 
that they may have taken, until they agreed to cancel the policy. Great Lakes has no way of 
knowing how many trips had been taken during that time. There may have been a large 
number of trips  or none. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs B were able to travel in February 
2020. But, regardless of the number of trips taken, Great Lakes was covering the risk of a 
claim during the time the policy was in force. The policy would have covered any holidays 
Mr and Mrs B needed to cancel, because of specific events in the policy, such as if either of 
them had fallen ill. 
As our investigator has said, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair 
for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. 
But, after Mr and Mrs B cancelled their insurance policy, due to the impact of Covid-19, 
Great Lakes wasnt bearing any risk under the insurance policy for upcoming holidays  their holidays were cancelled, and there wasnt any claim being made for cancellation. There also 
wasnt any risk of a holiday being cancelled for any other reason or any possibility of 
Mr and Mrs B making a claim whilst they were away on holiday. So Great Lakes no longer 
carried any risk of a successful claim being made. After the policy was cancelled, Great 
Lakes was not providing cancellation cover for any other holidays Mr and Mrs B might have 
had booked, or for any travelling that Mr and Mrs B might have done, whether abroad or in 
the UK.
 
Mr and Mrs B have said they should receive a pro-rata refund of the premium, essentially 
providing them with a refund of approximately 75% of the amount paid  as Great Lakes 
were only on risk for about three months (until April 2020 when they first made contact about 
the policy). But Great Lakes has said that, in its claims experience, it receives varying 
percentages of claims across different months of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
This means that the risk of a claim is not spread evenly across the year.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied Great Lakes has demonstrated theres 
a material unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B have referred to media coverage from last year regarding pro-rata refunds, 
and this is why they think they should receive a higher payment. I can appreciate their 
comments, but it is important to point out that complaints are considered on their own 
individual merits, based on the specific circumstances of that case. The complaint made to 
this service relates to the refund of premium of the policy that Mr and Mrs B held with Great 
Lakes and, based on the information and evidence supplied in support of this complaint, I 
think Great Lakes has acted fairly when reaching this offer.  
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer which Great Lakes has made refund 50% of the 
premium, which amounts to £272.83, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont 
be asking Great Lakes to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman