DRN-3512887
The complaint
Miss D complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) used her pension fund to 
purchase an annuity without her permission.
What happened
Miss D joined her previous employers Group Personal Pension Plan in 2002 (initially 
provided by Friends Provident but now Aviva - who Ill refer to throughout this decision). She 
was made redundant in December 2004, with no further contributions made to the policy. 
Some years later, in March 2009, Miss D was made redundant from a subsequent employer, 
a local borough council. Shed worked for this employer for just over three years, also 
accruing benefits in that employers (separate) pension scheme with another provider. 
On 2 June 2009, Aviva sent Miss D an early retirement illustration. The value of the policy 
was £4,334.37. This illustration listed two options  the first the purchase of an annuity 
paying a pension of £191.40 a year (before tax), and the second a tax-free cash sum of 
£1,066.81 plus an annuity paying a reduced pension of £142.32 a year (before tax). 
Completed forms were returned to Aviva, signed and dated 9 June 2009. The second option 
had been chosen (the amounts eventually paid were marginally greater than the above 
numbers - £1,083.59 and £144.60 per year, paid monthly). 
Miss D says shed always believed the payments she was receiving were pension payments 
from her (later) local council employer, and it was only in 2017 when she realised this wasnt 
the case. She had no recollection of signing any paperwork to ask for an annuity to be 
purchased, and suspected it may have been a financial advisor connected to her previous 
(council) employer whod asked for the pension to be paid without her permission. 
So, Miss D complained to Aviva. She thought Aviva shouldnt have allowed the annuity to be 
purchased without her permission, and asked Aviva for an explanation how this had 
happened, and for her pension to be reinstated or refunded.  
But Aviva were satisfied Miss D had signed the necessary forms in 2009 to start receiving 
her pension benefits under her policy. The completed forms made no mention of any Advisor 
acting on her behalf. And it wouldnt have been possible for anyone associated with Miss Ds 
council employer to instigate benefits being taken from her Aviva policy (or certainly without 
her permission - which there clearly wasnt). And they were entitled to rely on the completed 
illustration form as Miss Ds authority for Aviva to pay her pension in the way chosen.  
Unhappy with this response, Miss D brought her complaint to us. Aviva initially said the 
complaint had been brought to us too late, but one of our Ombudsmen issued a decision 
confirming Miss Ds complaint had been brought to us within the statutory time allowed. 
So, one of our Investigators considered Miss Ds complaint, but felt Aviva hadnt done 
anything wrong. He acknowledged, due to the passage of time, Aviva no longer retained 
many documents from the time and so it wasnt possible to evidence who had asked for the 
illustration. There was no record on Avivas system that Miss D had an appointed financial 
advisor at the time, and that section was also left blank on the returned forms. And on the 
balance of probability, it was unlikely anyone other than Miss D would have been sent/had 
access to the illustration document specifically created using her pension fund data.
Further, there was no evidence anyone connected with Miss Ds previous employer (council) 
had any involvement either. In summary, there wasnt any evidence suggesting any other 
partys involvement in the illustration being requested in 2009, or its completion, and it 
appeared more likely than not Miss D completed and returned the illustration. And Aviva 
were entitled to rely on that returned form as Miss Ds authority to begin paying her pension.
Miss D disagreed, and after further exchanges with our Investigator, asked for her case to be 
considered by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is essentially about whether Aviva allowed Miss Ds pension fund to be 
accessed, and an annuity purchased, without her permission. And more precisely, that the 
signed illustration forms Aviva received  which Miss D remains convinced were forged by 
someone connected to her previous council employment - werent sufficient for Aviva to rely 
on in setting up the annuity. This is what I am ultimately required to decide here. 
However, because of Miss Ds concern about the role someone at the council may have had 
in accessing the Aviva policy without her knowledge - coupled with an element of confusion 
about which policy Miss D had accessed - I need to draw some conclusions relating to the 
council pension in this decision. However, nothing I say below should be interpreted as an 
opinion on that council pension, or on how that pension provider has dealt with Miss D. 
Firstly, the distinction between the Aviva pension and the council pension?
Miss D said shed always believed, until 2017, that the pension shed been receiving since 
2009 was related to her service at the council, and her Aviva pension remained untouched. 
Miss D has also said the amounts paid in 2009 from the Aviva pension were the same as the 
severance payments the council told her in 2009 that shed eventually receive, which 
appears to have further added to her concerns or confusion. 
I havent seen any documents relating to the council pension, but I have seen the councils 
letter from March 2009 confirming her redundancy. This set out her termination benefits:
A severance payment equivalent to nine weeks salary, of £3,797.43, plus an annual 
pension of £232.39, or:
A severance payment equivalent to four and a half weeks salary, of £1,898.72, plus 
an annual pension of £1,329.24
This letter was produced, and these amounts calculated, approximately three months before 
the Aviva illustration was created in June 2009. And the Aviva option that was selected on 
the returned illustration form provided a £1,083.59 lump sum payment and £144.60 per year. 
These Aviva amounts are materially different (smaller) to the council benefits, even allowing 
for actuarial reductions that would have applied had Miss D taken her council pension early 
at that time. Further, I note Aviva have said no further payments were made into their policy 
after Miss D stopped paying into it at the end of 2004. And theres no evidence to suggest Miss Ds council pension funds were transferred into the Aviva scheme. Aviva have also 
confirmed they dont operate or have any connection to the councils pension scheme. So, 
theres no evidence to suggest any connection between the Aviva scheme. 
I note also Miss D told our Investigator she was contacted by the councils pension provider 
in 2017 (when she was 60) to discuss her council pension  in other words, clearly implying 
that pension still existed long after the 2009 Aviva pension was accessed. So, I think its 
sufficiently clear, based on the above, that only the Aviva pension was accessed in 2009, 
and this contained no benefits associated with, or transferred in from, her council pension.
Did someone connected with Miss Ds council pension communicate with Aviva?
Miss D has expressed repeated concerns that someone associated with the councils 
pension department was involved in accessing her Aviva pension in 2009 - she recalls being 
previously asked to sign blank paperwork connected to her council pension, and questions if 
this was used to complete/return the 2009 Aviva illustration without her knowledge. 
I do appreciate the strength of Miss Ds concerns here. But having considered the available 
evidence I think that is very unlikely. As Ive already said, Aviva had no connection to the 
council pension scheme which means the council would have had no means of knowing 
about Miss Ds existing Aviva policy (without her telling them). And even if Miss D did 
mention it to someone in the councils pension department when she started working for 
them, that wouldnt have given the council/its employees or agents permission to engage 
with Aviva on Miss Ds behalf. 
I appreciate Miss D thinks someone completed the forms  using a signature obtained from 
her (the blank piece of paper) and somehow copied that onto the Aviva illustration and 
submitted that photocopied version to Aviva - but I also think thats highly improbable. 
Echoing a point made by our Investigator, as well as there being no evidence of this, there 
was also no obvious benefit to this unknown person completing and submitting the 
illustration without telling Miss D. All the benefits were to be paid to Miss D - the lump sum 
was paid, and the annuity continues to be paid to her.      
Was there another advisor, unconnected to the council, involved?
Aviva have confirmed Miss D did authorise a firm of financial advisors to obtain information 
about her Aviva policy shortly after her 2004 redundancy (and have provided a copy of the 
letter the advisor sent to Aviva in 2005), but Aviva had no further contact from that advisor 
firm after that date. Ive seen nothing to suggest this firm, or anyone connected with it, was 
involved in accessing the Aviva pension, and Miss D hasnt suggested they were involved 
either. So, based on the limited evidence available here, Ive seen nothing that suggests this 
firm played any part in engaging with Aviva in 2009 to access Miss Ds pension.
Is it more likely than not Miss D did complete and return the Aviva illustration?
Taking all the above into account, I think its more likely than not that Miss returned the form 
to Aviva. Thats not to say Im questioning Miss Ds honesty or integrity in any way. Ive read 
all the documents shes provided, and listened to her calls with our investigator, and have no 
doubt her concerns are genuine. 
But, in reaching a decision here, whilst taking account of Miss Ds testimony, I must also 
consider the evidence as well. And where direct evidence isnt available  which is the case 
here, as Aviva have confirmed they dont have any documents or record showing who asked for the 2009 illustration  I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based 
on the limited evidence available. 
Im also aware Miss D was experiencing significant challenges in her personal life at the time 
the Aviva pension was accessed, and I thank her for sharing that information with us. And Id 
understand if the severity of those challenges, and their effect on Miss D in terms of how she 
was required to deal with her financial affairs, could have played a part in causing some of 
the concerns she had about how the Aviva pension came to be accessed. Id understand too 
if the close timing of Miss Ds council redundancy and her accessing the Aviva pension 
added to any confusion that may have existed at that time, and subsequently.
The returned Aviva illustration contains Miss Ds signature (matching her signature on a 
different document), together with her phone and bank details  all handwritten. I dont think 
Miss Ds suggestion that someone managed to copy her signature, phone and bank details, 
and secretly add them to an illustration  which would have been sent to her home address 
at the time (and not her work address) - is plausible. So, I think its most likely the Aviva 
illustration was completed and returned at that time by Miss D. 
So, I think Aviva had no reason not to rely on the returned forms as Miss Ds authority for 
them to purchase the annuity when they did. And so I wont be asking Aviva to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman