DRN-3257940
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a 
claim under the legal expenses section of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his policy in October 2019 for cover in relation to proceedings 
against his former employer. Mr B had already appointed solicitors to act for him at a cost of 
£300ph plus VAT. DAS said this was above what it would usually pay but asked for more 
details of the case. Another firm was then appointed by Mr B who said their rate was £175 
per hour plus VAT. DAS agreed to that firm acting for Mr B under the terms of the policy. 
However, in early April 2020, with not long to go before a hearing of his legal case, Mr B told 
DAS that his solicitors would not able to deal with the case any longer. Mr B asked for a 
panel firm of solicitors or for a new solicitor (Firm A) to be appointed. 
DAS agreed in principle to Firm A acting under the cover of the policy and offered to pay 
their costs at a rate of £217ph plus VAT, which it says is the appropriate the court guideline 
rate. The solicitors didnt agree and said the fee earner with conduct of Mr Bs case charges 
£350ph plus VAT.  DAS suggested Mr B agree to instructing one of its panel solicitors, or 
another firm who would agree the hourly rate offered. DAS said it could not provide any 
cover if he wanted to stay with Firm A. 
In early May 2020, in its response to Mr Bs complaint, DAS agreed to cover all
reasonable costs incurred with Firm A up to 24 April 2020 (the day after the hearing) at an 
hourly rate of £217ph plus VAT, subject to a costs assessment. It maintained its position that 
it would not provide any further cover, as it had not agreed terms with Firm A.
In mid-July 2020, Firm A told DAS that Mr Bs case had been settled through mediation. 
Mr B is unhappy with the refusal of cover and the handling of the claim. Firm A has made a 
number of submissions on behalf of Mr B, which Ive summarised below:
the £217ph offered is not reasonable and is not the correct rate to apply in any event. 
It is based in central London and the guideline rates for its area are significantly 
higher. 
The court guidelines are also out of date and are, in any case, only starting guideline 
rates and not fixed rates. 
It was reasonable for a partner of the firm to represent Mr B, given the age of the 
case and amount of documentation to consider prior to the imminent hearing.
DASs suggestion to Mr B that he instruct a panel solicitor or another solicitor who 
would charge less, was a breach of his right to choose his own solicitor. 
In any case, Mr B was unable to find an experienced discrimination solicitor to act for 
him at the rate offered.
The costs outstanding since 2020, have still not been paid. 
The policy was mis-sold. It does not state policyholders can only instruct solicitors in 
the area they live; it does not fix the hourly rate of £217 plus VAT; and it does not say 
that indemnity would be refused if the hourly rate is not agreed; and does not make 
clear that a policyholder might be liable for a shortfall in costs. 
Mr B did not therefore know what cover he was getting in exchange for his premiums.
The previous solicitors (who acted for £175ph plus VAT) had a paralegal dealing the 
with case but it needed a more senior fee earner due to its complexity and so 
requires a higher hourly rate. 
DAS has breached the relevant regulations relating to legal expense insurance by 
only paying an hourly rate based on where the complainant lives, which restricted   
Mr Bs freedom of choice. The relevant EU regulations mean that his freedom of 
choice should not be fettered and the option of panel solicitors only is a fetter to that 
freedom. 
And in any case, the evidence provided by DAS from two panel firms by way of 
letters dated December 2021, that they would have taken the case in April 2020, do 
not specify the level of fee earner that would have had conduct of the case and are 
contrived and made in bad faith.  
DAS also breached the regulations by refusing to pay any costs on the basis they 
had not signed terms of agreement because they couldnt agree the hourly rate. 
Firm A refers to the Court of Appeal decision in the case of Brown-Quinn1 as being  
relevant to this case and says it supports its position that the court guideline rates are 
not fair. 
Mr B should have received a written explanation of all his options and the possible 
risks associated with them, before the previous solicitors came off record as acting, 
including the possibility that DAS would not pay all his legal costs. All Firm A had was 
some confused verbal information from Mr B, as told whilst he was going through a 
stressful disability discrimination claim. The explanation it was provided with does 
not tick any box relating to professional duty of solicitor or professional duty of an 
insurer.
DAS failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments in the way it communicated 
with Mr B in relation to this matter, in breach of The Equality Act 2010. This relates in 
particular to its final response letter of 11 May 2020 (re-sent in March 2021, as he 
said he had not received it) telling him costs would not be covered if Firm A would not 
agree its terms. 
No remedy has been offered for the breaches of contract and relevant regulations 
and no assessment made of Mr Bs financial loss or the distress and inconvenience 
he has suffered. 
DAS should also pay £5,000 for Firm As costs of pursuing this complaint, which Mr B 
could not have done himself. 
Since the complaint was brought to us DAS has accepted that it cannot refuse all indemnity 
on the basis that no terms had been agreed with the solicitors Mr B appointed. I am 
disappointed that it maintained that it was entitled to do so, as late as 2021, as it has been 
well aware of our position on this  as confirmed by the courts- for some time before then. (I 
will comment on this further below.) However, I am pleased that issue is now agreed. I also 
understand it has made an interim payment for the costs up to 24 April 2021 of £3,281.04 
and also now offered a further £12,412.40 for costs incurred with Firm A after that date (all 
based on the hourly rate of £217ph plus VAT). Firm A says this still leaves a significant 
shortfall for Mr B to pay and DAS has not written to Mr B to explain this to him.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered that DAS was entitled to limit the costs to £217ph plus VAT. The 
1 (1) Brown-Quinn (2) Webster Dixon LLP and Others v (1) Equity Syndicate Management Ltd (2) 
Motorplus Ltd [2012] EWCA Civ 1633Investigator also stated that DAS should not have refused cover for ongoing costs entirely 
just because the terms of appointment had not been agreed with Firm A.
Mr B does not accept the Investigators assessment and has also raised a further complaint 
relating to a subject access request he made to DAS in November 2021. This is being dealt 
with separately. I am only addressing the complaint about the handling of the claim in this 
decision.
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Freedom of choice
The Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 are derived from 
European Council Directive 87/344/EEC of 22 June 1987, recast by the Directive 
2009/138/EC into the Insolvency II Directive. 
The Directive 87/344 made it clear that where insurers have given undertakings to separate 
legal expenses from its other classes of business (which is the option taken by all UK legal 
expenses insurers) a policyholder will have the freedom to choose their own legal 
representative once legal proceedings are imminent.
Mr B therefore had the freedom to choose his own legal representatives, from early on in his 
claim and long before Firm A were appointed, and was not obliged after then to use one of 
DASs panel of pre-approved solicitors. 
Was Mr Bs freedom of choice unfairly restricted due to the hourly rate offered by DAS?  
Mr Bs policy covers his legal costs and expenses in relation to actions such as the one he 
was claiming for. The policy defines costs and expenses as being: 
All reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the appointed representative in 
accordance with the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment. 
The policy also says If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not a 
preferred firm, we will give your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on the same terms 
as the preferred law firm. However, if they refuse to act on this basis, the most we will pay is 
the amount we would have paid if they had agreed to the DAS standard Terms of 
Appointment. 
The policy document in place at the time of this claim doesnt provide any further guidance 
as to how DAS would assess what is reasonable and necessary, or any specific hourly 
rate. 
DAS has not limited the indemnity to the amount it would pay its panel solicitors under its 
Standard Terms of Agreement (which would usually be around £100ph plus VAT). As the 
terms of that agreement are not set out clearly in the policy, I think this is reasonable and it 
would not have been entitled to limit costs to this figure. 
I do not agree that the policy terms mean DAS is required to pay whatever a policyholders 
chosen solicitor wants to charge. The policy provides that it will pay reasonable and necessary costs. In the absence of any more specific detail about the indemnity provided, I 
have to determine if what DAS has offered can be considered to be reasonable taking 
account the case involved and all other circumstances. 
Firm A says the Court of Appeal decision in the case of Brown-Quinn2 is relevant to this case 
and supports its position that the court guideline rates are not fair. 
I have had regard to the case, as it is relevant law. However, I do not agree that it means the 
court guidelines rates are not an appropriate benchmark. The Court of Appeal decision 
provides that insurers can seek to limit costs, provided the insureds freedom of choice (as 
provided for in the regulations) is not rendered meaningless.
In determining what a reasonable rate should be, it seems to me that the court guideline 
hourly rates (used by the courts mainly in summary assessment of costs) provide a good 
starting point for assessing a reasonable hourly rate. The court guideline rates are set for the 
purpose of guiding assessment for summary assessment of costs and they provide a 
starting point on reasonable hourly rates for solicitors and legal executives of varying levels 
of experience and in various locations. It therefore seems to me that the court guideline 
hourly rates provide evidence of a range of reasonable hourly rates which could have been 
reasonably incurred by Mr B. There will be some solicitors within each area that charge more 
than the guideline rate and some that charge less. 
Firm A has also argued that it is not fair to limit the indemnity to these guideline rates, as 
they are outdated and are only starting guidelines. I am not persuaded that the court 
guideline rates are not a reasonable tool to use in determining a reasonable hourly rate. I 
accept they are guidelines and that the rates increased in October 2021 for the first time 
since 2012. However, theres no evidence presented to me that the pre-October 2021 rates 
were not being applied by the courts in 2020. I also note that the court service provided 
some further guidance, including that an hourly rate in excess of the guideline figures may 
be appropriate for Grade A fee earners in substantial and complex litigation where other 
factors, including the value of the litigation, the level of complexity, the urgency or 
importance of the matter as well as any international element would justify a significantly 
higher rate to reflect higher average costs. It also says that other factors can be taken into 
consideration in determining the actual hourly rate. However, I have not seen any convincing 
evidence that any features of Mr Bs legal case would mean the relevant guideline rate 
generally isnt reasonable in his case. 
Under the guidelines, a Grade A fee earner is defined as being Solicitors with over eight 
years post qualification experience including at least eight years litigation experience. There 
is no higher grade, for the purposes of the court guideline rates. 
Mr Bs solicitor was a grade A fee earner under this definition. Firm A says it is a London 
Area 1 firm (which command the highest possible rates) according to the guidelines but I 
consider they would be London 3 according to the guidelines relevant at the time, which is 
based on their postcode. The updated guidelines (which do not restrict London 1 firms to any 
particular London postcode) define London Area 1 firms as being those involved in very 
heavy commercial and corporate work by centrally based London firms not restricted to a 
particular postcode.
I am not persuaded there is any convincing evidence that this case would count as heavy 
commercial or corporate case. It was a disability discrimination claim. Firm A says that      
Mr Bs attributes, the importance of the case to him, the value of the claim, the fact there 
2 (1) Brown-Quinn (2) Webster Dixon LLP and Others v (1) Equity Syndicate Management Ltd (2) 
Motorplus Ltd [2012] EWCA Civ 1633were 100 allegations of discrimination to be determined and his employer intended to call at 
least five witnesses all mean it was particularly complex and that it was reasonable to charge 
the rate it did. 
DAS has not, as far as Im aware, disputed that it was reasonable for a grade A fee earner to 
handle the case. However, I have not seen any evidence that it was of particularly high 
value, involved any novel or complex point of law, or other issues. Firm A says it was of high 
value and the initial schedule of loss was relatively high but it settled for much less. I accept 
the case was of importance to Mr B and there were a number of allegations and would have 
involved some complexity, but that in itself does not establish that it was of the highest level 
of complexity and would qualify as very heavy commercial work. Firm A may deal with such 
cases but that does not mean that it would be reasonable to apply the rates that would apply 
to such cases to a case that does not fall within that category. 
Given the above, I am satisfied that London 3 is a reasonable categorisation for Firm A, 
based on its postcode (which is a relevant factor for London Areas 2 and 3 under the 
guidelines in force at the relevant time and in the updated guidelines).   
Mr B lives in National area 1 and his tribunal was also heard in National Area 1. I also 
understand the courts would usually take account of the location of the hearing and apply 
the rates for that area, when assessing costs. 
The court guideline hourly rates for the areas mentioned above (until October 2021 when 
they were increased) were: 
London 3 - Grade A fee earner £229-267ph plus VAT.
National 1  Grade A fee earner £217ph plus VAT. 
I can see why Mr B would want London solicitors. However, theres no evidence that there 
were not suitable expert solicitors in the National 1 area. And there is nothing to link the case 
to the London area the solicitors were based in. Firm A has said it has previously been paid 
its normal rate by DAS on another case and so it should do so here. I am only able to 
determine if Mr Bs claim has bene dealt with fairly and reasonably and whatever decision it 
might have made on another case, is not directly relevant to my consideration to this 
complaint. 
Firm A has also said that Mr B was not aware of the indemnity he was to be provided with 
under the policy, in exchange for his premium. However, I am tasked with determining what 
reasonable and necessary costs should be in the absence of any hourly rate being 
specified in the policy. In my opinion, Mr B was entitled to expect his reasonable costs to be 
paid but this cannot be interpreted as meaning he was entitled to expect the costs of the 
most senior solicitor available, in one of the most expensive areas, to be met. I am therefore 
satisfied that it is reasonable to apply the National 1 rates. 
I am also not persuaded that Mr B has established that there is any compelling justification 
for exceeding the guideline rate. It is not enough to simply say it was complex, when the 
Grade A rate already assumes a need for seniority and expertise. There has to be a 
compelling reason to justify exceeding the guideline rate and I have not been presented with 
any. For these reasons, it would seem to me that the evidence currently available supports a 
finding that the court guideline rate for National 1, is not unreasonable in relation to Mr Bs 
case. 
Firm A says that the offer to pay only £217ph plus VAT effectively renders Mr Bs statutory 
right to choose his own solicitors meaningless, as it limits him to a choice of panel solicitors only, because no other non-panel firm would be able to handle the case for this amount. 
Firm A says that Mr B approached three other firms and they all told him they would not take 
the case for the £217ph offered. However, I have not seen any evidence to support this and 
have not seen any convincing evidence that no other suitable non-panel firms would be able 
to act for the amount offered. 
The solicitors that acted for Mr B before Firm A asked for £175ph plus VAT and while they 
apparently said that the matter would have to be dealt with by someone with more 
experience, there is no record of them asking for a higher rate from DAS at that stage. I also 
note that a significant amount of the preparatory work for the case had been carried out by 
those solicitors (at that rate) and an offer of settlement had been received by the time they 
said they could no longer act. 
DAS has also provided evidence from two of its panel firms that confirm they would have 
taken the case for the panel rate of £100ph plus VAT. Firm A questions the veracity of this 
evidence, as it says the panel firms have an ongoing relationship with DAS. The firms are on 
DASs panel of pre-approved solicitors and there is therefore a relationship there but I do not 
think this means that I cannot rely on their evidence that they would have taken the case on 
those terms. Firm A also says the letters do not confirm the grade of fee earner that would 
deal with the case. It would be up to the firms to allocate the case appropriately but they 
have confirmed they would have taken the case for the panel rate.  
Given all of the above, I do not consider Mr B has established that there was no other non-
panel firm willing to take instructions for £217ph plus VAT. In addition, there was a choice of 
panel firms. I dont therefore think the hourly rate offered is so low that it rendered Mr Bs 
freedom to choose meaningless. And for the reasons Ive explained I think the rate is 
reasonable taking into the account the circumstances of this particular claim.
First solicitors terminating agreement
Mr Bs solicitor has said that DAS should have provided a written explanation of his options 
including that DAS might not pay his legal fees before the solicitors came off the record as 
acting for him. DAS did not appoint the solicitors and is only responsible for indemnifying    
Mr Bs legal costs (for a valid claim in accordance with the policy terms). It therefore had no 
control over why or when the solicitors came off the record as acting for him. They did not 
ask for a higher rate for themselves or counsel, as far as I can see from the files presented 
to me. 
Firm A also says that no clear written explanation of his options was provided and all they 
had was a confused verbal account from Mr B. Firm A was not involved at that point with 
DAS, and the information or documents Mr B provided them is not relevant to DAS. From the 
correspondence I have seen, DAS and Mr B emailed about various options available to him 
and I am not persuaded that DAS acted unreasonably at that point, or failed to provide him 
with sufficiently clear information.  
Indemnity beyond 24 April 2020 and refusal to appoint Firm A
We have long-held (in line with the case of Brown-Quinn) that if the claim is covered and the 
policyholder is entitled to choose their own solicitor, the insurer cannot refuse all cover 
simply because the terms of appointment aren't agreed with the solicitor. This is because the 
terms of appointment are a separate contract between the insurer and the lawyers. The 
policyholder will not normally have much influence over this and so it would be unfair to let the lack of agreement over this mean the policyholder doesn't get the cover they're entitled 
to. It would also inhibit the policyholders freedom of choice. 
I do therefore agree with Mr Bs solicitor that DAS should not have refused all cover under 
the policy pending resolution of the dispute about the hourly rate. DAS should have agreed 
the solicitors appointment and agreed the £217ph on an interim basis and I am disappointed 
that it maintained its position on this for so long. 
DAS has since agreed to review the costs incurred after the hearing on 24 April 2020 subject 
to a costs assessment and based on the hourly rate it offered. I think this is reasonable for 
the reasons Ive explained.
Reasonable Adjustments
Firm A has also said that DAS has failed to take account of Mr Bs health condition and 
failed to make reasonable adjustments in the way it dealt with the claim and communicated 
with Mr B. As such Firm A says DAS has discriminated against him and victimised him. 
In particular, Mr B has complained about sending its final response letter on 11 May 2020, 
without explaining the outcome of his complaint verbally and then not making any other 
contact for several months. The complaint about the subject access request has been dealt 
with separately and so I cannot make any final determination on that matter. With regard to 
the May 2020 letter, Firm A says this discriminatory conduct, in breach of the Equality Act, 
exacerbated his anxiety. Firm A says the question we have to answer is whether it had a 
duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Act and whether it failed to make them. 
The Investigator has already explained that its not for this service to decide if the Equality 
Act has been breached as thats for the courts to decide. I have however, considered 
whether DAS acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr B while having regard to the 
law, including in writing that letter. 
Mr B had written to DAS expressing his dissatisfaction with its response to his claim. It 
correctly in my opinion, treated this as a complaint and as such was required to provide a 
final response to that complaint in writing. That in itself would not amount to discrimination. 
In my opinion, the letter was written in professional terms and while the contents might have 
caused disappointment and stress (as DAS was saying it would not indemnify his legal 
expenses) it was required to set out its position in writing (even if that position is later 
deemed to be incorrect) and it did so. I also note that Mr B had communicated with DAS in 
writing prior to this and had not indicated any issue with that. 
Firm A also suggests DAS should have spoken to Mr B to ensure he understood the 
contents of the letter and knew his options. Mr B has also said that he did not receive the 
letter at the time it was sent. DAS therefore resent it in March 2021 and extended the time 
within which Mr B was required to refer to this service. I think it acted fairly and reasonably in 
doing this and I do not think it had any further obligation to follow this up.
I do not think any award specifically for the fact of having written that letter is warranted. 
DAS had to respond to Mr B in writing to set out its position and it did so. Mr B was unhappy 
with the content of the response and so he brought his complaint to us. I appreciate Mr B 
has said he didnt receive the response to his complaint dated 11 May 2020. However, I can 
see that it was sent to the address we have for Mr B. I do not think DAS treated Mr B badly 
or discriminated against him.
DASs handling of the claim, including delay in payment of costs, financial loss and 
compensation Firm A has confirmed that Mr B has not paid any of its costs directly, so he has not suffered 
any financial loss as a result of this matter. So while I agree that it was not reasonable of 
DAS to refuse to proceed with the hourly rate offered, and it could have made an interim 
payment sooner, I have no power to compensate Mr Bs solicitors for having to wait for 
payment, as they are not eligible complainants in their own right. And because I think DAS 
was also entitled to limit the indemnity to £217ph plus VAT, it follows that I do not think any 
compensation is warranted for any stress Mr B suffered as a result of thinking he might have 
to pay any shortfall. 
However, Mr B was also told that none of the costs he incurred with Firm A would be 
covered, beyond the April 2020 hearing. It seems to me this would have caused him stress 
and worry, which could have bene avoided. I therefore consider that some compensation is 
warranted for this. When determining the appropriate amount of compensation, I have taken 
into account the fact that Firm A and counsel apparently agreed to defer payment, so Mr B  
has not had to meet those costs himself and he was aware there would have been a shortfall 
in any event. Having taken everything into account, I consider the sum of £200 to be 
appropriate for this.  
Interim payment
DAS has now made a payment of costs based on £217ph plus VAT to Firm A. It is unhappy 
that this leaves a shortfall for Mr A to pay. As I have determined that the rate of £217ph plus 
VAT is not unreasonable, I do not think DAS has to make any further payment. Firm A also 
says it has not explained this to Mr B and has not told him what his options are. Mr B is 
already aware that DAS would only pay a rate of £217ph, so he is aware of its position on 
this. It will be up to Firm A whether it seeks further payment from Mr B. 
Mis-selling
Mr Bs solicitor has also said the policy was mis-sold to him, as it did not set out clearly 
enough the restrictions of cover that were applied in his claim. DAS did not sell the policy, 
which was sold as part of his household insurance policy. Any allegation of mis-sale should 
therefore be directed to the seller and I cannot take this part of the complaint any further in 
the context of this decision against DAS. 
Firm As costs of dealing with this complaint
Firm A says Mr B could not have pursued this complaint without its professional 
representation because to the complex issue relating to the egal expenses regulations and 
the Brown-Quinn judgement. 
We dont normally award the costs of professional representation in establishing an 
insurance claim, or pursuing a complaint, as consumers have the right to come to us free of 
charge and unrepresented if they have a dispute about insurance policy. We are an informal, 
impartial dispute resolution service, with an inquisitorial remit and do not require 
complainants to plead their case in the way they would need to in court. 
I have not seen any convincing evidence that Mr B was unable to bring this complaint 
without professional representation. I am not therefore going to award any costs for this.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited in that I 
consider it should not have refused all indemnity beyond April 2020, on the basis terms were 
not agreed with Mr Bs solicitors and require it to do the following: 
indemnify all Mr Bs reasonable legal costs with Firm A at £217ph plus VAT (subject 
to the remaining terms of the policy, including the indemnity limit). I understand that 
two payments towards these costs have already been made, so if those are accepted 
(aside from in regard to the hourly rate) no further payment is required; and  
pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
refusal to provide any cover for his ongoing fees with Firm A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman