DRN-4208935
The complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about the handling of a claim under a home insurance policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents and engineers acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs G has plumbing and drainage insurance with Aviva.  
In December 2022 Mrs G contacted Aviva to report a leak at her home. An engineer 
attended the same day but was unable to locate or contain the leak and said a leak detection 
team would need to attend. 
Mrs G contacted Aviva again the following day to get an update on her claim and was told 
the leak detection office was closed until the new year. When the office opened again in the 
new year Aviva contacted Mrs G to make an appointment. Unfortunately one couldnt be 
made for around six days. But Aviva told Mrs G it would try and bring it forward if it could. 
The initial appointment made was no longer available. And so Mrs G was provided with a 
new date which was three days after the original appointment. 
When the engineer attended Mrs Gs property they were told they were no longer required 
since Mrs G had cancelled the claim with Aviva and arranged for the repairs herself. Mrs G 
made a complaint to Aviva. She was unhappy with the delay in sending a engineer to locate 
and repair the leak, and the delay had caused damage to her kitchen flooring which would 
now need to be replaced. 
Aviva said it was sorry Mrs G had been provided with incorrect information regarding when 
she would receive a call back from the leak detection team. Aviva apologised the service 
hadnt been what she expected. It offered Mrs G £140 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs G wasnt happy with the response from Aviva. So she referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for her. She said she recognised there was delay 
in arranging an appointment for the leak detection team to attend. But given the Christmas 
period its offices were closed until the new year. She said the offer made by Aviva was fair in 
the circumstances of the complaint and so she wouldnt ask Aviva to take any further action. 
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators outcome. She said because of the delays by Aviva 
the damage caused meant her kitchen floor needed to be replaced. She said she paid to 
have the flooring lifted and dried out so she could use her kitchen. She said when the initial 
engineer came out he was unable to detect the leak and so it was left, which she found 
worrying and upsetting.
Since Mrs G didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
My provisional decision 
I recently issues a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
I understand Mrs G has strong views about what happened and I can empathise with the 
position she has found herself in. I have read and considered everything I have received 
carefully. My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
The nature of home emergency insurance is to cover emergency repairs when things go 
wrong. It isnt a maintenance policy. Mrs G has Plumbing and Draining insurance which 
provides cover for, leaking pipes, blocked drains, blockages to sinks and toilets, leaks or 
blockages to the water supply pipe, and dripping or seized pipes. 
The main part of Mrs Gs complaint is that Aviva didnt provide the service to her it should 
have done by not carrying out an emergency repair to stop the leak. And I think it would 
have been reasonable for Aviva to prioritise Mrs G as a vulnerable customer but I cant see it 
took any steps that shows it considered her vulnerabilities when dealing with her claim, 
which is what I would have expected it to do. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and they confirm Mrs G is, covered for 
problems in relation to your plumbing and drainage. The engineer will resolve the immediate 
problem by repairing or replacing the leaky pipes. So I understand why Mrs G was 
expecting her home emergency insurance provider to stop the leak, and I dont think Aviva 
left Mrs G with a repair as per the terms of the policy. 
Mrs G says when the engineer initially inspected her property he was unable to locate the 
leak and told her the leak detection team would need to attend. He told her someone would 
call her that day to arrange an appointment. Mrs G says she was concerned the leak was 
still ongoing and was worried about the damage it might have been causing and I can 
understand why. Both Mrs G and the engineer have said the water leak could be heard. 
I can see Aviva contacted Mrs G in the new year to try and arrange an appointment. There 
was an issue with the original one not being confirmed and so a further appointment was 
made. In fact Aviva didnt attend Mrs Gs property again to investigate until 12 or 13 January, 
some 16 days after Mrs G initially reported the leak. 
Given the circumstances described by Mrs G together with the fact an engineer inspected 
the property and wasnt able to diagnose the problem, and then looking at what the policy 
covers which is an attendance by an engineer (which did happen) and for an emergency 
repair to be carried out (which didnt happen). I think its fair to conclude Aviva havent acted 
fairly or reasonably towards Mrs G by not arranging for the emergency repair to be carried 
out. 
Kitchen flooring
I understand there may have been delays in dealing with the leak due to the time of year. 
However under the terms of the policy Mrs G was expecting the leak to be stopped. Overall 
it seems to me more likely than not that had Aviva repaired the leak when Mrs G reported it, 
the damage caused to Mrs Gs floor by the escaping water would not have reached such a 
level that the flooring would need to be replaced. Mrs G has said she wants Aviva to pay for the cost of replacing her kitchen floor but this isnt 
something she is entitled to under the terms of the policy. In the general exclusions the 
policy says, any losses as a result of a problem covered by this policy other than those 
direct costs expressly covered by this policy. So I dont think its appropriate for Aviva to pay 
towards the replacement flooring. It could be that the damage to the flooring might be 
covered under a home insurance policy; such as buildings or contents, that Mrs G might 
have in respect of her policy. But that isnt something that falls within this complaint. 
I can see Mrs G has suffered considerable stress and anxiety as a result of this matter and I 
empathise with the situation she finds herself in. Ive thought about the impact this matter is 
likely to have had on Mrs G. She has explained she is in her late 80s and is registered 
partially sighted. Her home emergency cover is to protect herself in situations such as this. 
And so when Aviva failed to help her with the leak I think the impact on Mrs G would have 
been significant. 
Aviva offered Mrs G £140 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ive thought 
about this carefully. Its not our role to punish businesses where they havent acted fairly 
towards consumers, but given the circumstances described by Mrs G, the length of the 
delays and the inconvenience she has suffered I have detailed what I think would be 
reasonable below. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Mrs G didnt provide any further comments following my provisional decision. 
Aviva responded to reiterate the facts it had already provided and to say it wasnt at fault the 
repair couldnt be completed on the day it was reported due to the leak detection team being 
unavailable over the Christmas period. 
Ive thought carefully about whether this changes anything set out in my provisional decision 
and it doesnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mrs G nor Aviva had anything additional to add to the findings 
set out in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this 
final decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons set out above 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Aviva have acted unreasonably and so it should; 
Reimburse £465 for the cost of repairing the pipe
Pay Mrs G £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Reimburse Mrs G for any excess she pays on her buildings or contents insurance 
policy to replace the flooring.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman