DRN-2390531
The complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his van insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with consumer complaints about regulated and 
ancillary activities by an insurance company or other financial firm. In our final decision we 
name the firm, but we dont name any other party, brand or product.
Mr R insured his vehicle with Admiral. Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers, 
glass replacement companies and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their 
actions.
Mr R is a plumber. He had a brand-new pick-up truck made by one of the biggest motor 
manufacturers. It was on finance costing him about £450.00 per month.
The insurance was comprehensive and included windscreen cover.
On 1 September 2019, Mr R made a claim to Admiral for a crack in the passenger side of 
the windscreen of his vehicle.
 
Admirals first glass company made an unsuccessful attempt to replace the windscreen in 
early September 2019. Mr R complained to Admiral. It sent Mr R £160.00 on 27 September 
2019.
Admirals second glass company struggled to source a replacement windscreen. It didnt 
source and fit one until 28 November 2019. But Mr R later complained that it leaked.
Admiral sent a final response letter dated 9 January 2020. It said it was sending Mr R 
£75.00.
Mr R first contacted us on 14 January 2020. He eventually got another new windscreen on 
28 January 2020.
 
our investigators opinion
Our first investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral hadn't provided Mr R with a satisfactory service. He recommended that Admiral 
should pay Mr R £500.00 compensation for the delay and the trouble and upset this had 
caused.
 
Our second investigator also recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think it was fair that the first glass company caused further damage to Mr Rs vehicle 
because they failed to bring the correct windscreen to the job. Mr R was then forced to 
drive his car with an even bigger crack in the windscreen. She didnt think it was fair that he 
had to wait nearly five months for a replacement windscreen.
She also recommended that Admiral should pay Mr R £500.00 compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Admiral on 2 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
Admirals final response dated 9 January 2020 accepted several shortcomings 
including the failure to ring back. It said it was sending Mr R a cheque for £75.00. 
With the earlier £160.00, that made the total of £235.00. 
The provision of courtesy vehicles went a long way to mitigate the inconvenience and 
distress Mr R suffered. And the second glass company had put right the issues with 
Mr Rs vehicle.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr R  in addition to the payments totalling £235.00  a further £250.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr R hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
Admiral disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
The main issue is that the manufacturer does not produce the parts quick enough, 
which is outside Admirals control and not something it envisaged when a policy is 
offered.
Its first glass company shouldnt have removed the glass. However, had they ordered 
the correct glass, Mr R would have still found himself in the same position, as the 
manufacturer could not supply the windscreen quick enough. The glass company 
was attempting to assist Mr R by refitting the glass so he could continue using it. But 
even if they hadnt removed the glass, the damage already sustained made the 
vehicle undriveable so further damage would be irrelevant.
Mr R was not entitled to a replacement vehicle throughout this claim and it would not 
have been a claim under the vehicle damage section of the policy. Admiral has in fact 
paid £4,236.57 for a hire vehicle and this incident does not affect Mr Rs No Claim 
Bonus nor will it be rated upon.
Mr R has chosen to purchase a vehicle with is notoriously difficult to obtain parts for 
and Admiral cannot be held responsible for this.
Therefore, Admiral has compensated Mr R enough between the hire cars and 
monetary compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that Mr R took out or renewed the policy on 26 April 2019 in relation to a vehicle that on 
2 August 2019 he replaced with the pick-up. The insurance certificate said it covered the 
pick-up from 2 August 2019 to 25 April 2020. Admiral accepted the change of vehicle.As the certificate said that the permitted use was for social, domestic, pleasure and 
commuting, I find it likely that Mr R was using the vehicle to work on a site, rather than to 
carry materials to visit customers.
The policy schedule gave Mr Rs address, which sounds like a flat. The schedule said the 
vehicle was to be kept overnight in a car park. Mr R has told us he didnt have a garage.
The section of Admirals policy on Windscreen damage" covered replacement subject to an 
excess of £95.00. It didnt cover a courtesy van.
 
I havent seen enough evidence to support Admirals statement that the vehicle was 
undriveable when its first glass company attended Mr Rs van on 3 September 2019. 
From what Mr R and Admiral have each said, the glass company removed the damaged 
screen before realising that it didnt have a replacement to fit. The glass company then put 
the damaged windscreen back.
I find that - on behalf of Admiral - the first glass company fell below a reasonable standard of 
service. And I accept Mr Rs statement that this caused the crack to get bigger. So I find it 
more likely than not that the first glass company caused the vehicle to become undriveable.
Mr R complained and Admiral instructed a second glass company. It confirmed that there 
was a two-month wait for a replacement windscreen. I accept that the delay was beyond 
Admirals control.
 
But I consider that Admiral had undertaken an insurance obligation to source a replacement 
more quickly. And Admiral was responsible for causing the vehicle to be undriveable while 
Mr R waited for a replacement windscreen.
From about 17 September 2019 Admiral arranged courtesy vehicles for Mr R. At first that 
was a small van at a cost of about £17.00 per day. From about 26 September 2019 it was a 
pick-up at a cost of about £40.00 per day. From about 10 October 2019 it was an executive 
vehicle at a cost of about £44.00 per day.
 
From Admirals file, Ive seen that it sent Mr R £160.00 on 27 September 2019. I havent 
seen any accompanying letter
.
On 28 November 2019, the second glass company fitted a replacement windscreen.
Mr R has told us he went away on holiday from 4 December to 15 December 2019. I infer 
that he parked his van in the car park outdoors. When he returned, he found water ingress 
and water damage to the interior including the roof lining. He was concerned about electrical 
problems. 
The glass company asked him to bring the vehicle in. I think Mr R was too busy. So I dont 
hold Admiral responsible for the delay at that time.
On 19 December 2019 Admiral didnt contact Mr R when it should have. He complained 
further on 20 December 2019.
In January 2020, Mr R reported that he couldnt lock his vehicle because the alarm kept 
going off. Admiral offered to store the van, but it didnt offer a courtesy vehicle. So Mr R had 
to carry on using his vehicle.Admirals final response dated 9 January 2020 accepted several shortcomings including the 
failure to ring back. It said it was sending Mr R a cheque for £75.00. With the earlier 
£160.00, that made the total of £235.00. 
On 13 January 2020 Mr R allowed the glass company to collect his vehicle. I think it hoped 
to remove and re-fit the same windscreen and to return the vehicle by 17 January 2020. For 
that period Mr R accepted a small hire vehicle. 
 
The glass company says it found an issue with the glass rather than the way it had fitted it. 
And I think at that point it made great efforts in order to source another replacement 
windscreen. Nevertheless, it didnt return Mr Rs vehicle until 28 January 2020.
And his vehicle had a scratch on the body work and interior damage. But the glass company 
repaired that damage and cleaned the van inside. From what Mr R has said, that resolved 
those issues.
From its file, I accept that Admiral spent about £4,000.00 on courtesy vehicles for Mr R. 
Admiral also paid Mr R £235.00. Its not clear to me whether our investigators intended to 
direct Admiral to pay £500.00 in addition.
However, I consider that the provision of courtesy vehicles went a long way to mitigate the 
inconvenience and distress Mr R suffered. And the second glass company has put right the 
issues with Mr Rs vehicle.
Putting things right
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr R  in addition to the 
payments totalling £235.00  a further £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R  in addition to the payments totalling 
£235.00  a further £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman