DRN-1515673
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr S. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996. The PPI covered a store credit 
account. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. This is because I think its unlikely AXA told Mr S 
clearly about some important details of the policy  especially the part of the policy which 
restricted claims for medical conditions you already had. I think this would have been 
important to Mr S, and probably would have changed whether he took the PPI. I say this 
because he suffered from a long term medical condition. Even though it might have been 
managed by medication at the time, it is the type of condition that sometimes causes serious 
health problems later on. I think hed have thought it likely that, at some time, hed need to 
claim  but he would then have found he was unable to. 
So Im satisfied this was a mis-sale and that Mr S has lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr S would have owed when he closed his credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr S owed when he closed his account 
and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until the point when Mr S 
wouldve owed something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr S 
wouldve owed AXA something on his credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr S that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman