The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reduce the interest rate on her loan.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs Z wanted to buy a car and having located a suitable one she made an 
application to Lloyds for a hire purchase agreement. She was offered finance at an annual 
percentage rate (APR) of 12.3%. The car needed repairs and while waiting for these to be 
carried out she found an alternative car. This car was similar to the original one, but when 
Mrs Z amended her application increasing the sum required by £635 Lloyds increased the 
APR to 15.2%.
She asked the bank to explain the increase and it said that it couldnt give her a definitive 
answer. It said the revised application was treated as a new one and the rates were 
calculated taking into account a variety of factors. Mrs Z proceeded with her application and 
asked Lloyds to honour its original offer.
It refused and so Mrs Z brought her complaint to this service saying the revised rate would 
cost her and additional £33.33 a month. It was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
He sympathised with Mrs Z, but said she had accepted the revised rate offered by the bank 
and had no grounds to expect it to subsequently reduce it. She hadnt been forced or 
pressurised into taking out the loan and he didnt think he could ask the bank to make any 
alterations to the loan agreement.
Mrs Z didnt agree and said that she had been told that if she withdrew she would have to 
wait three months before making another application. She needed a car for her work and 
couldnt delay matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Z entered into a commercial agreement knowing the rate which Lloyds was prepared to 
charge. It was entitled to make a commercial decision as to what APR it would offer having 
taken into account a wide variety of factors. The rates offered by lenders will vary depending 
on circumstances. In Mrs Zs case the sum she borrowed increased and there may have 
been any number of other changes which affected the APR offered.
It was open to Mrs Z to seek alternative finance, but she chose to accept the offer made by 
Lloyds. I would add that that there are many lenders she could have approached other than 
Lloyds. As such I consider she could have sought finance elsewhere without any delay. 
DRN-1794210I appreciate she was concerned that multiple applications may have affected her credit 
score, but given she wasnt rejected by Lloyds I dont believe this would have been a 
significant reason not to explore other options. Quite simply, I cannot ask the bank to reduce 
the rate simply because it had made a different offer for a different loan prior to the one she 
accepted. 
I appreciate that it would be easier for Mrs Z to accept the new rate if she could see why it 
was higher than the original. However, such details are not easily accessible due to several 
reasons including the need for the bank to protect its security.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28July2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman