DRN-3953031
The complaint
Mr M complains about the sales process with One Call Insurance Services Limited (One 
Call) which he feels led to his application for a motorcycle insurance policy being declined. 
What happened
Mr M applied for an insurance policy for his motorcycle using a price comparison site. Mr M 
went through the sales journey with One Call but his application for a policy was declined.  
Mr M complained and One Call responded and explained, following Mr Ms application, the 
details came through to their validation team who check over the cover to make sure all 
details were correct prior to the cover being set up. One Call said, their checks revealed     
Mr M had a previous policy cancelled which they werent informed about. And the checks 
also showed Mr M didnt reside at the address given. One Call said the insurer has the right 
not to accept any cover so, due to these reasons, the cover wasnt processed. Mr M says he 
didnt know about the previous policy being cancelled and, during the sales journey, he was 
never asked why hed chosen the address he did. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought One Call hadnt acted unfairly during 
the sales journey. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. When taking 
out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an insurance intermediary who is 
responsible for arranging, selling and administering the policy  often this will be a broker. In 
this case, the broker is One Call. The insurer is the business which underwrites the policy 
and its their decision on whether to offer cover or not. Its important to note however that the 
information required by an insurer to decide whether to provide cover is generally based on 
information collected by a broker during the sales process  and thats what has happened 
here. One Call have collected information and this has been used by the insurer to make a 
decision on whether to provide Mr M with an insurance policy. 
I understand Mr M is very upset and frustrated at what has happened here. He followed a 
sales journey with One Call and was given a quote  which he accepted. He then received 
notification to say his application had been declined. Mr M says he had to keep asking for 
the reasons and was then told he had a previous policy cancelled and he didnt reside at the 
address he had given. Mr M says he isnt aware of a policy being cancelled or previously 
being declined insurance. And, he says he wasnt asked to confirm what address he would 
be living at. 
Mr M says hes been left in a position now where he has to declare the insurer in this case 
has declined insurance  and this has made it difficult for him to shop around for a 
competitive policy. So, the resolution Mr M is looking for is to receive evidence that he has 
previously had insurance declined or a written statement from One Call or the insurer in this 
case to say, although theyve declined cover, theyve made an error and Mr M wont need to 
declare this when obtaining quotes in the future. Mr M also says he wants systems to be put 
in place to ensure this doesnt happen to any other customers. 
After Mr M submitted his application, I can see One Call carried out verification checks. This 
isnt uncommon or unusual and brokers will do this to ensure the information they have 
available from a range of databases validates the information a customer has provided. One 
Call have provided me with confidential business sensitive information showing the checks 
they carried out and the results. Im afraid I cant share this with Mr M because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied they do support the 
reasons theyve given to Mr M in their complaint response. 
Theres a range of checks and a tick or cross denotes whether the check has passed or 
failed. I acknowledge Mr M would like to know which previous insurer cancelled or declined a 
policy, but the information doesnt show this  only a record to say this has happened. In 
relation to the address, One Call have provided information showing what information feeds 
into the check and the result. I understand Mr M says he wasnt asked about where he will 
be living but we dont have the power to direct a business to change their processes or tell 
them which questions should be asked during a sales journey. I understand Mr M wants One 
Calls processes to be changed but, as mentioned, we dont have the power to direct a 
business to change their processes. 
Mr M says its not the refusal of the policy thats an issue here but, he feels, once a quote 
has been offered and accepted, a business shouldnt be able to refuse insurance without 
providing a reason and with proof. I can see Mr M asked One Call during a live chat why 
hed been refused insurance and they explained their validation team dont disclose this as it 
can lead to quote manipulation. Its clear from the transcript of the live chat that Mr M was 
frustrated at not being told the reasons for the decline. But, this information is commercially 
sensitive and can lead to quote manipulation if shared. I wish to reassure Mr M that Im 
absolutely not suggesting thats his intention here, but rather, Im explaining why its not 
unreasonable for a business to refuse to supply such information and the risk of sharing this 
with the wider public. 
I do understand Mr M says he gave an honest and truthful account of his details and feels 
its unfair that he should be allowed to accept a quote and then declined cover. I do 
acknowledge Mr Ms point but the decision to decline follows the verification checks carried 
out by One Call  and these were carried out after Mr M applied for the policy. A broker 
generally wont carry out these checks until after a customer has applied for a policy, so I 
cant say One Call have made an error here when their sales journey led to a quote. As 
mentioned above, I cant say One Call have made an error in how they processed the 
application and carried out their verification checks. They provided Mr M with the insurers 
decision and, while One Call arent responsible for the decision itself, the information shows 
they passed on the correct information to the insurer for them to make a decision. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes upset about not 
being given more specific information about the reason for declining cover. I acknowledge 
any customer will want to know more detail, particularly as Mr M says he has been honest 
and truthful when providing his details. I dont doubt that Mr M has been truthful, but the 
decline follows the verification checks carried out by One Call  and I cant say they 
processed this information unfairly or passed on incorrect information to the insurer. I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman