DRN-3017597
The complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has allowed fraudsters to transfer money out of her 
savings account. 
What happened
Ms L held savings in an ISA with HSBC. 
Over the space of two days, a caller spoke with HSBC and arranged for payments of 
£3,015.44 and £957.36 to be transferred out of Ms Ls ISA to another provider. A further 
£2,200 was then transferred into Ms Ls ISA from an account which was not her own, before 
a final payment of £2,200 was paid out of her ISA. 
Ms L spotted the transactions the following day and reported them to the banks fraud 
department. She hadnt authorised the transactions and was extremely concerned that 
fraudsters had been able to gain control of her money in this way. 
HSBC accepted Ms L hadnt authorised the transactions and arranged for her to be fully 
reimbursed a few days later. 
Ms L complained about the way HSBC had handled the matter. She explained shed initially 
had difficulties getting through to the bank to report the matter by phone. And then when 
shed been into branch, shed found the banks staff to be unhelpful and unsympathetic. She 
said the whole situation had made her feel very anxious and she wanted to understand how 
her money was able to be stolen in the first place. 
HSBC responded to her complaint and offered a total of £80 for the issues Ms L reported. As 
she was unhappy with the banks offer, Ms L referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. They noted HSBC had reimbursed Ms L for the theft 
of her money in the way shed asked it to, but they felt the bank should offer more 
compensation. Our investigator recommended HSBC should pay a total of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience Ms L experienced. 
Ms L didnt accept our investigators opinion. She felt the bank should pay a lot more 
compensation for the way itd treated her. HSBC neither accepted nor rejected our 
investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that Ms L was not the originator of the transactions she 
flagged to HSBCs fraud team. All parties accept these transactions werent authorised. And 
accordingly, the banks arranged for her to be fully reimbursed for the amount that was 
stolen in a way that Ms L has accepted.  
In addition to this, I can see the bank has arranged for some of Ms Ls security details to be 
reset, and its advised her of how the other party affected by these transactions can pursue 
their own concerns about whats happened here. HSBC has obligations to Ms L when shes 
the victim of fraud which are set out in BCOBS and the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
And mindful of what these obligations entail, Im satisfied the bank has acted fairly and 
reasonably in dealing with the immediate impact of the unauthorised transactions Ms L 
reported.   
Ms L remains unhappy with the bank because she feels it treated her badly when she 
reported the unauthorised transactions. She also feels HSBC owes her a full explanation of 
what has happened to her accounts. 
So what I need to decide here is whether HSBC has treated Ms L fairly in the course of 
investigating the unauthorised transactions. And if I find that its failed to treat her fairly, I 
must decide what should be done to put matters right. 
Ms L has provided a detailed account of the time she spent reporting this fraud to HSBC. I 
can see from her testimony that the whole situation made her feel extremely anxious, and 
that the hours she spent in HSBCs branch were particularly unpleasant. From reading what 
shes told us, its clear to me that this whole ordeal has caused Ms L a considerable amount 
of upset. 
HSBC has, to some extent, acknowledged this in its response to Ms Ls complaint. The 
banks final response offers an apology and some compensation to Ms L for the service it 
accepts has inconvenienced her. But it doesnt acknowledge the specific and upsetting 
circumstances that Ms L has reported in her complaint in any detail. 
HSBC has not refuted Ms Ls account of the difficulties she faced reaching it over the phone, 
or the hours she spent in its branch in considerable distress dealing with staff who werent 
sympathetic to her circumstances. In the absence of any counternarrative from HSBC, I find 
Ms Ls testimony to have been consistent and plausible and persuasive. Given the 
circumstances shed experienced I find it would have been fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
have behaved differently towards her, and by not doing so Im satisfied it caused her 
additional upset and distress
The bank has already made a small gesture to Ms L by way off offering £50 for her distress 
and inconvenience, plus a further £30 in recognition of her calls and parking costs 
associated with her branch visit. However none of the banks submissions persuade me that 
its fully understood or recognised the impact its service had on Ms L at this stressful and 
upsetting time. In the circumstances, I think a further award of £250 fairly addresses the 
trouble and upset the bank has caused Ms L in its handling of this matter. 
In saying this, Im conscious Ms L feels shes due considerably more than Im awarding her. 
But Im satisfied that £250, plus the amounts already paid to her, is a fair award, and is in 
keeping with similar cases considered by our service. Ive also kept in mind that it is the 
fraudster, not HSBC, who is the principal cause of the upset shes experienced. And that Ms 
L was only without her money for a few days before HSBC fully reimbursed her losses. 
Given whats happened, I can understand why for her own piece of mind, Ms L would want 
to understand more about how she came to be the victim of fraud here. But having reviewed 
HSBCs notes on the fraud she reported, Im not sure what more it could reasonably tell her 
that she doesnt already know. It isnt known how or why Ms L was targeted by a fraudster. Just that theyd acquired enough 
of her personal information to bypass HSBCs security and arrange transactions on her 
behalf. As to where the money was sent to, it wouldnt be possible for HSBC to share the 
identity of the accountholder who received Ms Ls money. So I think HSBC has told Ms L 
what it reasonably could about its fraud investigation. I wont be requiring the bank to do 
more than it already has done in this regard. 
It is, in my view, enough in this case that HSBC pays the compensation Ive outlined above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Ms L the sum of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman