DRN-3417210
The complaint
Mrs V complains about the management of her pension savings by Scottish Widows Limited. 
In particular she has complained that Scottish Widows has failed to provide her with online 
access to information about the value of her pension savings. And she says that the 
investment performance has been poor, with no annual bonusses having been added for a 
large number of years.
What happened
Mrs V started a personal pension plan with Scottish Widows in 1991. That plan was a 
conventional with-profits arrangement that, if all premiums were paid to the agreed 
retirement date, would provide a guaranteed cash benefit of £4,783. The policy would also 
benefit from non-guaranteed bonusses that could be added annually by Scottish Widows, 
and a discretionary final bonus that could be paid when the benefits were taken. Mrs V 
would also benefit from a guaranteed annuity rate when she reached the agreed retirement 
age. In 1995 Mrs V stopped paying contributions to the policy. So at that time she was told 
that the guaranteed cash benefit had been reduced to £1,024.
In May 2020 Mrs V attempted to obtain information about her pension savings using 
Scottish Widows online systems. She found that she was unable to access her policy and 
asked the business for assistance. Initially Mrs V was told that she could get the information 
she required by accessing a different online system. But later Scottish Widows confirmed to 
her that the age of her pension policy meant that no online access was possible. 
Scottish Widows paid Mrs V £200 for the incorrect information it had initially given to her 
about online access and the time it had taken to deal with her complaint.
Mrs V was unhappy with Scottish Widows response, and so brought her complaint to us. 
And at that time she additionally complained about the performance of her pension 
investments over the preceding years. Although Scottish Widows wasnt given the 
opportunity to deal with that aspect of Mrs Vs complaint before it was brought to us, it 
doesnt appear to have objected to us considering it as part of this complaint.
Both aspects of Mrs Vs complaint have been assessed by one of our investigators. He 
noted that Scottish Widows was at liberty to decide whether or not to offer online servicing to 
Mrs Vs pension plan  and particularly since that offering wasnt something it had agreed to 
provide when the plan had first been taken. And he didnt think that Scottish Widows had 
treated Mrs V unfairly in the way it had managed the with-profits investments. So he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs V didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs V and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I want to start this decision by saying that I dont think it is unreasonable for Mrs V to expect 
to manage her pension investments via an online portal. Today, the overwhelming majority 
of our financial relationships can be managed in that way. But Im sorry to have to tell her 
that I dont think Scottish Widows is doing anything wrong by not providing her with online 
access.
Mrs Vs pension plan is governed by a series of terms and conditions. Those set out the 
responsibilities of both parties, and how Scottish Widows should operate the policy. Although 
I havent seen a full copy of the relevant terms for Mrs Vs plan, my experience suggests 
they would not set out a requirement for Scottish Widows to provide her with the online 
access that she is seeking. Her pension plan was taken out many years before online 
access became the norm, or even something that was routinely offered. So that would mean 
that Scottish Widows is relatively free to determine what information (if any) it wishes to 
provide on the policy via its online channels.
Mrs V is one of many customers of Scottish Widows who will hold its pension products. 
Scottish Widows needs to balance the reporting requirements of its whole customer base, 
with the costs and practicalities of providing that information. It isnt always logistically 
possible, or cost effective, for Scottish Widows to provide online reporting to meet each of its 
customers needs, especially where the pension products are no longer being actively sold.
Ultimately it is for Scottish Widows to decide what information it wishes to provide, and in 
what format. And it would be for the FCA to intervene should it consider that the general 
service being provided by Scottish Widows was unsatisfactory, or the information it 
presented was incorrect or misleading.
In terms of deciding Mrs Vs specific complaint I need to consider whether Scottish Widows 
is treating her fairly in relation to its other customers holding similar legacy products, and 
what it has agreed to provide for her via the terms and conditions of her pension policy. 
I havent seen anything that makes me think Scottish Widows is failing to provide Mrs V with 
something that she is entitled to receive. Whilst the online access might be helpful for Mrs V, 
in her particular circumstances, it doesnt seem to me that Scottish Widows is required to 
provide that access to her. And Scottish Widows has explained to Mrs V that it is happy to 
provide the information she requires via its telephone helpline, via the online contact form on 
its website, or if she submits a request in writing. So I dont think that this part of Mrs Vs 
complaint should be upheld.
 
I will now turn to the part of Mrs Vs complaint relating to the investment performance of her 
pension savings. As I said earlier, Mrs Vs pension savings are invested in a with-profits arrangement. When the investment was first taken Scottish Widows provided Mrs V with a 
guaranteed value for her pension savings when she reached the agreed retirement date 
providing she made all the agreed contributions. But Mrs V stopped making those 
contributions in 1995 so the guaranteed value was reduced. And Mrs Vs policy might also 
benefit from non-guaranteed bonusses that could be added annually by Scottish Widows, 
and a discretionary final bonus that could be paid when the benefits were taken.
When it set the guaranteed value Scottish Widows needed to make a series of assumptions 
about things such as investment returns and mortality rates. And over the years some of 
those assumptions might turn out to be either overly optimistic or pessimistic. So, each year 
Scottish Widows would consider whether the current value of the underlying investments 
would merit any increase to the guaranteed value that had been agreed at the outset  and 
that was reflected in the addition of annual guaranteed bonusses.
I can see that, until 2003, annual bonusses had been added to Mrs Vs pension savings. But 
since then no further bonusses have been added. Mrs V says that is reflective of poor 
investment management of her plan by Scottish Widows, and its mismanagement. But 
I dont agree.
Although bonuses will be partly based on gains within the with-profits fund, it should be 
remembered that a with-profits fund doesnt function in the same way as other investment 
funds. A with-profits fund employs smoothing to potentially allow bonuses to be added when 
markets are underperforming. They also include guarantees that have to be met (such as 
accrued bonuses or guaranteed annuity rates) when investments are cashed in. For these 
reasons, the performance of a with-profits fund doesn't necessarily reflect the current 
performance of the stock market. It's for the product provider to decide what the bonus 
should be. And since it is a commercial decision by the product provider how much the 
bonus should be its not generally appropriate for me to be able to say that a bonus should 
be different from that which has been added.
It seems to me that Scottish Widows is operating the pension investments in line with the 
terms and conditions that it agreed with Mrs V at the outset. Whilst I appreciate that Mrs V is 
disappointed with the recent growth of those pension savings I cannot reasonably conclude 
that this is as a result of something that Scottish Widows has done, or is doing, wrong. 
I appreciate that the value of the guaranteed annuity rate that Mrs V enjoys on her policy 
might make it unattractive for her to move her pension savings to an alternative investment 
product or provider, but that option does remain open to her.
There are a couple of other matters that Mrs V has raised whilst we have been considering 
her complaint that I think it would be helpful to comment on.
As I said earlier Mrs V stopped making her contributions to the policy in 1995. She has 
suggested that, at retirement, she might wish to make a single additional contribution to 
replace those that have been missed. And her understanding is that would provide her with 
the guaranteed annuity rate on the total amount of her contributions  both those before 
1995 and the additional contribution. Scottish Widows has said it doesnt agree that is the 
case  it says the guaranteed annuity rate will only apply to the original contributions.
This issue hasnt yet arisen  but I can understand why Mrs V would want some clarity on 
the situation before she decides whether to make any final contribution to her policy. But in 
the first instance she would need to discuss the matter with Scottish Widows and get its 
formal answer. And then at that time, if she remains unhappy with what Scottish Widows has 
said, she could refer an additional complaint to us.Mrs V has also asked that we take account of a recent court case concerning the 
equalisation of guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) benefits. As a starting point I should 
point out that my decision is not bound by any decisions of the Courts  although I will take 
any findings into account, I am required to decide complaints on the basis of what I think is 
fair and reasonable.
However, I think Mrs V has confused the subject matter of the recent Court judgement with 
her situation. The Court judgement related to GMP benefits. Those arise from an 
occupational pension scheme contracting out of the State Earning Related Pension Scheme. 
That isnt the case here  Mrs Vs pension savings arise from her own contributions. And 
whilst it is entirely correct that her pension policy offers her valuable guarantees  in the form 
of the guaranteed annuity rate  those are very different from the guarantees required to 
support the payment of a GMP benefit.
I appreciate that my decision on this complaint will be disappointing for Mrs V. But, in 
summary I dont think that I can reasonably require Scottish Widows to offer her online 
servicing or online information on her pension policy. And I cannot reasonably conclude that 
Scottish Widows has failed to manage her pension investments in a fair manner. So I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman