DRN-3221731
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi) has dealt 
with a claim he made under section 75 (s.75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
In April 2014 Mr T entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system (the system) 
from a supplier. Mr T paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Mitsubishi, 
which was repayable over ten years. 
Mr T engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which wrote to Mitsubishi in 
September 2020 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for 
consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor (Mitsubishi) is jointly and 
severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier  subject to certain considerations being met. 
Mr Ts claim explained that he was told the system would be self-funding, in that it would pay 
for itself through the benefits it provided. Those benefits are through Feed-In Tariff (FIT) 
payments and electricity savings (from using electricity generated by the system rather than 
buying it from an energy supplier). The CMC says the benefits over one year only cover 
three monthly loan repayments and so the system was misrepresented to Mr T  inducing 
him to purchase the system. 
Mitsubishi responded to say that Mr Ts claim was made too late, since the time limits set out 
in the Limitation Act 1980 meant that the supplier would have no liability for any 
misrepresentation during the sale of the system  and as such nor would Mitsubishi. 
However, it also said that it felt the system was not misrepresented in any case. 
Unhappy with Mitsubishis response, Mr T raised a complaint and referred the matter to this 
Service to look into. Mitsubishi then arranged for £300 to be credited to Mr Ts account, as a 
gesture of goodwill, to recognise any inconvenience and confusion caused by it also 
commenting on the merits of the claim in its initial response while saying the claim was made 
out of time. 
One of our investigators looked what had happened and concluded that Mitsubishi had not 
acted unfairly by rejecting Mr Ts s.75 claim and said its offer of compensation was fair. 
The CMC disagreed. It said that section 14 (s.14) of the Limitation Act provided more time to 
make the claim. And since Mr T was unaware he had a reason to claim until after he 
contacted the CMC the claim was made in time. 
Our investigator wasnt able to resolve the matter, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Mitsubishi has treated Mr T fairly in its response to 
his s.75 claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my 
decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice, and the facts of Mr Ts 
complaint. In this decision Ill refer to those that I consider to be most central to my 
conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr Ts complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So, Mitsubishi must have treated Mr T fairly when it declined his s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Mitsubishi gave for declining Mr Ts claim was that it was made outside of the 
relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr Ts rights to claim against Mitsubishi under s.75 are on 
the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr T says the benefits of the system were the inducement that made him make 
the purchase. But his s.75 claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so 
he entered a contract which wasnt the value for money he expected. Mr T says were it not 
for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then he wouldnt have entered the 
contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Mr Ts financial loss occurred when he paid for the system using a fixed sum loan 
agreement from Mitsubishi, which meant he owed money to Mitsubishi. This was in April 
2014. So, he had until April 2020 to make the claim. Mr T raised his claim with Mitsubishi in September 2020 which is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr Ts claim against Mitsubishi is under 
s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Mitsubishi step into the shoes of 
the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr Ts claim as Ive already explained he raised his claim 
with Mitsubishi over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage suffered. 
So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Mr T knew, or ought to have 
known, that he had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. 
I think the latest that Mr T ought to have known he had a claim for misrepresentation was 
about one year after installation of the system. By that time, he would have access to a full 
years worth of FIT statements and electricity bills, from which he could work out the benefits 
of the system and compare this to the loan repayments. The CMC has pointed out that the 
FIT payments only covered three months repayments and the electricity savings were 
minimal. With this in mind, s.14 would not provide additional time for Mr T to make his claim. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Mitsubishi has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr Ts s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Mitsubishi) has expired under the 
Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
Im satisfied Mitsubishi has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
Mitsubishi has credited Mr Ts account with £300 compensation to recognise any 
inconvenience and confusion caused by it commenting on the merits of the claim while also 
saying it was made out of time. I think that was fair. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr T was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask Mitsubishi to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T, but I must assure him Ive considered everything impartially. My final decision
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plcs response to the claim was 
reasonable, and its offer of compensation was fair. 
If it hasnt already done so, Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should credit Mr Ts loan account 
with the £300 compensation it offered him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman