DRN-2562937
The complaint
Mr T complains that he didnt receive his Ecology Building Society voting papers before the 
Annual General Meeting.
What happened
Mr T says he didnt receive the Annual General Meeting (AGM) voting papers in time to 
allow him to use his vote in 2020. He would like an apology for what took place and would 
like Ecology to pay a £100 gesture of goodwill offer. Mr T is concerned he was denied his 
right to vote.
Ecology says it uses a third-party company to print and send the AGM papers. It says it has 
checked its records and says Mr Ts details are correct and he was sent the papers. Ecology 
says it has no record of the papers being returned to it and isnt responsible for the safe 
delivery of the mail.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Ecology had provided evidence the AGM papers had been sent and it 
wasnt our role to tell it which company it uses for the production and mailing of the papers.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and maintains he has had no issue with other mail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly he 
feels about whats taken place. I accept Mr T was unable to exercise his voting rights.
Im satisfied that Ecology has fairly investigated Mr Ts complaint and carried out appropriate 
checks with the third-party business that produced and sent the AGM papers. And that it has 
provided evidence that Mr T was sent the correct AGM papers. It follows that I cant fairly 
hold Ecology responsible for Mr T receiving the AGM papers late. And of course, Ecology 
isnt responsible for the safe delivery of the mail.
I appreciate Mr T says he hasnt had any issue with his mail or the company responsible for 
the delivery of his mail. And I accept in those circumstances there will be unanswered 
questions about what took place and why Mr Ts mail was delayed.
I find its up to Ecology to decide which company it uses for the production and sending of 
the AGM documents when it exercises its commercial judgement and is not something, I can 
fairly interfere in. 
Overall, I cant fairly conclude that Ecology has made a mistake or acted unfairly and for the 
reasons I have explained am satisfied its fairly investigated Mr Ts complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman