DRN-3774506
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handling and 
settlement of their water damage claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a loss assessor G. But I will refer to Mr and Mrs S 
throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S contacted Lloyds to make a water damage claim. As they already had a 
contractor on site working to deal with the leak Lloyds agreed to Mr and Mrs S using this 
contractor to deal with the trace and access issue and stop the leak. Once that had been 
dealt with Lloyds would then appoint its own experts to deal with the rest of the claim. Once 
it was confirmed that the leak was fixed Lloyds did appoint experts to strip out and dry the 
property and appointed a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to look after all aspects of the 
claim. At this stage Mr and Mrs S again asked to use their own contractor for the stripping 
and drying process and Lloyds agreed.
The estimate for the stripping and drying was agreed at a maximum cost of £1,761.50 and 
settled. Lloyds pointed out this was the limit for this work it would pay. It said there wasnt 
any discussion about any further or extra work on this point. Lloyds said that no justification 
for any extra work had been produced and so there would be no further payments for this.
Later, Mr and Mrs S provided a quote for the full reinstatement work at £100,424.21 and said 
they wanted to use their own contractor to do all the repair work. Lloyds didnt accept this. It 
said that the PCC would need to inspect and review the details. One of the issues that arose 
at this point was the claim for damage to the kitchen as Lloyds said this hadnt been raised 
earlier in the claim discussions.
There was also a dispute about the strip out work around the ground floor shower. Lloyds 
said the agreement was for a partial strip out, but the work undertaken was then far more 
comprehensive. In view of the disagreement the PCC asked for evidence to validate the 
claim, but no further detail was provided. Lloyds also declined to pay for the damage to the 
kitchen. All the units had been disposed of without any photos or evidence of damage. The 
PCC pointed out that this evidence had been requested on many occasions.
The PCC reviewed the reinstatement costs and maintained the amount was too high. As an 
example, Lloyds highlighted the socket removal and refit would be charged by its contractor 
at less than £5 but Mr and Mrs Ss contractor quoted almost £80. They also noted the cost to 
remove and refit bi-fold doors seemed to be the same as it would cost for a brand new 
replacement. Also, there was a lot of work the PCC said was unnecessary. This included the 
removal of a parquet floor, re-screeding a floor, re-skimming all walls, relocating the 
broadband, and removing and refitting shutters.
There was a figure included in Mr and Mrs Ss quote for a full bathroom replacement. Lloyds 
pointed out this was without any costs breakdown and the PCC confirmed only the shower 
enclosure was damaged and so it was the only item that it would settle a claim for.
Lloyds offered to settle the claim based on the quote produced by its own contractors of 
£84,336.00. G on behalf of Mr and Mrs S said this figure was arbitrary. He said as 
Mr and Mrs S were using their own contractors Lloyds had to settle their costs in full and 
said this was a standard approach this service would take to settlement. In view of this 
Lloyds again offered its own contractors to do the work so it could make sure the work was 
done for the amount it had offered. This was declined by Mr and Mrs L as their own 
contractors could start the next week whereas Lloyds contractors wouldnt be able to start for 
a few more weeks.
A claim was made for alternative accommodation due to the lack of cooking facilities and a 
downstairs toilet. G suggested an independent surveyor be brought in, but the PCC didnt 
agree and maintained that the claim was straightforward and there was no need for an 
independent surveyor.
A debate followed between the parties over a previous claim and Mr and Mrs S provided 
proof that the work required following that previous claim had all been resolved prior to this 
claim.
Lloyds maintain that it continued throughout to ask for evidence, for explanations and for 
further claim details but very little was forthcoming. Where some extra details were provided 
in relation to tiles under base units Lloyds agreed to consider this cost. Despite the kitchen 
cost being excluded Lloyds said it was still willing to undertake a further joint site inspection 
to try and agree a scope of works.
Mr and Mrs S said Lloyds should pay the market rate for their repair work and that meant 
they were still owed a further £19,400 plus a disturbance allowance for their lack of facilities 
in their home during the claim. Mr and Mrs S said Lloyds had been unprofessional and there 
had been long delays. Mr and Mrs S said the way they had been treated had an impact on 
their mental health and that Lloyds hadnt taken into account their needs with a young family. 
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted the amounts had been set for the 
strip out and drying and Lloyds had been clear this was the limit it would pay. Our 
investigator said Lloyds had made Mr and Mrs S aware that they needed evidence and 
photos of any claim damage. She felt the policy was clear regarding the requirements on 
policyholders. Our investigator also looked at the timeline of the claim provided by Lloyds 
and said it had acted fairly and reasonably throughout and hadnt caused long delays.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to confirm and reassure all parties that I have read all the information in the file. So, 
even if I havent referred to it here all the details have been reviewed and considered. But 
Ive focused on what I think are the key areas of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have said that the higher amount should be paid out as thats the cost through 
their own contractors. G on their behalf said this in line with the approach of this service.
Lloyds have provided the scope of works, the photos of damage taken by the PCC and 
details of how it has handled the claim throughout.In terms of how the claim would be handled and what would be paid for I think Lloyds have 
been clear throughout (£84,336.00). At points when Mr and Mrs S have said they didnt want 
to use Lloyds contractors Lloyds have agreed they can use their own.
Unfortunately, theres always an element of disruption following such a claim when it comes 
to putting matters right. But I dont think the lead in times for using Lloyds contractors were 
unreasonable. So, although Mr and Mrs S decided that they had to use their own 
contractors, who were available sooner, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly here.
Lloyds offered its own contractors and when Mr and Mrs S asked if they could use their own 
Lloyds accepted this. When Mr and Mrs S became aware that their own contractor would be 
looking for higher costs and asked Lloyds, it again confirmed due to cost that it could offer 
Mr and Mrs S the use of the Lloyds contractors. Lloyds made its position clear that it didnt 
accept all of the costs from Mr and Mrs Ss contractor and said some of the costs were 
excessive and some of the work hadnt been agreed. It was clear that all the work linked to 
the claim could be done by Lloyds contractor for the amount it had agreed. I think this is the 
important point. If Lloyds hadnt been willing to offer its own contractor then perhaps there 
may have been some relevance to the argument about the approach of this service. Lloyds 
was willing to do the work, the lead in time wasnt unreasonable for its own contractor, some 
of the work wasnt linked to the claim, and some of the costs were considered excessive. In 
such circumstances Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable and is in line with the approach of 
this service.
Lloyds had also said at points throughout the claim that it was willing to consider further 
evidence and I think it actively encouraged Mr and Mrs S to provide such details so it could 
discuss and update the claim details. I cant see that option was used. Instead the responses 
said the higher costs should be settled and this service would agree with that. I dont think 
Lloyds made unfair or unreasonable requests and it showed it would revise the claim costs if 
suitable evidence was produced. For example, Lloyds did this when details were provided 
about the tiles under the base units  it confirmed it was willing to consider this as an 
additional cost.
Lloyds werent passed details of extra works, issues that came up hadnt been discussed 
and Lloyds pointed out it didnt think some of the work noted by Mr and Mrs S contractors 
was required. For example, it explained that the damp on the other side of the kitchen wall 
was entirely separate to the kitchen and it explained why the construction of the wall meant 
there was no reason for any work to be undertaken in the kitchen. No evidence was put 
forward to point out why this was directly linked to the claim. So, I think Lloyds acted 
reasonably when it said it wasnt willing to accept the extra work.
I cant see that Lloyds have acted unprofessionally. I cant see that its handling and 
administration of the claim has been unfair or unreasonable. I think it has acted in line with 
the policy wording and has asked for and considered evidence reasonably. I dont think 
Lloyds has delayed the claim unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
John QuinlanOmbudsman