DRN-3797102
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as First Direct Bank) didnt do enough to 
protect him when he was the victim of a crypto investment scam. 
Mr S is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr S throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In April 2020 Mr S made an online enquiry about investing in crypto. He said hed seen 
many celebrity endorsements for such investments online and was keen to learn more about 
how it worked. Mr S was contacted by a representative of an investment company (S). The 
representative (the scammer) told Mr S that he would set up a trading account via a 
legitimate international crypto exchange platform (C) and trade on his behalf.
Mr S provided the scammer with identification documents to open the trading account and 
was provided with a password to access the account. 
On 13 April 2020 Mr S made a debit card payment of £4,000 from his First Direct account to 
C. Mr S said the scammer helped him do this with a remote access software device. 
Confident the initial investment was doing well; Mr S made another debit card payment to C 
on 24 April 2020 for £5,000. First Direct declined this payment, but on speaking to Mr S, the 
payment was processed. 
On 12 May 2020 Mr S withdrew £2,440 from his trading account and credited this to his First 
Direct account. On 15 May 2020 he made two debit card payments to C for £10,000 each.
Reassured by the ability to withdraw his funds and pressurised by the scammer to invest 
more, Mr S made another two debit card payments for £10,000 each on 22 May 2020. First 
Direct declined the first £10,000. Mr S spoke to First Direct and the two payments were 
processed. 
Mr S made another two debit card payments of £5,000 on 2 June 2020. Again, First Direct 
declined the first payment and spoke to Mr S. Happy with the responses Mr S provided, First 
Direct processed the two £5,000 payments. 
Shortly after this, the trading account was deactivated, and Mr S said he was unable to get 
hold of the scammer or access any of his money. He realised hed been the victim of a 
scam. Thinking there was no means of getting his money back, Mr S didnt contact First 
Direct at that time.
Mr S contacted First Direct about the scam in August 2021. By that time, hed been the 
victim of a second crypto investment scam (between November 2020 and January 2021) 
and had been advised by his representative about possible options to get his money back. 
First Direct told Mr S that given the passing of time, the Visa chargeback rules didnt apply, 
and so it was unable to help get the money back hed lost between April and June 2020. 
Mr S then raised a complaint. 
First Direct considered Mr Ss complaint in December 2021. It repeated that the Visa 
chargeback rules were unlikely to apply, but invited Mr S to provide some information to 
allow this to be fully considered. No further information seems to have been provided by 
Mr S. 
First Direct said it had carried out fraud checks during the transactions made in 2020 and 
spoken to Mr S. And so thought it had done enough to protect him. 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He didnt think First Direct had asked probing enough questions when it spoke 
to him about the payments. So, it didnt do enough to protect him.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought First 
Direct couldve done more to protect Mr S, but that given the limited information about S 
and Mr Ss appetite for risk, she didnt think any further intervention by First Direct wouldve 
resulted in the scam being uncovered. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. He said there was 
information available to him at the time about S that if First Direct had directed him to, the 
scam wouldve been uncovered. And if First Direct had asked appropriate questions, it would 
have uncovered the use of remote software and celebrity endorsements  and the other 
tactics used by the scammer. Mr S said these were all common hallmarks of a scam  and 
First Direct, as the experts, wouldve alerted Mr S to the scam if its line of questioning had 
been sufficient to have uncovered this information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mr S was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
hes been the victim of a scam and has lost a considerable amount of money as a result. I 
can understand why hed want to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I need to 
decide whether First Direct can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mr Ss loss. 
Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to 
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment 
Services Regulations. These regulations explain that a payment can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. This is important because, generally speaking, account holders 
will be liable for payments theyve authorised, and banks will be liable for unauthorised 
payments. Ive taken this into account when considering whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The law also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing the payment instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate the customers funds. As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the 
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if First Direct acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mr S when he made the debit card payments, specifically whether it 
shouldve done more than it did before processing the payments  and if it had, would that 
have made a difference. I also need to decide if First Direct ought to have done more than it 
has already done to recover the funds after Mr S reported the scam. 
Its not in dispute that the debit card payments were made by Mr S. So, the transactions he 
made were authorised payments, even though he was the victim of a sophisticated crypto 
investment scam. Although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  But I now need to consider if First Direct 
couldve done more before processing the payments.
I dont believe the first payment for £4,000 made on 13 April 2020 was sufficiently unusual to 
have alerted First Direct to the possibility of a fraud or scam. While I accept it is larger than 
other payments made on Mr Ss account in the previous 12 months, its not an unusually 
large amount in more general terms, and I must bear in mind that its not uncommon for 
people to make large one-off payments to a new beneficiary in a normal operating bank 
account. And so, I dont think First Direct acted unreasonably here.
Mr S made a payment for £5,000, to the same new beneficiary (C), on 24 April 2020. This 
payment was declined. So, Mr S telephoned First Direct on 24 April 2020 to get the payment 
released.
Having listened to the call, Mr S explains that he has tried to make the £5,000 payment but 
the transaction was showing as not successful. First Direct located the payment and 
confirmed to Mr S that its being made to C. It said the payment flagged as a fraud referral 
and the operator puts Mr S on hold whilst she speaks to the fraud detection team. She then 
tells Mr S the fraud team has lifted the block and the payment can be remade.
Where there is interaction between a bank and its customer in relation to a payment, wed 
expect the bank to take this opportunity to find out more about the nature of that payment. 
But First Direct asked no questions at all at this stage. It simply removed the block and 
advised Mr S to remake the payment. 
Mr S was then able to make two further payments to C for £10,000 each on 15 May 2020. 
First Direct didnt flag either of these payments as suspicious. 
First Direct spoke to Mr S on two further occasions about payments to C. On 22 May 2020 
Mr S called First Direct to say the £10,000 payment had declined and hed been asked to 
call the fraud team. He told First Direct that he wanted to make two payments for £10,000 in 
close succession. First Direct asked what the payments were for, and Mr S said it was for 
crypto. First Direct explained the fraud team was having a problem with its systems for 
removing blocks on cards and would call Mr S back once this was resolved.  
During the next telephone call on 22 May 2020, First Direct confirmed again the payments 
were for C and asked Mr S if it was him making the transactions and that hed not been 
asked to make the payments out of the blue. Mr S confirmed it was him and was what he wanted to do. First Direct asked if Mr S had done his homework, to which he said he had, 
and confirmed all the previous transactions to C had been made by him. The payments 
were released. 
Mr S and First Direct spoke again on 2 June 2020 after more payments were declined. He 
confirmed he was making two £5,000 payments with his debit card, one to C and one to 
another crypto exchange (which appears to be part of C). Mr S confirmed hed made 
payments before and that these were for trading.  First Direct asked Mr S if hed checked if 
the companies he was paying were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as if 
not, he might not get his money back. Mr S confirmed hed done his checks.  
First Direct said extra checks had to be carried out when crypto is involved because of the 
associated risks. It said it could see from Mr Ss account history that hed traded with these 
companies before, so was aware of the risks. Mr S confirmed that to be the case. First Direct 
marked the payments as genuine.  
Ive thought carefully about whether First Direct asked the right questions during its 
interactions with Mr S to fully understand the nature of the transactions he was trying to 
make. And I do think it couldve done more. 
First Direct knew Mr S was trying to pay C  a crypto exchange platform. But during none of 
the conversations were questions specific to crypto investment scams asked. By January 
2019 we think firms had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these 
scams work  including that the consumer often buys crypto from a legitimate firm, but under 
the advice of another company acting as a form of broker or trader (in many cases the 
scammer) - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. 
Whilst its not up to us to dictate which questions firms should ask, First Direct couldve, for 
example, asked how Mr S had been contacted, whether there was a broker or account 
manager helping him in the background, whether he had a trading account, whether hed 
been able to successfully withdraw requested amounts from his trading platform, whether 
the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual, advertised on social media 
etc. These are typical features of crypto scams.
In the 22 May 2020 telephone call, First Direct asked Mr S if someone had asked him to 
make the payment  but it didnt refer to trading accounts or contact he might have had from 
a broker. Nor did it ask whether anyone had taken control of his computer. 
During all telephone calls, First Directs focus was very much on whether Mr S was making 
the payments himself, and whether hed done his checks, including with the FCA. I dont 
consider these to be relevant to potential crypto investment scams unless there is of course 
an existing warning about the crypto exchange or the broker (which in this case there was 
not). Theres often no dispute that the payee (the crypto exchange) is legitimate and in the 
business of providing crypto, so carrying out further checks would likely uncover just that. 
The heart of the scam is understanding whether anyone is in the background assisting the 
customer and whether anyone has access to his crypto and explaining the risks involved 
with that. Customers will usually be making the payments themselves, but on the instruction 
of the broker  and sometimes with the broker having access to their devices.  
First Direct are the experts here  and so shouldve known that it is often the case a 
legitimate crypto exchange is used in the scam process to make it look more convincing and 
harder to detect. Ultimately C was a legitimate company. But despite First Direct saying 
there are risks attached to crypto investments, the line of questioning it used didnt draw out 
the involvement of S  the scammer  or other common hallmarks of crypto investment 
scams. Ive thought next about what answers Mr S was likely to have given if First Direct had asked 
more specific questions. Mr S wasnt given a cover story by the scammer and hadnt 
invested in crypto before. So, with that in mind, if First Direct had asked Mr S if anyone was 
helping him or had taken over his devices, I think the presence of S and the use of remote 
access software would more than likely have come to light. This ought to have been a 
concern to First Direct, and Id have expected it to strongly reiterate to Mr S the need to 
check that the investment was legitimate.
But I must now think about whether this wouldve made a difference and prevented Mr Ss 
loss. I can tell from all the conversations between Mr S and First Direct that he was 
completely caught up in the scam. He spoke with confidence about what he was doing and 
was very keen for the payments to be processed without further delay. 
And whilst Mr S was contacted by S, this was after hed enquired about investing in crypto  
and so he wasnt contacted out of the blue or pressured into investing  it had been his 
choice. 
Mr S also told First Direct that hed done his homework and checks  which may or may 
have been the case. But this suggests to me a determination on the part of Mr S for the 
payments to be processed without him wanting to do any more checks, despite being told by 
First Direct  albeit in quite general terms - about risks associated with crypto investment. 
There were also no warnings on the FCA register about S at the time of the scam. So, even 
if Mr S had checked, hes unlikely to have found anything of concern to support the credibility 
of any negative reviews on consumer websites. 
Im also mindful that Mr S was able to access returns of his investment (£2,440), which again 
played a part in him believing the investment to be genuine. He was also able to access his 
trading account and see how his investment was performing after each payment was made.  
So, to his mind, there was nothing obvious to be concerned about when he spoke to First 
Direct. 
And I must also bear in mind that Mr S was comfortable to invest in crypto again in late 2020 
 despite already losing a considerable amount of money through his dealings with S and 
having made no attempt to recover what hed lost at the time, despite having the 
understanding that hed fallen victim to a scam. This leads me to think Mr S was comfortable 
taking financial risks despite any warnings First Direct had given. 
All this suggests to me that its more likely than not Mr S wouldve proceeded with the 
transactions here  even if First Direct had done more to alert him that the investment had all 
the hallmarks of a scam. I think it wouldve taken something more credible, like regulator 
warnings about S, to have made Mr S pause and think more about his decision to invest. 
And in the absence of such warnings, I dont think a better warning from First Direct wouldve 
made Mr S do anything differently. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr S has been the victim of a 
sophisticated crypto investment scam. And I think First Direct couldve done more to try and 
protect him. But I think this is unlikely to have made a difference. Mr S was unfortunately 
completely caught up in the scam and had no reason to question it at that time. And so, I 
cant say further action by First Direct wouldve prevented Mr Ss loss. 
That said, Id still expect First Direct to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds. And 
so, Ive considered whether it was fair to decline Mr Ss Visa chargeback claim. First Direct was right to say Mr S was out of time to make a claim as a claim wouldve 
needed to have been raised within 120 days of the dates of the transaction. In this case, 
Mr S contacted First Direct more than 120 days after hed made all of his payments. So, it 
was correct to say Mr S was too late for it to consider Visa chargeback claims. 
But another issue is that C was a legitimate company and so the service Mr S was paying 
for  purchasing the crypto  was provided. Mr Ss dispute was with S not C, and as C 
provided the service he paid it for, its unlikely a Visa chargeback claim wouldve been 
successful, even if Mr S had raised his claim on time. And so, cant say First Direct couldve 
done anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman