DRN-4482741
The complaint
Mr M complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
mis-sold him a Tradesman insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
In 2013, Mr M was visited by an appointed representative (AR) of NFU to discuss his 
insurance needs. The AR advised Mr M to take out a Tradesman insurance policy, which 
provided a range of benefits, including group personal accident insurance. This policy was 
underwritten by NFU in its capacity as an insurer. Mr M accepted the ARs recommendations 
and a policy was set-up. The policy renewed each year.
Unfortunately, in 2022, Mr M had a motorcycle accident whilst riding on the road. And so he 
made a claim on the personal accident cover for his lost income. But NFU, in its capacity as 
the insurer, turned down Mr Ms claim because the policy specifically excluded claims for 
motorcycling unless it was for agricultural purposes on a policyholders own land.
Mr M was unhappy with NFUs decision to turn down his claim. And he felt the policy had 
been mis-sold to him by NFUs AR. Thats because he said the AR had told him hed be 
covered for riding his motorcycle on the road  but he wouldnt be covered if he rode his 
motorbike for professional sport. He asked us to look into his complaints.
Our service considered a complaint about the NFUs decision to decline the claim 
separately.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the policy should be upheld. She 
felt that as NFUs AR had advised Mr M to take out the policy, it needed to check it met his 
needs. She thought Mr Ms recollections about the sale were plausible and persuasive. So 
she considered Mr M likely had been told hed be covered for riding on the road. 
She noted that once Mr M learned he wasnt covered for motorcycling, hed paid NFU an 
additional premium for motorcycling cover to be added. The option to add-on this cover had 
been available to Mr M at the time hed taken out the policy.
The investigator concluded that much of the policy appeared suitable for Mr Ms needs. But 
given his need for motorcycle cover, she thought the overall recommendation hadnt been 
suitable. Instead, she thought if Mr M had known hed need to pay extra for motorcycling 
cover, hed have paid the additional premium since 2013. And if hed done so, his claim for 
lost income would have been paid. 
Therefore, she felt the fair outcome to Mr Ms complaint would be for NFU to assess Mr Ms 
claim as if the additional cover had been in place since inception. If the claim was otherwise 
payable, the investigator thought NFU would be entitled to deduct the additional premiums it 
would have charged Mr M for the motorcycle cover. She also felt NFU should pay Mr M £200 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience its ARs actions had caused him.
NFU disagreed. It said there was no evidence on file that its AR had known Mr M had a 
motorbike or that any guidance was given about the personal accident cover. So it follows 
that the AR wouldnt have known to specifically highlight the motorcycling exclusion. It said 
there were a number of exclusions under the personal accident cover and it wouldnt expect 
an adviser to highlight each one. It stated it understood that when there was a discrepancy 
about what had happened, it should rely on the available documentation. It considered that 
in this case, the documentation made it very clear that motorcycle accidents arent covered. 
It said Mr M took out the policy to protect his business needs, not his mobility.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and Ill explain 
why.
It appears that NFU now accepts that its AR advised Mr M to take out the Tradesman policy. 
The post-sale documentation makes it clear that the AR carried out an assessment of Mr Ms 
demands and needs and made a recommendation based on that assessment. That means 
that NFUs AR needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr M. And NFU also 
needed to provide Mr M with enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy so that he could decide if it was right for him.
Unfortunately, there is very little documentary evidence of what took place during the 
meeting between Mr M and the AR. Theres no fact-find which recorded what was 
discussed, nor a detailed reasons-why letter, setting out the ARs rationale for 
recommending the policy. The documentary evidence is broadly limited to the post-sale 
policy documentation NFU sent to Mr M  which included a 92-page policy document. The 
relevant motorcycling exclusion is set out on page 87 of the contract terms. It isnt included 
on the schedule itself. 
Mr M has provided clear and consistent testimony about what happened during the meeting 
with NFUs AR. He says that he told the AR that he motorcycled on the road and that the AR 
told him this would be covered by the personal accident policy. Hes told us that the AR 
simply told him that professional motorcycling was excluded by the contract terms.  
However, its clear that the policy broadly excluded claims due to motorcycling accidents, 
except in very specific circumstances.
Where theres a dispute about whats happened, I need to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened, given the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. In this case, it seems clear to me that Mr M did want personal 
accident cover. I say that because the post-meeting statement of insurance shows that Mr 
M selected personal accident cover. And given Mr M appears to have used his motorbike for 
transport purposes, I find it most likely that hed have wanted to be insured for motorcycle 
accidents too.
Having considered the available evidence, I find Mr Ms testimony plausible and persuasive. 
In the absence of any fact-find or reasons-why letter, on balance, I think the AR most likely 
did tell Mr M that motorcycling would be covered by the policy. I note the policy excludes 
cover for professional sports. While I appreciate this is often a standard exclusion in personal accident policies; it tallies-up with Mr Ms recollections that the AR informed him he 
wouldnt be covered for professional motorbiking. And at the point Mr M learned he didnt 
have motorcycle cover; he added the cover to his policy and agreed to pay a significantly 
higher premium for that protection. So it seems to me that if Mr M had been told, at the point 
of sale, that he wasnt covered as standard and that he needed to pay more for motorcycle 
cover, hed have taken it out. 
Like the investigator, I think it seems that much of the policy the AR recommended was 
broadly suitable for Mr Ms needs. But I think there was a clear gap between what I think the 
AR likely told Mr M about personal accident cover for motorbikes and the exclusion which 
actually applied. In my view, this was a clear failing on the ARs part.  As Ive explained 
above, I think if the AR had made the exclusion clear, Mr M would have chosen to add 
motorcycle cover and pay more for the policy. If hed done so, it seems likely hed have been 
in a position to make a claim for lost income following his accident.
NFU says that Mr M was sent documentation post-sale and at each renewal which set out 
the exclusion. Its also referred to post-sale reviews with the AR in 2015 and 2021. As Ive 
set out above, the exclusion is detailed on page 87 of a 92 page policy booklet. Given the 
importance of cover to Mr M, Im not persuaded that this term was clearly drawn to his 
attention. And in my view, given Mr M seems to have believed he was covered for non-
professional use of his motorbike following the original sale in 2013, there would have been 
little reason for him to refer to this in later policy reviews.
Overall then, I think Mr M has lost out as a result of NFUs ARs error. I think the ARs failing 
to ensure the personal accident cover met Mr Ms needs and their failure to highlight the 
breadth of the exclusion caused Mr M to potentially suffer a financial loss he wouldnt 
otherwise have done. Therefore, I think NFU needs to take steps to put things right. In this 
case, as NFU underwrote Mr Ms policy, as well as being the ARs principal, I think the fair 
outcome to this complaint is for NFU to assess Mr Ms claim as if hed taken out the 
motorcycle cover at inception.
Putting things right
So I direct NFU to consider Mr Ms claim as if hed taken out the motorcycle endorsement in 
2013, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If the claim is otherwise 
payable, then NFU must pay monthly lost income benefit to Mr M for the period he was 
unable to work. NFU should calculate the additional premium Mr M would have paid for the 
motorcycle cover for 2013 onwards (including any premium discounts hed have benefited 
from) until the date of the accident. It may then deduct this amount from any benefit 
settlement due. If any settlement is due after such a deduction, NFU must add interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple to each benefit payment, from the date benefit was due until the 
date of settlement.
I agree with our investigator that NFUs ARs actions have caused Mr M material, 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience at a time when he was already injured and unable 
to work. So Im also directing NFU to pay Mr M £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman