DRN-4005125
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Sky UK Limited (Sky) unfairly asks her to repay lending in respect of 
goods which she says were damaged when supplied to her.
What happened
Mrs W entered into a fixed sum loan with Sky to fund the purchase of an electronic device on 
9 December 2021. The device was delivered to Mrs W, alongside another similar product 
also supplied by Sky, on 12 December 2021.
On 14 December 2021 Mrs W told Sky that whilst the other product shed order had been 
received as expected, she had found that this particular device was damaged upon opening 
the package.
Sky considered what Mrs W had said as well as pictures of the packaging and the device 
itself. It also spoke to the courier it had used to deliver the package. Ultimately it wasnt 
persuaded that the device had been damaged before being delivered to Mrs W. 
Mrs W disagreed, so she referred a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator, mainly on account of a lack of visible damage to the outer and inner boxes 
of the device, wasnt persuaded that the damage to the device had occurred either prior to 
its supply or whilst it was in transit. They also noted that the other similar device Mrs W had 
purchased was delivered in the same box, without damage. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs W disagreed. She said, in summary;
- There was some damage caused to the devices inner box, which shed provided 
pictures of, and mustve happened before being placed in a larger outer box;
- Shed found glass in her finger from the cracked screen as a result of peeling a 
protective film off the device; and
- If the damage had been caused after delivery, she simply wouldve made a claim for 
it on her household insurance policy.
Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to me to decide 
what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sky provided Mrs W with a fixed sum loan to finance the purchase of an electronic device. It 
was also the supplier of the device, so it was responsible for its delivery. As well as giving 
Mrs W a fixed sum loan to cover the cost of the device, Mrs W had an additional contract 
with Sky for the supply and use of the device, as well as associated services.
Ive seen that the terms of Mrs Ws fixed sum loan was linked to the other contract for the 
supply of the device. Given this, and as it appears that both contracts were sold as one 
package, in my view the contracts were intrinsically linked - the credit agreement actually 
sets out that it is a requirement for Mrs W to also enter into a contract for the supply of 
equipment. As a result, Ill consider both contracts together in determining whether Sky has 
treated Mrs W fairly. 
Mrs Ws fixed sum loan has terms which seek to limit her right to set off a claim under that 
contract against the other. This might apply in situation where Mrs W seeks to make a claim 
about the quality of the goods supplied to her under the linked contract for goods and 
services. 
Ive thought about what the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says about contract terms, 
and Im also aware that it is for a court to decide if a term is unfair, but Im required to take 
into account relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable.  
Having carefully considered this, I dont think it would be fair to exclude Mrs Ws right to set 
off a claim under one contract against the other. I think we can consider Mrs Ws claim that 
Sky breached its contract with her by not supplying goods which were not of satisfactory 
quality. In any case there is a regulated credit agreement, under which Mrs W is being 
charged for the goods, so I can consider whether Sky is acting fairly by asking Mrs W to pay 
where there is a dispute about the quality of goods supplied.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as it is in this case  Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I understand it, the device Mrs W complains about was housed in a manufacturers box, 
which Sky says was sealed by the manufacturer. That box, in turn, was placed in a larger 
box for transit, alongside another similar device which Mrs W had ordered. I understand the 
other device was received without damage, but Mrs W says the one she complains about 
was not. 
From whats been said I think that both parties agree there was little to no signs of damage 
to the outer boxes in which the device(s) were delivered, and I think the pictures Ive seen 
reflect that. Mrs W has shown a picture of the manufacturers box for the device, and I agree 
it seems theres a dent to the box in the upper right corner. Whilst the pictures of the damage 
to the device also shows damage to the upper right-hand side, its not quite in the corner, so 
it doesnt look like its in the same place. Overall, I dont think theres enough here for me to 
conclude, on balance, that the damage to that box correlates to, or caused, the damage to 
the device. 
Even if I were to accept that was the case, Im not persuaded that the damage to either the 
box or the device necessarily happened prior to it being delivered to Mrs W. I say this in the 
most part because two similar devices were delivered in one larger box, and I dont find it 
most probable that the larger box couldve been mishandled to the extent that it caused 
damage to one, but not both boxes and/ or devices inside it.
Addressing the point that Mrs W has said about the potential for the device to have been damaged prior to shipping, Im also not persuaded thats likely the case here. Sky has said 
that the devices are sealed by the manufacturer and Mrs Ws said that she removed 
protective plastic covers from the device. On balance, I think it unlikely that the device was 
damaged prior to being packaged by the manufacturer.
Overall, whilst I accept that its possible Mrs Ws device couldve been damaged before it 
reached her, on balance, Im not persuaded by the evidence Ive been presented that its 
more likely the case than not. I therefore cannot fairly ask Sky to do anything to put things 
right, and I find that it handled Mrs Ws complaint fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman