DRN-3155202
The complaint
Miss A complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card application. 
What happened
In August 2015 Miss A applied for a Vanquis credit card. Miss As application said she was 
living with parents, employed and earning around £36,500. Vanquis carried out a credit 
search and says it didnt find any adverse credit. Vanquis found Miss A owed around £1,100 
at the time of her application. 
Vanquis approved a credit limit of £150. Miss A used the credit card until October 2017 when 
the balance was cleared. Miss A missed a couple of payments in the months before her 
balance was cleared and the credit card closed. 
Miss A complained and Vanquis responded on 8 January 2021. Vanquis didnt agree it had 
lent irresponsibly and said its decision to approve a £150 credit limit was in line with its 
lending criteria. 
Miss A referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
didnt agree Vanquis had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Miss As complaint. As Miss A 
didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should take 
into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower each 
month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship between 
lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out more 
comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a sustainable way.
In this case, Vanquis says it took Miss As residential status, employment and income into 
account. Vanquis also carried out a credit search that didnt find any adverse credit 
information. The credit file showed Miss A owed around £1,100 at the time of her application. 
Vanquis says it applied its lending criteria and approved a credit limit of £150. Ive looked at 
the information Miss A provided in her application and didnt see anything that shouldve 
caused Vanquis to query the details provided. 
Miss A has told us she had two defaults in 2012 and another at the start of 2015. Ive looked 
at the application information provided by Vanquis and it doesnt show any defaults. Miss A 
forwarded a copy of her credit file but it doesnt go back to 2012 so I cant see the first two 
defaults shes told us about. 
Miss As credit file shows a loan default dated January 2015. But not all lenders report to 
every credit reference agency. It also appears that the business reporting the default from 
January 2015 didnt acquire Miss As debt until 2016, which is why the account start date is 
after the default date. I think the business currently reporting the January 2015 default 
purchased it from the original lender after the account had already been defaulted. I cant 
see any information relating to a default in the credit file information Vanquis obtained and I 
dont think it was aware of it when Miss A applied. 
I also think its reasonable to note that Vanquis approved a £150 credit limit and whilst there 
were some arrears, Miss A didnt default  the balance was repaid in full. 
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis did complete proportionate checks and its decision to approve 
Miss As credit card was reasonable. As Im satisfied Vanquis dealt with Miss As complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman