DRN-3441430
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Santander unfairly closed its bank 
account and recalled a Bounce Back Loan facility.
Ms director, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M held a bank account with Santander and successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £4,000 in May 2020.
Santander wrote to M in September 2021, explaining concerns that the company wasnt 
eligible for the loan it had obtained as:
The activity on Ms account suggested that it wasnt trading on 1 March 2020 as 
required by the Loan Scheme eligibility criteria.
When requesting the loan, M had declared an annual turnover of £18,000 but the 
banks records only showed income of around £85. This was relevant as a business 
was only entitled to borrow up to 25% of its annual turnover.
It had identified that M may not have used the loan funds for business purposes, as 
was intended under the Loan Scheme.
The bank asked Mr S to provide information to demonstrate that M met the eligibility criteria 
and had used the loan funds appropriately. 
Mr S said that M dealt primarily in cash and that hed run business transactions through 
personal accounts held elsewhere. He provided statements for his other accounts and 
invoices, along with some other documentation, that he believed evidenced the companys 
trading activity. And he said hed transferred the loan funds to a personal savings account as 
a holding account without any intention to benefit from it.
As Santander wasnt satisfied that M was entitled to the loan, it terminated the facility and 
demanded its immediate repayment. It also closed Ms bank account. Mr S complained, but 
Santander maintained its decision. So Mr S referred the matter to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought Santander had reasonably concluded that M wasnt eligible for the 
loan and then taken steps to recall it in line with the terms of the agreement. He also said 
that the bank had been entitled to withdraw Ms bank account and again had done so in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and asked that the matter be reviewed, so it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a business 
could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular relevance here, 
these included that:
The applicant was engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date of 
the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and had been adversely 
affected by coronavirus.
The loan amount could be no more than 25% of the applicants annual turnover, 
which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 calendar year.
The loan would be used to provide economic benefit to the business and not for 
personal purposes.
Santander approved Ms application on the strength of the companys self-declaration that it 
met these criteria. In keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants self-attested to 
eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process applicants and provide funds 
quickly. But when the bank subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with 
its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements  it concluded that M wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained. I 
think this was reasonable and Ill explain why in more detail.
There is little evidence to show that M was trading either on 1 March 2020. While the 
company was incorporated in 2018, it filed dormant accounts with Companies House for the 
period up to 31 January 2019 and Ive not seen any business-related transactions going 
through any accounts held by the company. 
Santander also had reasonable concerns as to how the loan funds were used. Their 
immediate withdrawal to a personal savings account would suggest that they were not being 
used for business purposes. Mr S hasnt explained or evidenced what the funds were 
ultimately used for, and neither Ms account statements nor those of Mr Ss personal 
accounts confirm this. 
In any event, even if I were to accept that M was trading at the requisite time and that it used 
the loan funds for business purposes, there is very little evidence to show that the company 
had sufficient turnover to qualify for the loan amount it received. 
The company wouldve needed an annual turnover of at least £16,000 in the calendar year 
2019 to be eligible for the £4,000 loan (with Mr S having declared a figure of £18,000). But 
Santander didnt think was accurate, which I think was reasonable given that:
During 2019, Ms account with Santander only received credits totalling £91. And 
even this amount was only received from another of its accounts held elsewhere, 
seemingly to cover the monthly account fee charged by Santander.
Mr S hasnt been able to demonstrate that M received any income into any other 
accounts elsewhere. The only other account statements hes provided are in his own 
name.While there are cash deposits going into Mr Ss personal accounts, these cant easily 
be attributed to any business-related activity. There is nothing to show that they are 
related to any trading activity by M, given that the source of the funds is unclear. 
They dont correlate precisely to the invoices Mr S provided, and could just as easily 
be personal transactions made by Mr S (which seems more likely, as there is little 
reason for cash belonging to the company to be paid into its directors personal 
account).
Ms own financial statements show a turnover of just £2,500 during 2020, which 
wouldnt support an income of £18,000 in the previous year, particularly given its 
apparent dormancy until partway through 2019.
Ive noted from what Mr S has said that he only took over the company in January 
2020  having been running his own business as a sole trader beforehand  and that 
he declared the business as having the ability to turn over £18,000 per year (my 
emphasis). This would suggest that Mr S used a projected turnover when applying. 
But projections could only be used for businesses established after 1 January 2019. 
M was established in 2018, so Mr S needed to use the companys actual turnover 
figures when applying. That was made clear in the application form he completed.
I understand Mr S thinks Santander should have checked all of this before approving the 
loan. But as I mentioned above, lenders were entitled to rely on the applicants self-
declaration as to their eligibility. The application form that Mr S completed also included 
declarations that set out the importance of providing accurate information and the potential 
consequences of any errors in this regard:
I/We recognise that by providing information that is inaccurate in any 
material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to gain, or gaining, a 
financial advantage dishonestly and as such will be liable to criminal 
prosecution for fraud  as well as to the forfeiture of all loan proceeds 
I also think Santander gave Mr S sufficient time and opportunity to demonstrate Ms 
eligibility, and confirm how the company had used the loan funds, before reaching its 
decision. It wrote to M clearly explaining its concerns and what information it would need to 
allow the loan to remain in place. 
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, the bank was entitled to terminate 
the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where 
any representations or statements made by M proved to be incorrect or inaccurate. Given all 
Ive said above, I think it was reasonable for Santander to conclude that was the case here. 
It follows that I think Santander was entitled to cancel the loan in the manner it did. 
The actions Santander took when restricting and later closing Ms bank account were in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions  and, given all Ive said about the concerns it had 
in respect of the Bounce Back Loan, were reasonable steps for it to take.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Ben JenningsOmbudsman