DRN-4003058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the outcome of a review of their whole of life policies caried 
out by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited in 2021. They are unhappy with the increase in 
premiums and reduction in the sum assured, they also say they didnt receive 
correspondence about the proposed changes. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the Investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its not that I havent 
considered it, rather its because I dont believe it affected what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate theres some history to this case because Mr and Mrs Ts complaint raised other 
issues in relation to their policies. But whilst I am aware of the background, I have to focus 
on the content of the complaint before me. I must take into account that the complaint about 
the sale of the policies and the reviews that were conducted prior to 2021 have already been 
decided to be out of this services jurisdiction. That means I am unable to consider those 
issues any further. 
The crux of this complaint is the outcome of the review which was carried out in 
2021. Aviva sent out correspondence which outlined several options. Broadly, Mr and 
Mrs T were presented with the options to either increase their premiums or reduce 
their sum assured. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T say the increase in premiums were unreasonable, but Im 
satisfied they were told in 2016 their premiums may increase and that significant 
changes may be needed in the future if no action was taken at the time. And I can 
see in 2021, thats what happened so Im satisfied they were given sufficient notice 
(in 2016) that their premiums may not sustain their sum assured. 
I note Mr and Mrs T say they didnt receive correspondence sent by Aviva, and Im 
aware that letters can go missing in the post. Whilst its possible that there mightve 
been an issue with the post and thats why they didnt receive correspondence - Im 
not aware of there being an issue here. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, I 
cant safely say that in this instance the letters werent received/delivered to Mr and 
Mrs T.  
When a business provides evidence that a letter has been written, correctly 
addressed and sent, this service generally accepts that position. In this case, Im 
satisfied the letters regarding Mr and Mrs Ts options were correctly addressed and 
sent to them, to the address both the business and this service has on file for them. I 
also dont think Aviva was obliged to subsequently chase Mr and Mrs T to see if 
theyd been received. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman