DRN-2858698
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society defaulted her account.
What happened
Miss Ts Nationwide credit account fell into arrears. In November 2019, Nationwide issued a 
default notice to the address they held for Miss T. However, Miss T didnt receive this notice 
because shed moved address. 
Miss T didnt make the payments toward the account that were required to avoid the account 
being defaulted, and Nationwide did later default the account. Because Nationwides mail 
was being delivered to an address Miss T no longer resided at, Miss T only became aware 
that her account had been defaulted at a later date, at which time she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Miss Ts complaint, but they felt that they had followed the correct 
process and had issued appropriate correspondence to the address they held on file for Miss 
T. Nationwide also noted that Miss T hadnt updated her address with them after she had 
moved. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss T wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Nationwide 
had followed the correct process and that it had been incumbent on Miss T to update her 
address when she moved. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been disappointing for Miss T to discover that Nationwide 
had recorded a default on her account, especially given that she didnt receive any letters 
advising her that the account was being in danger of being defaulted - because she no 
longer lived at the address to which Nationwide were sending such letters.
However, having reviewed all the information available to me on this complaint, its difficult to 
conclude that Nationwide have made any form of error here, and Im satisfied that 
Nationwide did send the default notice and other relevant correspondence that this service 
would have expected them to send when considering defaulting an account.
As has been established, Miss T didnt receive the letters that Nationwide sent. But the 
responsibility for updating her address with Nationwide rested with Miss T. And while I 
appreciate that Miss T had attempted to update her address by telephone without success, 
other methods of updating her address were available to her, such as via internet or in 
branch, but which werent utilised by Miss T.
Furthermore, Miss T was aware both that her account was in arrears and that Nationwide no 
longer held the correct address for her. And I feel its reasonably to have expected Miss T, in 
these circumstances, to have understood that there might be a heightened need for her to 
monitor her account.
I also feel that its reasonable to believe that Miss T would have been aware of the potential 
consequences of the account remaining in arrears, including the possibility that the account 
might be defaulted.
So, all things considered, its difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably toward Miss T. They issued appropriate correspondence to the address that 
they held on file, and this correspondence gave Miss T fair notice of Nationwides intentions 
should the necessary payments not be made. 
And while these letters werent received by Miss T, as explained, this isnt something which I 
feel I can fairly hold Nationwide accountable for. And, ultimately, given that the account was 
in arrears, the necessary payments to avoid the account being defaulted werent made by 
Miss T.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss T wanted here, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Nationwide to take any further action at this 
time. 
I hope that Miss T can understand, given what I have explained, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman