DRN-3213520
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the way that Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) has dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Advantage at the relevant time. She made a claim
on her policy following an accident in October 2020.
The accident happened when Miss Bs car was stationary on the side of the road. She had
opened the rear door on the drivers side to her car to rearrange items on the rear seat. A
collision took place causing damage to her rear door and to the wing mirror, door handle and
passenger side of a passing vehicle. Miss B complained that Advantage had settled the
matter with the third party on the basis that Miss B was at fault and that it accepted liability
for the accident on her behalf. This has affected Miss Bs no claims discount (NCD) and
means that she now pays an increased premium for her car insurance.
Miss B states that she had made all the necessary checks prior to exiting her vehicle. She
says that the road was sufficiently wide to allow traffic to pass without going over the central
line. She says that the collision occurred when her door had already been open for a few
minutes and several vehicles, including a bus had already passed safely even though there
were cars parked on both sides of the road.
Advantage initially took the stance that Miss B wasnt at fault for the incident and sent details
to the third-party insurer to confirm their stance. The third-party insurer eventually disputed
liability as their customer advised them that Miss B opened her door while their vehicle had
already partially passed her vehicle. Advantage said that having reviewed the evidence
available, it supported the third-party version of events.
Advantage considered that if the third party had hit Miss Bs vehicle while her door was
open, the initial area of damage would have been to the front bumper, front wing then
leading up to the door. It stated that the damage started at the door however, meaning the
third-party had already passed Miss Bs vehicle after shed opened the door. It said that
although the excess on her policy was payable, it waived this as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss B complained to Advantage, however it maintained its position and Miss B then
complained to this service.
Our investigator concluded that Advantage has acted in line with the terms of the policy and
had handled the claim fairly and reasonably. He set out our services approach; I would
expect Advantage to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence and
arguments before making its decision. Were likely to consider a decision reasonable if:
 it was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
 the decision took into account all the available evidence
 the decision doesnt appear unsound or contrary to the evidence
 it follows the standard legal principles.
Our investigator thought that Advantage had acted reasonably in all the circumstances. He
agreed that its very unfortunate that CCTV footage of the accident wasnt obtained. He said
that Advantage accepted that, although it usually tries to obtain CCTV footage as soon as
its notified of an incident, in this case it only did so in December 2020. This was after the
third-party insurer said it was disputing the liability. The relevant department of a nearby
public facility said its cameras didnt cover the accident location, and Advantage said that
any footage captured on buses that passed the accident would also have been lost by this
time.
Our investigator didnt think CCTV evidence would have made any difference to the outcome
of Miss Bs claim in any case. He said that even if the CCTV footage had shown that the
accident happened entirely as Miss B said it did, he didnt think it would prove the other
driver was entirely at fault.
Finally, our investigator noted Advantages submission that if there had been damage to the
front of the other car, it might have been able to argue split liability. He was satisfied that this
wasnt an unsound or contrary view for Advantage to take, based on the evidence and
circumstances of the accident. He noted that if the accident was recorded as split liability,
this would still mean that a fault claim would be recorded against Miss Bs policy.
Miss B remained unhappy with this outcome and the matter was therefore been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In November 2021, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint as follows; -
Ive reached the following provisional conclusion on the basis of the documents that Ive
read, the photographs that Ive seen and the telephone calls Ive listened to. I dont consider
that Advantage has acted fairly and reasonably in all respects in the handling of this claim
and Ill explain why.
I will firstly set out my role. This is to look at whether Advantage acted in a fair and
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in its handling of Miss
Bs claim. The role is not to decide who was at fault for an accident however.
Like most motor insurance policies, Miss Bs policy allows her insurer to decide how it will
deal with and settle any claim involving a third party. The terms and conditions of the policy
state that Advantage may take over and deal with a claim (right of subrogation) as follows;
We are entitled to process your claim in its entirety as well as conduct the defence or
settlement of any claim and / or admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf.
Turning to Miss Bs complaint, its Miss Bs contention that if Advantage had asked for the
bus CCTV footage, it would have clearly shown that her rear door was already open well
before the collision. She says that numerous vehicles, including at least one bus had already
driven past. She said that this proves beyond doubt that the third party was at fault and
collided with Miss B, rather than Miss B having opened her door on to the third-party vehicle.
She says that Advantage appeared to accept she was not at fault, as no excess was
demanded when the car was repaired.
Miss B states; Whilst I fully understand that the role of the FSO is not to determine fault,
rather to establish whether an insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in its
handling of a claim, it is abundantly clear that in this instance they have not done so. I
cannot comprehend how, given that your role is not to establish liability, that you consider
doing nothing until the TPI counter claim, to be fair and reasonable.
Miss B is particularly concerned that time sensitive information such as CCTV footage hadnot been chased up by Advantage in a timely manner, particularly as she said shed
referenced the need to obtain this evidence at the outset. She said that this would have
resulted in the correct outcome.
Miss B considers that Advantage had done nothing and as a result, didnt take into account
all of the available evidence; particularly in cases, such as mine, where it is well recognised
that establishing liability is not clear cut. since it also appears that insurers have lengthy
timeframes in which to contest liability, this further adds to the urgency of obtaining any
evidence that can independently corroborate a policyholders version of events.
Advantage sets out its case as follows; When considering who was at fault for this incident,
we looked at the incident location, damage to both parties vehicles and both versions of
events. We enquired if there was any CCTV footage of the incident, but unfortunately, there
wasnt any that showed the area where the incident occurred.
Advantage says that when the damage to the third-party vehicle was reviewed, it noted
scratches to the mid-section going towards the rear of their vehicle. It says that this supports
its contention that the third-party vehicle had passed Miss Bs vehicle when her door was
opened onto it. It accepts that it cannot categorically confirm that this was the case on the
evidence available. It states that if the third-party had collided with Miss B's already open
door however, it would have damaged the front of the third-party vehicle.
Advantage refers to the accident report form which Miss B completed. This confirmed that
the third-party vehicle passenger side wing mirror was damaged and that the side of the car
was scratched. It states that Miss Bs rear drivers side door has lipped damage to it caused
by her open door hitting the oncoming traffic; The damage to the third-party vehicle is from
the mid-section to the back and your rear drivers side door has lipped damage to it caused
by your open door hitting the oncoming traffic.
Advantage also said that from the images Miss B had sent of both vehicles, the third-party
vehicle looked like it had a dent which it said was from Miss Bs door on the passenger side
front door. It said Miss Bs door has lipping at the end which it says shows that it was opened
into the other vehicle.
Advantage further states that had there have been frontal damage to the other vehicle then it
may have been able to argue for split liability (which would still be classed as a fault claim
against Miss B so the outcome would remain the same). It says that split liability would rate
the same at renewal and that both would be logged as a fault claim on the policy and that
the outcome would therefore have been the same.
Ill set out our approach in providing my provisional conclusion in this matter. We expect an
insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the available evidence before making
its decision on liability. Such a decision should be made in a fair and reasonable manner. In
this case, Advantage had initially taken the view that Miss B was not at fault based on her
evidence and didnt therefore pursue other evidence.
I agree with our investigator that its therefore unfortunate that Advantage didnt promptly
check whether the relevant bus company had CCTV footage available at an early stage in
this claim. Miss B had raised this point when she made her claim as shed noted that
vehicles including one bus had passed her without incident when her car door was already
open. Advantage did approach the public facility for CCTV footage at the end of 2020 
however that didnt cover the road. It didnt approach the bus company as suggested by
Miss B.
Miss B accepts that Advantage couldnt reasonably be expected to go chasing around lots ofplaces to obtain CCTV evidence and can only go by the information provided to them. In this
case however there was possible CCTV footage which Miss B had identified as being
footage that could verify her claim.
I consider that incidents of this nature are often contested however. In the circumstances I
provisionally conclude that it would have been fair and reasonable for Advantage to have at
least followed up her reference to possible availability of bus CCTV, as Miss B had
specifically suggested that this was relevant. Not having done so has deprived Miss B of the
opportunity to have potentially shown that this wasnt a matter which should have been
recorded as a fault claim against her policy.
As to the available evidence, as there were no other eye-witnesses, I can only consider
other factors such as the photographic and written evidence. Having considered this
carefully, Ive noted that the available photographs show that the lip of Miss Bs rear door
has been bent outwards. The third-party damage consists of the offside mirror and door
handle having been damaged with scratches to the body from the mirror to the rear of the
car.
It is my provisional conclusion that such damage is more consistent with the door being
already open and the third-party vehicle wing mirror having collided with it and resulting in
consequential damage to the passenger side of Miss Bs vehicle. I appreciate that its
possible to view such cases as 50/50 fault cases. Im not sufficiently persuaded however
from the damage Ive seen that any fault can be attributed to Miss B, whilst appreciating the
need to take great care in opening vehicle doors onto a busy road.
I therefore find on the balance of probabilities that Advantage didnt handle this claim in a fair
and reasonable manner. I dont consider that it was fair or reasonable for Advantage to have
come to the conclusion that it did on the basis of the evidence. On the balance of
probabilities, the outward, lipped damage to Miss Bs door was, much more likely to have
been caused by a blow by the third-partys wing mirror then causing further damage to the
third-party vehicle behind the wing mirror.
Im further persuaded of this as I accept Miss Bs evidence that the third party initially drove
away from the scene of the accident and Miss B had chased down the road to ensure that
the third-party stopped. The third party said that shed not seen Miss B and the open door
and had also assumed that theyd only clipped wing mirrors. Advantage doesnt appear to
have considered this point.
I therefore find on a provisional basis that Advantage hasnt fairly or reasonably decided the
issue of liability. Further Im not persuaded that its fair or reasonable to conclude that liability
should be recorded on a 50/50 basis, given that the third party initially drove away from the
scene of the accident and didnt appear to be fully aware of what had happened.
I also consider that Miss B has been inconvenienced and caused stress due to Advantages
handling of the matter which is additional to that suffered as a result of the accident itself. Its
also my provisional conclusion therefore that Advantage should pay a modest sum in
compensation.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Advantage and Miss B if they had any further 
comments or evidence, they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage didnt provide any further information or evidence following my provisional 
decision. Miss B noted the provisional decision and, other than making enquiries regarding 
the next steps, she didnt provide any further information or evidence.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited and require it to do the following within 28 days of Miss Bs acceptance of 
this final decision; -
- Record the accident on internal and external databases as a non-fault accident and to
issue a letter to Miss B which she may share with her current and future insurers to confirm
this. Remove any costs of the claim from her insurance record.
- Pay the difference between the premiums Miss B would have paid if the accident had been
recorded as non-fault and shed had full NCD and what shes actually had to pay without
reduced NCD (subject to appropriate proof of extra premium paid).
- Pay Miss B the sum of £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes
suffered as a result of her claim experience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman