DRN-1984478
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was misadvised when he terminated his conditional sale contract 
with Vauxhall Finance plc (VF).
What happened
Mr S entered into a Conditional Sale Agreement in January 2019, for a used car. In 
November 2019 he contacted VF in November 2019 to discuss his options on how he could 
end the finance agreement as his circumstances had changed. He was told about a number 
of options and was given a settlement figure on 13 November 2019. Mr S then agreed to 
voluntary surrender the car and signed the documentation on 5 December 2019.
Mr S says he was told that any auction funds from the sale of the car would be deducted 
from the settlement figure he was given in November 2019 and he would owe the balance. 
However, he was later told that the auction proceeds would be deducted from the account 
balance, which was significantly higher the settlement figure. The difference is over £2,000.
VF rejected Mr Ss complaint and he brought the matter to this service. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. VF was unable to provide recording 
of the calls between it and Mr S, but it did supply its file notes.
He said that when a consumer enquires about their options to end a finance agreement we 
would expect the finance provider to explain all the options available and the differences 
between the options including costs and impacts so the consumer can make an informed 
choice.
He said the notes of the call on 13 November 2019 say:
customer called to discuss all options as circumstances have changed. Advised of selling, 
part ex, CHOC and VS. Customer is speaking to his partner later regarding a VS; diarised a 
call back for this evening to discuss VS forms.
The notes from the second call on 13 November 2019 say:
Customer wanted to know the process of a VT and if he needed an MOT as the vehicle 
does not have one  advised to get the vehicle MOTd as he would be charged for this on 
top of his shortfall amount once the vehicle is sold at auction  diarised a call back for 14-11-
2019 AM with information on the VS process.
He pointed out the notes of the first call make no reference to voluntary termination (VT) as 
an option. However, he said the second call note referred to VT and then later to voluntary 
surrender (VS). He thought it unlikely that VT would have been discussed as it hadnt been 
in the first call. He thought it was probably a typing error and shouldve been recorded as VS 
and not VT.
On balance, he didnt think it likely that VT had been discussed as an option for Mr S to end 
his finance agreement. He mentioned FCA guidance which requires financial businesses to 
communicate clearly with customers and have due regard to their interests. He said VF 
should treat Mr S as if he had made a request to VT.
VF didnt agree and said the information regarding voluntary termination was clearly 
documented on Mr Ss contract. He had been fully informed of what the VS involved and all 
other options available to him, including the impact on his credit file.
It said the investigator was suggesting it do was to falsify the customers credit file by 
marking it as VT. It added that he couldnt VT as the car was a non-runner with the battery 
stuck in the boot. Collection had been aborted and would have included a fee if the customer 
had signed voluntary termination documentation. In addition to the this there would have 
been charges applicable for the damages to the car. It suggested the damages would have 
been costed at £721, but no record had been kept.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must admit I do not find the arguments put forward by the business to be persuasive. I 
struggle to see why Mr S would choose the more expensive option if he had been given a 
full and clear explanation of what each would most likely cost. 
Mr S turned to VF for advice when he found himself unable to maintain the payments and 
although we dont have recordings of the conversations it seems from the notes that it is 
unlikely that VT was discussed. As our investigator has pointed out the FCA sets certain 
standards for financial businesses in their handling of customers. That requires a business to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading).
To say that the information was set out in the contract seems a little unrealistic. VF had 
given Mr S a settlement figure and it was reasonable for him to expect this to be sum he was 
due to pay after allowing for any proceeds from the sale of the car. I think it reasonable to 
expect VF to make clear to him his range of options in full.
The fact the car wasnt roadworthy wouldnt have been an insurmountable problem and I am 
sure that Mr S could have taken action to ensure it met the requirements of VF. As for the 
suggestion that the proposed solution falsifies the reality I dont agree. In essence what the 
investigator was saying was that the record should show what Mr S should have been 
offered. 
As for the damage the car may have suffered VF says it doesnt have record but has 
provided an estimate. As the car has gone this means Mr S doesnt have the ability to 
challenge any charge so I think VF has missed the opportunity to make any charge, but I 
consider it can charge any fee it would have done had the car been VTd.
Putting things right
I consider that to putting things right Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Vauxhall Finance plc to:
1. Reduce the amount Mr S owes in line with if hed used voluntary termination to end the agreement instead of voluntary surrender.
2. Amend Mr Ss credit file to show the agreement was ended by voluntary termination and 
not voluntary surrender.
3. Remove any defaults added to Mr Ss credit file in relation to the voluntary surrender.
4. Pay Mr S £150 compensation due to poor level of service he has received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman