DRN-4090018
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the service received from Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 
(trading as Abrdn Aberdeen). She says she wanted to sell part of one of her holdings in her 
ISA held with it. She wanted to keep the proceeds of the sale within the ISA, to be reinvested 
at some stage. Instead, it was sold, and she was sent the proceeds. She says this is not 
what she wanted, and Aberdeen is at fault for this.  
Mrs C is represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr C although to keep things simple I 
have referred to Mrs C throughout. 
What happened
Mrs C held a stocks and shares ISA with Aberdeen. On 15 October 2021, she went online to 
try and sell part of one of her holdings. She said the portal had an array of tabs, one of which 
was sell and another was labelled cash withdrawal. She said the sell tab was pressed 
and she arranged the sale through that option. She said she expected the proceeds of the 
sale to appear on her account balance, and it was her view that she would reinvest at some 
stage and in doing so keep the tax benefits that an ISA attracts. 
She said a few days later, she received a letter and cheque in the post for the proceeds 
raised from the sale. She raised a complaint and said this was not what she intended. 
Aberdeen said all sales instructed through its portal were automatically paid out in cheque or 
nominated bank account. Cash withdrawals it says, were for cash balances. It referred to its 
terms and conditions about how it operated its ISAs at that time.
Mrs C was not happy with Aberdeens response and referred her complaint to our service. 
She said it was not made clear within the terms and conditions about selling online. She said 
selling a holding and withdrawals are two different things. She said she is entitled to expect 
the proceeds of a sale would remain within an ISA and that she would be able to continue to 
receive the tax benefits from this. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 March 2023. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said:
Mrs Cs complaint is about a withdrawal that took place because of a sale in one of her 
holdings held within an ISA administered by Aberdeen. Mrs C wanted to sell part of one of 
her holdings, on the understanding the proceeds would be held as cash on the account. This 
was so that, at a later date, she could reinvest into a different holding. But this didnt happen 
as the proceeds were instead paid out as a withdrawal. 
It is clear to me when I read through what happened, that Mrs C didnt want to have the 
money paid out to her as a withdrawal. When she received the cheque, she made a 
complaint to Aberdeen about it. 
I can see why Mrs C would think she could sell part of her holding to reinvest at a later date. 
Its a common feature in stocks and shares ISAs for them to work that way  for sales 
proceeds to be held as cash within a tax efficient ISA to use for reinvestment. 
There is no requirement for Aberdeen to administer its ISA accounts that way. It is entitled to 
operate its ISA accounts within the terms that it sets (within HMRC rules). But in doing so, it 
must treat its customers fairly and provide clear, fair and not misleading information about its 
terms especially if the terms are not what is usually found in a stocks and shares ISA. 
Mrs C says Aberdeen didnt make its terms and conditions clear enough and failed to make 
clear that sales were classed as withdrawals. Aberdeen on the other hand says that its terms 
were clear about how it operated its ISAs at that time. Mrs C argues the wording used is not 
clear enough to her that a sale within her ISA is equivalent to a withdrawal. She says that 
there is a tab for a sale and a tab for withdrawal and the wording is not clear as to what each 
one means. She provides a few examples that she says demonstrates this. 
Aberdeen responded and explained why it felt its terms were clear. It argues that a 
withdrawal and sale are one and the same within the terms and that it used the words 
interchangeably to describe selling an investment. It believes its terms were fully clear that to 
make a sale or withdrawal was to sell an investment.
Ive read the terms closely and section 11 that is titled making withdrawals from your plan. 
Having done so I dont think it has been made clear here by Aberdeen that a sale of a 
holding will automatically result in the proceeds being withdrawn. 
I cant see within the original terms and conditions provided to Mrs C, that the clarity needed 
was given - that any sale will result in a withdrawal. This is relevant to Mrs Cs complaint 
because she has said in a recent submission that she read the terms and conditions when 
she opened her account, so she would have had some knowledge of them before going on 
to make the sale online. And after doing so she was still of the understanding that the sale 
she instructed was going to leave a cash balance on her account. Having read the terms and 
conditions, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs C to have that understanding. 
In addition to this, when Mrs C went on the online trading platform, she wouldve seen 
displayed a number of tabs these being buy and sell, debit and top-up, cash withdrawals 
and switch instructions. Mrs C told our service that she had used the trading platform before 
and had used it to switch funds. But this was her first time in using the platform to sell a 
holding. So, she would have been reliant on Aberdeen at this point to make clear what was 
going to happen when she made a sale instruction.  
Aberdeen has recently confirmed to our service that there were no prompts at that time 
alerting the user that the proceeds would automatically be paid out. It said the portal would 
simply direct the customer to a page that said the transaction had been processed. So, Mrs 
C wouldve made the sale and then wouldve been directed to a page to say it had gone 
through, with no warning about the implications of that action. And as I have already 
concluded Mrs C would not have been clear from the terms about what would happen here 
either.
In summary, I currently dont think Aberdeen has provided Mrs C with sufficiently clear 
information about her ISA and this has resulted in her agreeing an instruction on the trading 
portal that has caused her detriment. If Aberdeen had provided Mrs C with clearer 
information, I dont think Mrs C would have carried out that instruction.
So, it follows that I currently think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld and Aberdeen need to 
put things right.I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mrs C responded on 9 March 2023 and didnt agree or disagree 
with my findings. She has made several additional points. These being:
She would like it noted that post her complaint, Aberdeen have now updated 
section 11 of the terms and conditions. Now there is an important note box 
which warns abouts sales / withdrawals and the potential loss of tax benefits. And 
a further box elsewhere which warns against funds being released. She asks why 
if Aberdeen felt its terms were clear, does it feel it needs to add these warning 
boxes to its terms?
Mrs C refers to a finding I made about there not being a prompt from Aberdeen 
before the transaction took place. She asks if I have inferred this because 
Aberdeen has since added a prompt screen? 
Mrs C makes a few comments about how compensation would be worked out in 
relation to her losing tax efficiency of the funds. She asks how the process would 
work and whether the money would go back into the ISA. She also asks whether, 
in calculating investment losses, whether this would include any dividends and 
the reinvestment of these.
Finally, Mrs C makes comments about distress and inconvenience. She says she 
is glad this is recognised within my decision but also would like to raise another 
inconvenience. She says she did not cash the cheque that was sent to her by 
Aberdeen. She says because she did not do this, that Aberdeen have had use of 
the money over the period, and she hasnt. She asks if it would be appropriate for 
compensation to be considered here.    
Aberdeen responded on 28 March 2023 and said it was extremely disappointed with my 
findings. It said it wanted to stress its opposition to the outcome I arrived at, in my 
provisional decision and requests I reconsider matters. It also has provided several 
additional points for me to consider. It says:
The issue experienced by Mrs C is not unique to her, it has had a small number 
of previous complaints where investors have sold holdings without realizing this 
would result in realised monies.
It is fundamentally important to note that on each occasion The Financial 
Ombudsman Service has rejected previous complaints and ruled that its terms 
and conditions and online service were sufficiently clear. It adds later in its 
submission, that several previous reviews by the ombudsman have concluded 
that it should not be held accountable for the clients misrepresentation of the 
functionality of the online service, or terms given. It has listed previous 
complaints that it says show this to be the case. 
It then highlights one of its terms and what is supposed to happen when a 
withdrawal is made. It goes on to say it is confused as to why I have decreed that 
there is an ambiguity here and that a client would think anything other than what 
is stated under this term would happen. It says it is abundantly clear within the 
terms and conditions as to what will happen and what it would do to process 
sales proceeds. After reviewing my provisional decision, it says it can see no understandable 
rationale for the reversal of the adjudicators view. Or the discrepancy between 
my decision and the other cases, and the consistent approach taken so far that 
my findings have gone against. It says in its experience it is rare for an 
ombudsman to overturn an adjudicators view and unprecedented for an 
ombudsman to rule against an approach adopted on several occasions already. 
Mrs C says that in making the sale, she should reasonably expect the funds to be 
on her account. It asks, where in the terms and conditions does it state that this is 
the case? It says it doesnt because no such provision exists. It says it contests in 
the strongest terms that after reading the terms, that Mrs C would conclude that 
funds would stay in her account. And within my provisional decision I have not 
provided any evidence to support this stance either. It says this has all been 
borne by an erroneous assumption made by Mrs C and it asks me as the 
ombudsman to recognise this.
The emphasis was on Mrs C to contact it to clarify any of the terms that she was 
unsure of. It says she should have done this rather than assume as to how its 
service worked.
There is no regulation that precludes it from offering a product that functions in 
the way it does. It does not think the model it uses is uncommon or that it 
warrants a disclaimer to mark it out as such. It says it is not an open platform 
offering a range of investments. It does not believe there is a requirement for it to 
mark out the difference to its product and that of an open platform. 
It continues to believe its terms and conditions are clear but contends that if any 
uncertainty exists in the clients minds, that the onus is on them to address this.
The balance of fairness has been tipped in favour of the client, and we have not 
held the client to account for their role in this. It would like me to take a different 
stance on the complaint. 
Mrs C has not agreed or disagreed with my findings and Aberdeen has disagreed with 
them. So as both parties are not in agreement and have both put forward several points, 
I will again look into Mrs Cs complaint and look to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will respond to both parties comments, starting with Mrs C. 
Mrs Cs response dated 9 March 2023
Mrs C did not say in her response to my provisional decision, whether she agreed with 
my findings or not. But she has made further comments about Aberdeen including that it 
has amended its terms and conditions to include what she has called warning boxes. I 
acknowledge the observation that she has made here.Mrs C also asks if I have inferred that Aberdeen has since added a prompt screen after a 
transaction is now carried out. I was not inferring that this was the case in my provisional 
decision. I asked Aberdeen if there were any prompts at the time Mrs C made the 
transaction as I wanted to ascertain what she wouldve seen or not seen online when it 
happened. I was simply explaining what would have happened at that time and was 
making no inference about anything else.
Mrs C has made several comments about compensation. I have responded to these 
comments in the section putting things right below. 
Aberdeens response dated 28 March 2023 
Aberdeen said it is extremely disappointed in my findings. I acknowledge the strength of 
feeling that the representative from Aberdeen has expressed in their response. It has 
been clear about what its stance is in relation to Mrs Cs complaint, how it provides its 
services in relation to its online service and the terms associated. 
Aberdeen said Mrs Cs issues experienced are not unique to her. It goes on to say it is 
fundamentally important to note that previous cases that are similar in nature have not 
been upheld by The Financial Ombudsman Service, it has referenced these complaints 
and emphasised how in its opinion it is unprecedented that I would decide to uphold this 
complaint. I do not agree with Aberdeen, and I will explain why. 
When I looked at Mrs Cs complaint, I took into consideration the law, regulations, and 
good industry practice from around the time the issues complained about happened. I 
also looked at any relevant guidance and considered our approach in general to similar 
complaints.  
I have considered Mrs Cs complaint on its individual merits. Each case that Aberdeen 
referenced and other similar cases to this one, have different circumstances to each other 
and to Mrs Cs case. Mrs Cs complaint has a different set of circumstances such as 
when the transaction happened, what she did at the time and her own personal 
circumstances in relation to Aberdeens online platform and the associated terms. So, it is 
very much the case that I needed to assess Mrs Cs complaint on its own merits and in 
relation to her own set of circumstances.
Aberdeen is not correct in thinking that because it has received outcomes in its favour 
previously from our service, that it will or should continue to do so going forward for the 
same reasons, regardless of the individual circumstances of each complaint. It would 
need to consider the circumstances of each complaint as the circumstances more likely 
than not will be different on each occasion. As is the case with Mrs Cs complaint.  
Mrs C said she read the terms and conditions when she opened her account, so she would 
have had some knowledge of them before going on to make the sale online. And after doing 
so she was still of the understanding that the sale she instructed was going to leave a cash 
balance on her account. This is a different set of circumstances to what Aberdeen are 
referring to in its most recent submission  that it was an erroneous assumption borne by 
Mrs C. Rather, as I have concluded in my provisional decision, I found the terms on balance 
were not clear in relation to withdrawals. Mrs C read the terms and by doing this Aberdeen 
has not provided Mrs C with sufficiently clear information about her ISA and this has resulted 
in her agreeing an instruction on the trading portal that has caused her detriment. If Aberdeen had provided Mrs C with clearer information, I dont think Mrs C would have 
carried out that instruction.
Aberdeen has referred to a term about withdrawals. But I can see that this term is in relation 
to what happens once a withdrawal has been requested and how long it takes for the 
withdrawal to reach them. As I concluded in my provisional decision, I cant see within the 
terms provided at the time, a clear explanation that a sale is a withdrawal. That is the 
relevant issue in Mrs Cs complaint. I note again that Aberdeen has now provided clarity and 
added warning boxes about this in its current terms and conditions. 
Aberdeen said the emphasis is on Mrs C to clarify anything she is unsure of. It says if there 
is any uncertainty on Mrs Cs behalf then it is up to her to address this. But Aberdeen is the 
party that is subject to this complaint, and I am looking at whether it met its responsibilities 
that it held with Mrs C as its client, about the issues that she raised in her complaint. 
Aberdeen had a duty to provide information that was clear fair and not misleading so that 
Mrs C could make the right choices or decisions when it came to the investments, she held 
with it. I have concluded that on balance, the terms it provided at that time Mrs C went to sell 
one of her holdings, were not clear and specifically I didnt feel on balance, that it had 
provided clear information to Mrs C that a sale on its online platform was a withdrawal. Mrs 
C read the terms and went ahead and sold a holding not expecting to lose the tax efficiency 
of her money. I dont think Aberdeen gave clear enough information about this, and it hasnt 
provided any further comments that has made me change my mind in this regard.
It follows that I dont think Aberdeen provided Mrs C with sufficiently clear information about 
her ISA and this has resulted in her agreeing an instruction on the trading portal that has 
caused her detriment. On balance, if Aberdeen had provided Mrs C with clearer information, 
I dont think Mrs C would have carried out that instruction. So, it follows that Aberdeen now 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Mrs C has made comments in response to my provisional decision, most of which will be 
covered by what I describe below as they are in relation to her being put back in a position, 
she wouldve been in but for Aberdeens failings in her complaint. 
She has also suggested that I consider looking at compensation for the money that she has 
been deprived of by not cashing the cheque. Everything that I am going to go on to describe, 
is with an aim to putting her back in a position she wouldve been in if Aberdeen had made 
its terms clearer and she hadnt made a sale that was a withdrawal i.e she wouldve had her 
money still in the ISA. In this scenario, she wouldnt have had a cheque issued to her and 
Aberdeen wouldnt have held her money on deposit. What Mrs C is asking for, is to be 
compensated twice: to be put back in the position she wouldve been in and to be 
compensated as if she wanted to make the withdrawal but was denied the use of the money. 
Mrs Cs complaint is that she didnt want to make a withdrawal, and so with the findings I 
have made already, this is what Aberdeen need to rectify when it puts things right. To put 
things right, in any other scenario is not logical or fair on Aberdeen. So, I wont be 
considering what Mrs C has asked for, any further.  
Moving on, I think there are a number of issues that need to be considered when I think 
about how Mrs C can be put back into a position, she would have been in but for Aberdeens 
failings here. I dont think Mrs C would have carried out the sale / withdrawal if the terms had 
been clearer and she was aware of what would happen if she went ahead with the sale. And 
if she hadnt gone through with the sale then the money would most likely still be invested in the original holding in her ISA account. So that is what Aberdeen need to look to recreate to 
put things right.
Firstly, Aberdeen would have charged a fee for carrying out the sale and this should be 
refunded to Mrs C.
Secondly, Aberdeen has not said it will look to reinstate the money that was withdrawn. So, it 
will need to compensate her for the loss of tax protection. This is not a straightforward issue 
to put right. This is because of the amount involved and because Mrs C has told our service 
that she has used all of her ISA subscription for 2021/22. She has also told us that it is her 
intention to use the full ISA allowance going forward as well so re-investing the funds is not 
something that she says she can do. 
Thirdly, it is more likely than not that Mrs C would have kept the investment and not tried to 
sell part of it if Aberdeens terms had been clearer. With this being the case, Aberdeen 
should pay Mrs C for any lost investment gains here (if there are any). So, if the fund Mrs C 
was invested in has gone up in value, Aberdeen needs to pay Mrs C the difference between 
what the fund value was at the date of withdrawal and the value of the holding when it 
carries out this calculation. Mrs C should now also cash in the cheque due to the money not 
being reinstated by Aberdeen. 
Finally, I think Mrs C has had a difficult time in trying to get this issue sorted with Aberdeen. I 
can see that it has been a stressful time for her in trying to put things right and this has 
involved at times lengthy correspondence with Aberdeen to try and get her withdrawn money 
reinstated. I think to reflect the difficult time she has had; Aberdeen should pay her a £200 
payment for distress and inconvenience. 
In conclusion, I direct Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited to calculate the loss that Mrs C has 
incurred due to its error which led to proceeds being held outside of her ISA from a sale. 
This means compensating her for loss of tax protection, investment losses, fees and a 
payment of distress and inconvenience as I have described above. 
Aberdeen should use the following assumptions to calculate compensation due about Mrs 
Cs circumstances:
Mrs C has an annual salary, as well as earning interest from cash savings and she 
receives dividends.
Mrs C falls within the higher rate Scottish tax band.
She uses her annual personal savings and dividend allowance and will continue to.
She has used her capital gains tax allowance and will continue to. 
Aberdeen should also use the following assumptions:
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly 
different from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA.
2. Mrs C will pay tax on the investment at the tax rate applicable to her. 
3. Mrs C will not be able to reinvest the money as she has told our service she will be 
using her allowances. Therefore, Aberdeen will need to use the period of 10 years 
that Mrs C will have lost her tax efficiency status for. It is reasonable to conclude that 
Mrs C will have looked to sell her investment after this period.
 
4. The tax position will remain unchanged for the assumed period of 10 years.5. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged.
6. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% compounded year
(Made up of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend)
7. Pay Mrs C for any investment losses she has incurred from the date of withdrawal to 
the value of the holding when it calculates this settlement.
8.Pay Mrs C £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I direct Aberdeen Asset Managers 
Limited to put things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman