DRN-3952499
The complaint
Mrs B has complained, originally via a representative, that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-
sold her packaged bank accounts.
Mrs B has also complained that when she attended a Lloyds Branch in June 2016, she 
explained that she was experiencing difficulties, and Mrs B says that Lloyds shouldve 
provided her with better support.
Account history
upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service account prior to September 2001
upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account on 18 October 2005
upgraded to the fee-paying Premier account on 26 February 2007
Club Lloyds packaged added to Premier account on 29 August 2017
What happened
Lloyds didnt think the packaged accounts were mis-sold, and it explained that it had already 
refunded Mrs Bs Premier account fees, between June 2016 until November 2017.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that the packaged 
accounts were mis-sold. He also didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything further (in relation 
to Mrs Bs Premier account) regarding Mrs Bs circumstances in 2016.
Mrs B disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
Mis-sale complaint
Although Mrs B has provided an explanation about why she believes Lloyds got things 
wrong in 2016, she (and her representative) has provided very little specific information 
about why she believes each of the packaged accounts were mis-sold. So I have based my 
assessment on what Mrs B has provided us alongside all of the evidence provided by 
Lloyds.
Ive started off by considering whether Mrs B was given a fair choice.
From what I can see, Mrs B has held a fee-free account alongside her packaged account 
since 2001. Therefore, I think that Mrs B agreed to all of the packaged accounts in the 
knowledge that fee-free accounts were available to her and that she didnt have to have a 
fee-paying account if she didnt want one. 
I note that Mrs B, in her response to the adjudicators assessment, has mentioned that she 
thought that she needed the packaged accounts to obtain loans. However, Mrs B (or her 
representative) never mentioned this when she originally complained to Lloyds about the 
sale of the accounts. And given that Mrs B upgraded her Platinum and Premier accounts 
herself online i.e. without any interaction with Lloyds staff members  this seems very 
unlikely. Furthermore, if its the case that Mrs B genuinely believed she needed a packaged 
account to obtain a loan - but didnt actually want a packaged account  I think its the case 
that she wouldve opted for the cheapest one available, rather than apply for a more 
expensive one. 
As such, when taking everything into account, I think that Mrs B was in all likelihood given a 
fair choice when she upgraded her account.
Lloyds has said that the Gold Account was most likely sold in branch but says that the 
Platinum and Premier accounts were sold online. 
Therefore, I think its likely that the Gold account was sold on an advised basis, whereas the 
latter two packaged accounts were sold without advice. The reason why a distinction is 
made is because where a packaged account is sold on an advised basis, Lloyds would be 
required to ensure the account was appropriate for Mrs Bs specific circumstances at the 
time. Whereas if a packaged account is sold on a non-advised basis, it wouldve been up to 
Mrs B to decide whether the packaged account was right for her circumstances.
In 2001, the Gold account cost £8 per month and provided benefits such as discounts on 
personal loans and a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with lower rates of interest 
(compared to what was charged on fee-free accounts) on overdrawn balances above this 
amount (up to the agreed limit). It also provided other benefits such as worldwide travel 
insurance.
I can see that in 2001, Mrs B was occasionally using an overdraft on her account. And I can 
see she took out a Gold Service loan in September 2001. Mrs B was able to get a lower rate 
of interest on this loan as a result of having the Gold packaged account. So In the 
circumstances, it seems that Mrs B was able to benefit from the banking benefits that the 
account provided. Ive also seen nothing that wouldve prevented her from making use of the 
travel insurance that was included with the account. As such, based on the evidence that is 
available, I think that the recommendation for the Gold account was not an unreasonable 
one.
Whether the accounts were sold on an advised basis, or non-advised basis, Lloyds was 
required to provide Mrs B with important information about the packaged accounts. This was 
so that Mrs B understood what they came with and was aware of the limitations of the 
benefits too. So I have considered this for all of the account sales.
Unfortunately, as the sales took place so long ago, there is now only limited evidence 
available about what information Mrs B was provided with during each of the sales. 
Having said that, given that Mrs B actively chose to upgrade her account to successively 
more expensive accounts - with her upgrading to the Platinum and Premier accounts herself 
online  I think Mrs B was given at least some information about the account benefits and 
costs. Afterall, I dont think Mrs B wouldve kept applying to upgrade her account if she 
wasnt interested in the additional benefits that the accounts provided. And Mrs B has not 
actually said anything to suggest she was unaware of what the packaged accounts came 
with each time she upgraded her account.
Due to the lack of available evidence, I do accept that its possible that Mrs B might not have 
been provided with all of the important information during each of the sales. But Ive not seen 
anything about Mrs Bs circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to them, had she been given more information about the account features and 
benefits. For example, Mrs B says that she already had breakdown cover for a period of 12 
months. But even if Mrs B didnt always need the breakdown cover included with the accounts (although I understand she did claim on this benefit) the accounts were sold as a 
package. This meant that Mrs B could not pick and choose what benefits they came with. 
Mrs B says that she was on crutches at the time so made limited use of the travel insurance. 
Unfortunately, its not clear over what period of time Mrs B is referring to or what she means 
by limited. But whilst I recognise that there mightve been periods of time when she was not 
planning on travelling (either because of injury or financial difficulties)  I cant say that this 
means Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably  especially when Mrs B chose to upgrade 
the packaged accounts, as far as I can see, in the knowledge that they contained varying 
levels of travel insurance.
Furthermore, I note that Mrs B has said shes made limited use of the account benefits. I 
appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs B may now feel that the accounts have 
been poor value for money for her over the years. But that doesnt mean that the package 
accounts were mis-sold. And bearing in mind that Mrs B has held fee-free accounts 
alongside the packaged accounts, ultimately, she has been free to downgrade her account 
at any time.
As such, based on everything I have seen, I am unable to say that the packaged accounts 
were mis-sold.
Difficulties in 2016
Looking at the letter that Mrs B sent to our service, it seems that Mrs Bs complaint is largely 
about how Lloyds dealt with her request for help in June 2016, rather than how the accounts 
were originally sold. In summary, Mrs B has said that she felt it was inappropriate that Lloyds 
had continued charging her for a Premier packaged account when shed explained to Lloyds 
that she was experiencing difficulties at the time and that she was a vulnerable consumer.
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Mrs B has already raised this specific complaint point 
with Lloyds in 2017. And Lloyds responded to Mrs Bs complaint in September 2017 and 
upheld her complaint. 
In its response to that complaint, Lloyds accepted that it shouldve done more to support Mrs 
B and shouldve discussed downgrading the account to a fee-free account. To put matters 
right, Lloyds agreed to:
Pay £100 for the trouble and upset the matter had caused;
Refund the Premier account fees from July 2016 (amounting to £400);
Pay £25 to cover the next account fee that would be due to be paid in November 
2017, this was to allow Mrs B time to choose what account she wanted to change 
to; and
Refund £31.85 in overdraft charges that were directly caused by the packaged 
account fees.
If Mrs B was unhappy with Lloyds response, she wouldve needed to have referred her 
complaint to our service within six months of the date of the letter (as the letter explained). 
However, as Mrs B has contacted our service a number of years since that letter was issued, 
that means I cant now consider whether Lloyds shouldve offered more redress to Mrs B in 
its response to that complaint. I say this especially as Mrs B has provided no explanation as 
to why she has waited so long to raise the matter again. 
I understand that since that letter was issued, Mrs B continued to pay the monthly Premier 
account fees and has not downgraded her account. On the contrary, she later went on to 
add an additional Club Lloyds packaged to her Premier account. 
I have considered whether these fees should be refunded. However, given that Lloyds had 
clearly explained how Mrs B could downgrade her account in its 2017 letter, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds should now refund the account fees Mrs B has paid since then 
because she chose to keep the Premier account (and even upgraded it again), rather than 
downgrade it to a fee-free account. 
Finally, I note that in her response to the adjudicators assessment, Mrs B added that Lloyds 
allowed her to go on to open two further current accounts that included visa debit cards. 
However, this complaint is only in relation to her packaged account. As such, if Mrs B is now 
also unhappy with Lloyds about other accounts it has provided her with, she will need to 
raise her concerns with Lloyds directly, as a separate complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman