DRN-2459212
The complaint
Mr R has complained Zopa Bank Limited continued to lend him money despite this lending 
being unaffordable.
What happened
Mr R took out 12 loans with Zopa between late 2015 and June 2018. All of these loans were 
for amounts in excess of £1,000 and five were for sums over £3,000. At the time he was 
using the money to pay off other debts and got into a cycle of taking out payday loans, as 
well as loans with Zopa, to repay what was owed.
In 2019 Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman service as Zopa argued theyd done 
nothing wrong.
Our investigator felt that Zopa had ignored Mr Rs situation and continue to lend to him  
including seven loans over a seven month period  without considering Mr R was borrowing 
to pay off other credit. She believed that Zopa should refund the interest Mr R had paid on 
these loans, along with £300 compensation for the distress caused.
Zopa was willing to repay the interest which was a small sum under £70. They quibbled 
about paying compensation and continued to feel Mr R had sufficient funds to repay his 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider Mr Rs 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Despite Zopa having conducted credit searches when lending to Mr R, they never identified 
the potential for him being stuck in a debt cycle. The monthly borrowing of very significant 
sums show Mr R was regularly borrowing  and mostly repaying  credit to repay other 
credit borrowing. His credit record shows regular smaller sums being borrowed from a 
payday lender in 2018. A couple of months earlier Mr R had been borrowing sums of £3,150 
in March, £5,140 in April, £3,040 in May and £3,320 in June 2018.
Like our investigator, I believe Zopa had more than enough opportunity to note what was 
going on. Ten loans were taken out from February 2017 until June 2018. This isnt what wed 
normally expect to see without a lender taking action to understand what was driving what 
appears to be rollover lending.
I appreciate Zopas comments that Mr R had adequate disposable income to cope with the 
lending he was taking out. But part of the key aspect for me is that all these loans were for a 
minimum of 12 months and a couple were for 24 and 36 months. Yet in most cases Mr R 
was repaying these promptly so I believe Zopa should have identified a pattern of 
unsustainable borrowing. He was obviously borrowing through other avenues to pay off this 
borrowing so quickly and Zopas continued lending lengthened this pattern. This added to Mr 
Rs distress.
It has taken Mr R a considerable time since this lending to get his financial situation on a 
satisfactory footing.
Putting things right
If a lender provides lending that is unsustainable  as Zopa did here  we normally ask them 
to reimburse interest that was added to the capital sums. We dont ask for the capital sums 
to be reimbursed as the customer has had the benefit of those.  
In this case I believe Zopa has agreed to pay back interest Mr R paid on the ten loans from 
February 2017. This is quite a small financial amount, although 8% simple interest will also 
need to be added to that.
It is therefore fair and reasonable that further compensation is paid for the distress caused to 
Mr R by the unsustainable lending he was able to make use of. I believe £300 is a fair and 
reasonable amount. I judge this to be low in cases where we have seen unsustainable 
lending in the past (and fits within our moderate banding rather than significant). This is 
because I have taken note of some of Zopas comments about Mr Rs financial situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Zopa Bank Limited to:
Repay any interest paid by Mr R on Zopa loans from February 2017 onwards;
Add 8% simple interest a year to those amount from the date Mr R paid them until 
the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr R £300 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman