DRN-2537868
The complaint
Ms A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
In bringing her complaint Ms A is represented. But as Ms A is the policyholder, I will refer to 
her throughout this decision. References to her will include what her representative has said 
on her behalf.
What happened
Ms As car insurance policy with Admiral started in March 2019. On 22 December 2019, her 
car was stolen. Ms A reported it to the police and to Admiral.
Ms A told Admiral she needed a courtesy car (CC) to keep mobile. But Admiral said, under 
her policy, she was only entitled to a CC if her car was being repaired by one of their 
approved repairers (AR) as a result of her car being damaged. As her car was stolen, she 
wasnt entitled to a CC under her policy.
On 6 January 2020, the police recovered Ms As car and stored it in one of their car pounds. 
Admiral contacted the police to retrieve the car and arranged one of their ARs to assess the 
damage before deciding what course of action to take. Admiral wrote to Ms A in 
January 2020, informing her that an AR had been instructed. But the police didnt release the 
car to Admiral because they were investigating the theft, therefore the AR couldnt get 
access to it.
On 25 March 2020, the police released the car to Admiral. Admirals AR decided the car was 
repairable and on 21 April 2020, Admiral authorised the car to be repaired. But it wasnt until 
1 May 2020, that Admiral gave Ms A a CC.
Ms A has two separate complaints arising from how Admiral dealt with her claim. She first 
complained while her car was still in police custody. She complained that she wasnt given a 
CC and that she wasnt kept updated about what was happening with her car. I have issued 
a separate decision for that complaint under a different case reference. I therefore wont be 
referring to that complaint in this decision.
In this decision I will deal with Ms As second complaint, which is as follows:
Admiral should have given her a CC earlier then they did.
Ms A asked Admiral multiple times to contact the police to release her car. But it was only 
after Ms A complained to the police that they released her car.
Ms A made a Subject Access Request (SAR) in April 2020, but Admiral have delayed in 
dealing with it.
Admiral asked Ms A to contact the police herself for information. But the police told her 
Admiral should be the one requesting information from them. And Admiral should know the 
process.
Part of the delay in her car being repaired was because a seat part was on back order. But 
Ms A contacted the cars manufacturer directly and was told a full replacement seat could 
be ordered quickly.
Admirals AR kept giving Ms A different timescales as to when her car would be repaired.
Admirals AR refused to give Ms A the part number of the outstanding part needed to finish 
the repair.
Admiral took too long to deal with the claim.
Admiral upheld Ms As complaint in part. They said:
They accepted they should have given Ms A a CC sooner then they did. They said they should 
have given the CC on 21 April 2020, the date when they authorised the repair of her car. As 
compensation for the inconvenience of not having a car between 21 April (when they should 
have given her the CC) and 1 May 2020 (when they did give her a CC) Admiral offered £110, 
which was £10 a day for 11 days.
A delay was caused because a seat part was on back order, which wasnt the ARs fault. The 
delay was made worse by the Covid-19 pandemic. While Admiral said the delay wasnt their 
or their ARs fault, they still upheld this part of the complaint because the delay affected Ms 
As claim journey. Admiral said it may have been the case that it would have been quicker to 
obtain a complete new seat. But the cost of doing that would have caused the cost of repair 
to rise which would have meant it would have been uneconomic to repair the car.
The AR did give Ms A differing timescales about when the outstanding part would be 
received and the repair completed. But that was because the AR relied on what they were 
told by their supplier, the main dealer. The outstanding part had to be sourced from abroad. 
Even though the problems relating to the outstanding part were out of the ARs control, and 
were made worse by the pandemic, Admiral upheld this part of the complaint because Ms A 
was inconvenienced.
Ms A made her claim on 22 December 2019, but it wasnt until the beginning of September 
2020 that the car was repaired and returned to her. Admiral accept it took a long time for 
the claim to be dealt with. But they said there were a number of reasons for the delays 
which were not their fault. Those included: the police involvement, investigation and their 
retention of the car for a number of months; a part being unavailable; the need for Admiral 
to investigate the claim; and the delay caused by the pandemic. Notwithstanding, Admiral 
accepted the claim took longer then they hoped it would therefore they upheld this part of 
Ms As complaint given she was impacted by the delay.
Admiral offered Ms A £200 compensation for the trouble and upset she experienced and a 
further £25 for Admirals delayed response to the complaint.
In relation to the aspects of Ms As complaint that Admiral didnt uphold, they said the 
following:
They did contact the police regularly to get the car released. But each time the police said 
the car couldnt be released as it was awaiting forensic examination. Admiral have no control 
over the police and cannot interfere with their investigation.
They passed on Ms As SAR application to the relevant department who wrote to Ms A 
asking for identification before they could proceed. But Ms A didnt provide any 
identification.
Admiral contacted the police to get a report from them which they needed to process the 
claim. This can sometimes take a very long time. But sometimes the police will provide the 
information to the owner of the car quicker, which is why Admiral asked Ms A to contact the 
police herself.If Ms A had asked the AR for the part number which the AR was having difficulty in 
obtaining, there is no reason why they wouldnt have given that information. The AR had no 
record of Ms A asking for it.
As Ms A wasnt happy with Admirals decision, she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Miss As complaint should be upheld in 
part, in particular in relation to when Admiral gave Ms A a CC. He felt Admiral should have 
given Ms A a CC on 25 March 2020, the day the car was released by the police. As Ms A 
told our service that she had to rent a car herself to keep mobile, our investigator 
recommended that Admiral pay her the reasonable hire charges she incurred. In other 
words, Admiral should pay her the cost of hiring a car similar to her own car at normal 
commercial rates for the 37 days between 25 March and 30 April 2020 (inclusive of those 
dates). Our investigator said Ms A should provide Admiral with receipts for the hire car 
before they make any payment. But if Ms A is unable to provide receipts, then Admiral 
should pay a total of £370 for the 37 days Admiral failed to provide a courtesy car. Our 
investigator felt the £225 compensation Admiral offered Ms A for the other issues was 
reasonable.
As Ms A didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms A, but Im only going to uphold her complaint in 
part for reasons similar to those given by our investigator. Ill explain why.
courtesy car
Ive seen from the notes that the police held Ms As car from 6 January 2020, when it was 
recovered, until 25 March 2020, when it was released to Admiral. That was over two and a 
half months. Ms A made it clear early on that she needed a replacement car. Ms A was only 
entitled to a CC under her policy when her car was being repaired by one of Admirals ARs. 
And until Admiral had the car and had it assessed, they couldnt have known whether it was 
in a state where it was repairable or whether it would be a total loss. And I can see from 
Admirals notes that as soon as they found out the car was recovered by the police in early 
January 2020, Admiral instructed one of the ARs to assess the car. They did that as they 
anticipated the car being released shortly.
But the car wasnt released for a while longer. However, Admiral kept the AR instructed. 
And, in fact, the AR was also making efforts to retrieve the car from the police on Admirals 
behalf. So, when the car was eventually released on 25 March, given the AR had already 
been instructed and was on standby, and given Admiral knew Ms A needed a replacement 
car, they should have acted faster. The repairs werent authorised until almost a month later 
on 21 April 2020. I think that wasnt reasonable and should have been done a lot sooner. 
And its not clear why, having authorised the repairs on 21 April that Admiral waited another 
ten days before they gave Ms A a CC on 1 May 2020. I therefore agree with our 
investigators recommendation that Admiral should pay the reasonable hire costs Ms A 
actually incurred in hiring her own replacement car. Reasonable is the cost of hiring a car 
similar to the one owned by Ms A at normal commercial rates. That should be for the 37 
days between 25 March and 30 April 2020 (inclusive of the start and end dates). If Ms A doesnt provide receipts to Admiral within 28 days of this decision, as suggested by 
our investigator, Admiral should pay Ms A a total of £370 which accounts for £10 a day for 
each of the 37 days she should have been given a CC. 
Finally, I understand that Ms A wasnt happy with the CC provided by Admiral on 
1 May 2020. It was smaller than her own car which was better suited for her familys needs. 
But the policy clearly said the CC to be provided wouldnt be a like for like car but a small 
car. So, Admiral acted in line with the policy in the type of car they gave Ms A.
the duration the car was kept by the police
Ms A said she asked Admiral multiple times to contact the police to release her car. But it 
was only after she complained to the police that they released her car.
I agree that the car was kept by the police for a very long time and this delayed matters quite 
a bit, and ultimately inconvenienced Ms A. But I have to look to see if Admiral were in 
anyway responsible for that. The notes Ive seen clearly show that Admiral contacted the 
police as soon as they found out that the police had recovered the car on 6 January 2020. 
And Admiral frequently contacted the police for information and to try and get the car 
released.
The police sometimes answered Admirals calls but they sometimes didnt. And as Admiral 
have told Ms A, on a number of occasions the police told Admiral that the car couldnt be 
released because it was awaiting forensic examination in relation to the theft. Admiral had no 
control over the action of the police, who were investigating the theft. From the evidence Ive 
seen Im satisfied Admirals actions were reasonable as they made frequent attempts to get 
the car released. Im therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
the SAR
Ms A said she made a SAR in April 2020, but Admiral have delayed in dealing with it. Ive 
seen that Admiral passed Ms As request to the relevant department who asked Ms A to 
provide identification before they could deal with her application. Admiral said the application 
couldnt be progressed as Ms A hadnt provided the necessary identification. I cant see that 
Admiral have done anything wrong here. But if Ms A wants to continue with this aspect of 
her complaint, she should raise it with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who deal 
with complaints about the personal information of individuals held by businesses. Their 
official website can be found at: https://ico.org.uk/.
Admiral told Ms A to contact the police herself
Its correct that where a consumer, like Ms A, makes a claim its for the insurer to investigate 
and gather the necessary information. And where there is a theft and the police are involved, 
insurers do ask the police for information.
But I think that where possible, consumers should take reasonable steps to help an insurer 
progress their claim. And in this instance Admiral did suggest to Ms A that it might speed 
things up in getting a police report if she contacted the police directly. It can sometimes take 
a very long time for insurers to obtain information from the police. It seems that Admiral felt it 
might speed things up if Ms A asked the police herself. So, I dont think they did anything 
wrong in asking Ms A if she would approach the police herself as they were merely trying to 
speed the process up, which is also what Ms A wanted.
issues with the ARIts correct that at least one part was on back order which caused delays to the repair 
process. The AR were trying to obtain the necessary parts from the main dealer and the part 
for the seat was eventually obtained from abroad.
Its not possible for mechanics and garages to stock all parts for vehicles. So, they will need 
to source parts for each repair job they get. And sometimes the suppliers of parts, and even 
the main dealers, can run out of parts. Its unfortunate that the repair of Ms As car coincided 
with the start of the Covid-19 pandemic which added to the delay in getting outstanding parts 
to complete the repair.
I can see that Ms A made her own efforts to help with the process. She was able to find a 
supplier who could provide a whole seat. But as Admiral explained, they only needed a part 
and were not looking to replace the whole seat. While replacing the whole seat might have 
sped up the repair process, Admiral explained that it would have also increased the cost of 
repair to the extent that it would have made the car uneconomic to repair. I therefore dont 
think they were unreasonable in refusing to replace the whole seat.
Ms A said she asked the AR for the part number of the outstanding part so she could try and 
source it herself. But she said the AR refused. The AR told Admiral that they had no record 
of Ms A having asked for the part number. And if she had, there was no reason why they 
would have refused to provide it. On balance there isnt sufficient evidence for me to find that 
Admirals AR refused to give Ms A the part number.
The AR said they did give Ms A a number of different timescales for when they expected the 
repair to be completed. But that was because they themselves were given different 
timescales from their supplier which also changed in a large part due to the disruption 
caused by the pandemic. It therefore seems that sourcing all the parts needed and the 
delays in doing so were out of Admirals and the ARs control. From the release of the car by 
the police at the end of March to the repair and return of it to Ms A in early September 2020, 
some six months had passed. Admiral accepted that was a long time. And while they 
explained the reasons for the delay, mainly due to the difficulty in getting some parts and the 
global pandemic, Admiral recognised the impact the delay had on Ms A and her family. And 
for that reason, they offered to pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced, which I think was reasonable. I should mention that during most of that 
time (from 1 May 2020 onwards) Admiral did provide Ms A with a CC which, while the car 
wasnt a like for like replacement with her own car, did keep her mobile. Admiral also offered 
£25 compensation for the delay in responding to her complaint, which I think was 
reasonable.
Overall, I find that Admirals total offer of £225 compensation is reasonable and Im not 
asking them to increase that.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Either pay Ms A the reasonable hire costs she actually incurred in hiring her own 
replacement car during the 37 days between 25 March and 30 April 2020 (inclusive of both 
dates). Reasonable means the cost of hiring a car similar to the one owned by Ms A at 
normal commercial rates. Admiral will only have to pay once Ms A provides them with 
receipts or proof of hire within 28 days of this decision.
Or, if Ms A doesnt provide Admiral with receipts or proof of hire within 28 days of this 
decision, pay Ms A a total of £370, which accounts for £10 a day for the 37 days she wasnt 
given a CC between 25 March and 30 April 2020 (inclusive of both dates).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman