DRN-3591885
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oplo PL Ltd, trading as Oplo lent to him irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated 
with the loan refunded.
What happened
In October 2019 Oplo approved a loan of £14,000 for Mr J, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at approximately £367 per month over a term of 72 months. The purpose of the 
loan was primarily to consolidate debt. When assessing the application, Oplo asked Mr 
J about his financial circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the 
lending.
Aside from a brief period of difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, it would 
appear that Mr J has maintained the account well, although a balance remains at this 
point, due to the term of the loan.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought Oplo shouldnt have approved the 
lending for Mr J. Oplo disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the valid points made by Oplo, Im upholding it, and Ill 
explain why.
Oplo is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr J 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, he needed to be able to meet him financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay Oplo for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did Oplo carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
The adjudicator thought that Oplo did enough checks when assessing this application, but 
that the information it gathered very strongly suggested the borrowing was neither affordable 
nor sustainable for Mr J. So, it should have declined the application based on what it had. Of 
primary concern was the amount of Mr Js monthly income that was needed to service all his 
debts, including this one, at around 40%.
Given the term of the loan, and the size of the repayment relative to Mr Js income, I think 
there could easily be an argument to say that Oplo ought to have gathered more information. 
However, as, ultimately, I agree with the adjudicator that Oplo had enough to suggest it 
shouldnt have approved the lending, this question makes no difference in this case.
Was Oplo right to conclude that the lending was affordable and sustainable for Mr J?
As mentioned above, our adjudicators concerns when upholding this complaint were 
focused around the fact that almost 40% of Mr Js income was needed for him to make 
repayments on his unsecured debt.
Oplo felt this focus was unfair, saying that this fact, should not be viewed in isolation but 
in the wider context of his overall financial position and the information available to us at the 
time In particular, Oplo has highlighted Mr Js disposable income, after the repayment for 
the loan in question was factored in, which it calculated via an income and expenditure (I&E) 
assessment to be around £315 per month. It says that indicated that the repayment was 
affordable and so the lending sustainable for Mr J.
I entirely agree that one issue should not be viewed in isolation, and have thought carefully 
about these submissions. I accept that the disposable income Oplo calculated is an 
important factor in this case.
However, there are several other elements Ive considered which essentially serve to 
undermine the I&E; flag financial risks for him; and cast doubt on the true extent of Mr Js 
disposable income.
Firstly, there is the question of Mr Js mortgage repayments. Oplo halved what he was 
actually liable to pay on the basis that half of the mortgage was paid by Mr Js partner, 
whose earnings it factored in, but only to this expense. There are several issues with this. 
Ultimately, his was a sole mortgage for which his partner had no responsibility. In the event 
that she had lost her job, or that their relationship broke down, Mr J would have been liable 
for the full amount. Not half. And indeed it is possible he already was paying all of it.
I note that nobody except Mr J was on the electoral register at his address at the time of the 
application. So that potentially calls into question the longevity and/or permanence of their 
cohabitation. I also have some concerns that none of the other household expenses appear 
to have been halved on the I&E, or an explanation for that provided in the application 
paperwork. Of course its entirely possible that Mr Js partner only contributed to the 
mortgage and none of the other standard household bills. It appears she earned less than 
him. But I cant ignore the possibility that there was an element of expedience for Oplo in 
this. I.e. that simply halving the mortgage repayment shown on the credit file was a quick 
and easy way to make this repayment seem affordable for Mr J. What is clear is that there 
was no thorough understanding of the impact of Mr Js partners earnings on his housing and 
other expenses when he made this application.
The issue of Mr Js partners income could theoretically have meant that this loan was 
actually more affordable for him than it seemed. If, for example, she was also paying half the household bills. But that hypothesis doesnt mitigate the multiple missing considerations from 
the ONS Data section of Oplos I&E. Im unclear whether this section contains any amounts 
disclosed by Mr J, or whether they are simply drawn from standard data produced by the 
Office for National Statistics. Regardless, they do not include several crucial expenses that 
would inevitably have arisen during the 6-year term of this loan. For example, there is no 
consideration of the need to buy clothes and shoes, or normal household goods. It is clear 
from Oplos file that Mr J and his partner had a child, as was set out in 2017 when Mr J 
applied for a loan not under consideration in this decision. And it is a reasonable assumption 
that that child lived with them by October 2019, given the adjustments made to the mortgage 
repayment set out above. There is no allowance made for dependents in this I&E, and any 
child would have placed an additional financial burden on Mr J. The age of the child is 
unknown, but there appears to have been no discussion about childcare costs, despite the 
fact that Mr Js partner was working and earning.
All of these issues serve, in the round, to flag multiple important unanswered questions 
about Mr Js financial situation at the time. And ultimately undermine the I&E and cast 
significant doubt on the plausibility of the disposable income calculated by Oplo. If he had 
needed to make the mortgage repayment himself, or if he or his child had needed a new 
coat or shoes, I think its likely that any disposable income would have been essentially 
wiped out.
Therefore, in addition to the fact that a comparatively large proportion of Mr Js monthly 
income was needed to service debt, I conclude that there were other grounds for concern 
about the sustainability of this repayment for him over the term of the loan. On balance, I 
dont think this borrowing could have been described as affordable and sustainable for him. 
Oplo has pointed out that, apart from the reduced payments he made as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, Mr J has successfully maintained the account. Which demonstrates that 
the borrowing was affordable and sustainable. In addition to that being a point made with the 
benefit of hindsight, I dont accept that conclusion, as I cannot know how Mr J has 
successfully maintained the account. As set out at the start of this decision, to be affordable 
and sustainable under the relevant regulations, Mr J must be able to repay the debt whilst 
meeting all his other financial commitments, and without borrowing elsewhere. So the mere 
fact that he has managed to make his repayments to Oplo does not necessarily mean that 
the borrowing could reasonably be described as affordable and sustainable. It therefore 
follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
As I understand it, the loan is still running and being serviced by Mr J. On that basis, I direct 
Oplo to do the following:
A) Oplo must restructure the account to remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan.
B) If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Oplo 
should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr J. I remind it of its obligation to treat him 
fairly in so doing.D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman