DRN-2689228
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Blue Insurance Limited trading as Economycover.com (Blue) 
didnt award him enough compensation, after a refund of premium he was due to receive 
was slightly delayed. 
What happened
Mr Ys travel insurance renewed, and following a telephone conversation it was agreed that 
an amendment of cover would generate a partial refund of £18.99. Blue said it would 
process the refund and it would take 3-5 days. 
Initially Mr Y was told the refund would be paid into his Paypal account. However, Blue then 
decided this wasnt possible, and it contacted Mr Y straight away for his bank account 
details. 
Six days later Mr Y realised he hadnt received the refund, so he followed this up with a 
telephone call. During this call Mr Y was told the refund hadnt yet been processed, and he 
was asked again for his bank details. At this point Mr Y complained about the delay and the 
process. The next day he received a call from a manager in Blue who processed the refund 
immediately into his Paypal account and offered Mr Y £6 for the inconvenience hed 
suffered.
However, Mr Y was unhappy with the amount being offered, and he raised a complaint with 
Blue. Blue reviewed the complaint and acknowledged that there was a delay. But it said that 
due to Covid19 it was dealing with unprecedented volumes of calls, and unfortunately delays 
could not be avoided. It felt that the delays were not excessive. But it made the payment of 
£6 to Mr Y for the inconvenience.
But Mr Y remained unhappy. He said he was very disappointed. He said hed been 
incorrectly advised by Blue and hed had to follow up the refund. He said if he hadnt 
followed up the refund it might never have been received, and that £6 was insulting. He said 
he wouldve been satisfied with £20 for the inconvenience, but as Blue was unwilling to 
increase its offer, he wanted £100 in compensation. 
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied that 
Blue had done enough and didnt uphold the complaint. 
But Mr Y doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im not going to set out the timeline of events here in full. Everyone agrees there was a slight 
delay, and Mr Y had to chase the refund. The evidence would also suggest that Blue asked 
for details that were unnecessary. But the portion of premium that was being refunded, was 
paid into Mr Ys Paypal account, seven days after it was requested.
The issue here is the compensation awarded for the delay. Mr Y doesnt think its enough. 
If we decide that a financial business has done something wrong  and its customer has lost 
out as a result  we'll tell the business what it should do to put things right. As well as looking 
at whether someone's lost out financially, we would also look to address the emotional or 
practical impact of a business's mistake. This impact could be distress, inconvenience, pain 
and suffering or damage to reputation. And under the rules DISP 3.7.2 R of the regulators 
handbook we can award fair compensation that's a proportionate reflection of the impact a 
business's actions (or inaction) had on its customer.
When we're deciding how to sort out a complaint, we always consider whether it's fair to 
award compensation. It isn't intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the 
regulator. But when something's gone wrong, a business's recognition of the emotional and 
practical impact can make a real difference  and help their customer move on from what's 
happened.
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on the customer. We're 
all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other people, 
businesses and organisations. For us to award compensation, we need to decide that the 
impact of a business's actions has been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset.
Blue says it was going through a time when call volumes wouldve been at an 
unprecedented high due to Covid19 and government-imposed changes to its working 
environment. So, I can see why there might have been a delay. But on the other hand, I can 
see that Mr Y was inconvenienced by having to contact Blue and chase the refund. But even 
though Blue delayed the refund, and Mr Y had to chase it, the money was refunded within 
seven days of the original request. And given the circumstances at the time, I wouldnt 
consider this to be a significant delay. 
I appreciate it was annoying for Mr Y to have to chase this refund. But this is not a scenario 
where I would ask a business to pay compensation. There is no evidence on file that the 
delay has had a significant impact on Mr Y, and as I said before were not here to fine or 
punish a business.
I appreciate Mr Y will be disappointed with this outcome. He says he wouldve been happy 
with £20 and hes asked for £100. Hes also expressed concern about what mightve 
happened if he hadnt chased the refund. But we dont consider compensation awards for 
what mightve happened. Based solely on the facts presented in this case, this is not a 
scenario where I feel a compensation payment for distress and inconvenience is warranted. I 
do note that Blue has paid Mr Y £6 as a token acknowledgement of the delay. But I wont be 
asking Blue to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 Derek Dunne
Ombudsman