DRN-3942225
The complaint
Mr C complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund disputed payments made from his
account.
What happened
Mr C says that on 10 September 2022 fraudulent transactions totalling around £352 were 
made from his Wise account using the electronic wallet on his phone. Mr C believes his 
account was compromised as he says he did not authorise these payments. The payments 
did not show up in the transaction history on his phones electronic wallet and Mr C says this 
is evidence that his Wise card was somehow compromised, and perhaps added to another 
device so the payments could be made.
Wise investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payments. It didnt agree that the 
transactions were indicative of fraud. It thought Mr C had authorised the payments or made 
them himself because, it said:
- the transactions were carried out using Mr Cs genuine card details
- the transactions were made using Mr Cs registered device
- the transactions were made from an IP address that has also been used for previous, 
undisputed, payments and from which Mr C had logged into his mobile banking
- two of the disputed payments were to a merchant Mr C had used before
Mr C didnt agree with Wises decision, so he asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they felt it
was more likely that Mr C had authorised the transactions or allowed them to be made, for
largely the same reasons that Wise had set out.
Mr C disagreed, he maintains that he did not make the payments. He says this was a known 
issue with the electronic wallet he was using and noted that further payments had been 
attempted once his card had been frozen.
Because no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the Investigator previously set out.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking
Mr C is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. So, the 
key question here is whether Wise has acted fairly in concluding that Mr C did authorise the 
disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine card details were used
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not,
on its own, enough to enable Wise to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the payments 
being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Wise to conclude that Mr C 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
- Mr C has said nobody else has access to his phone and that it is protected with face 
recognition and a passcode
- Wises evidence shows that the disputed payments were made using Mr Cs phone
- Wise has provided evidence to show that the disputed payments were made from an 
IP address that Mr C had previously made payments from and had also previously 
logged into his Wise account from
I appreciate that Mr C feels there were known issue with the electronic wallet he was using 
which may have meant his card details were not secure, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
his card was compromised. And the evidence I have seen suggests that, in order for 
someone other than Mr C to have made these payments they would need to have had 
access to his phone, know his passcode, and be in the same physical location as he had 
recently been in. That does not seem to be plausible given what Mr C has told us.
So Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that, on balance, its more likely that Mr C
authorised the disputed payments. It follows that Wise is entitled to hold him liable for
them. I note that Mr C says there were further attempted payments after his card had been 
frozen, but that does not change my finding that the payments that were made were more 
likely than not authorised by Mr C.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr C, but I hope he will understand the reasons for
my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman