DRN-1680432
 
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that, when he switched to a new mortgage product, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
incorrectly calculated his monthly mortgage repayment. He is asking Barclays to pay him 
compensation of £1,200.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr Ms Barclays mortgage product was coming to an end. He wanted to 
switch to a new product and discussed his requirements with Barclays. Mr M selected a new 
product, a 30year fixed rate beginning 1 January 2019. He was told the monthly repayment 
would be about £890 per month for 29 months. His monthly payment on the product that was 
coming to an end was just over £1,077 per month.
But on 31 December 2018 Mr M received a letter from Barclays showing the monthly 
repayment would be £1,083 per month. 
On 2 January 2019 Mr M made a capital reduction to his mortgage of £6,595. He then 
received a letter saying hed have to pay about £995 per month.
Mr M complained to Barclays. He said he is on a tight budget and that if Barclays figures are 
correct, then this will affect his budget for the entire year.
Barclays looked into what had happened. On 15 January 2019 the bank explained to Mr M 
that at the time he spoke to Barclays in October 2018, his account showed an overpayment 
of about £16,000. This hadnt been factored into the calculations for the new product, but 
because this is money that Mr M could, if he wanted, request back, Barclays system had 
included it when it calculated the new monthly repayment at the end of December 2018.
So the monthly repayment was calculated on a notional balance that was £16,000 higher 
than the actual balance, as Barclays system had to factor in the possibility that Mr M might 
borrow back the £16,000.
Barclays offered two options to Mr M. He could keep the monthly repayments at the higher 
amount, which would pay off the mortgage more quickly. Or the £16,000 could be 
capitalised, in which case Mr M would not be able to borrow it back, but it would reduce the 
monthly payment to the figure hed been expecting from the October 2018 calculations. 
Barclays also said it would pay Mr M compensation of £200.
Mr M asked for time to consider these options, but said that hed been expecting 
compensation of £1,200. Mr M also asked for a final response letter so he could complain to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.Mr M complained to us. The investigator acknowledged that Barclays had offered to put 
matters right, but didnt think £200 compensation was sufficient. He asked the bank to pay a 
further £100.
The investigator also thought that Mr M should be allowed to shop around for a new 
mortgage product and if he found a product that suited him better, Barclays should waive the 
early repayment charge (ERC) on his current product.
Barclays didnt agree with this. The bank said that, once Mr M had contacted it, the issue 
had been quickly identified and a solution to rectify the problem had been put forward. 
Barclays thought £200 compensation was sufficient. Barclays also disagreed that Mr M 
should be allowed to repay the mortgage within the fixed rate period without incurring an 
ERC.
Because the complaint is unresolved, its been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Barclays has accepted that it made an error when initially calculating Mr Ms mortgage 
payments on his new product in October 2018. Barclays should have factored in the 
overpayments already made of about £16,000, because that money is available to Mr M to 
draw down at any time, should he wish to do so. Because the £16,000 was initially left off the 
calculation, Mr M was given an incorrect figure for his mortgage repayment. He wasnt given 
the correct figure until just before his new product was due to begin.
Given this, I dont need to establish whats gone wrong, as Barclays doesnt dispute it made 
a mistake. What I need to consider is whether Barclays has done enough to put things right.
Barclays has said that, in order to keep the mortgage payments at the amount quoted in 
October 2018 (about £890), the £16,000 overpayment would have to be capitalised. 
Alternatively, Mr M could continue to pay the higher amount, in which case his mortgage 
would be paid off more quickly.
The investigator has confirmed to me that Mr M hasnt suggested he wants to move to a new 
mortgage product, and that it was his suggestion, not Mr Ms, that Mr M should be allowed to 
move mortgage products without paying an ERC. Given this, I can see no basis upon which 
it would be fair or reasonable to order Barclays to waive the ERC. 
Im satisfied that these are both reasonable options. The first would have the effect of 
reducing the mortgage payments to the figure Mr M initially thought hed be paying; the 
second would leave him paying about the same as hed been paying before he switched 
products, but reducing his capital balance more quickly, and leaving the £16,000 
overpayment untouched. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays is required to do 
anything further.
With regard to compensation for trouble and upset, I note that, once Mr M complained to 
Barclays, within two weeks the issue was identified and Mr M was presented with the above 
two options. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the offer of compensation of £200 made by 
Barclays is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the trouble and upset caused to Mr M.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the options 
for redress offered by Barclays Bank PLC (as set out above) and the compensation for 
trouble and upset of £200 are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it 
to Mr M to decide whether he wants to accept this in full and final settlement of his 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that I will not be entering into any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint nor engaging in any discussion with the parties about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman