DRN-2753300
The complaint
Mr A complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions (Curtis) 
will not allow him to sell unlisted shares in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr A said he has a SIPP with Curtis which contained a portfolio of equities and cash. He 
administered it himself via a third party. Curtis were not involved other than as pension 
administrator. The share portfolio included a stock that was de -listed in the UK, subject to 
legal action and had no value. He wanted to change his SIPP to a new provider but its new 
pension administrator wouldnt accept the stock. Mr A wanted to encash the stock to allow 
the transfer to proceed but that wasnt possible due to problems in demonstrating the value 
of the stock.
Curtis said requested a valuation to demonstrate the market value. Mr A had provided two, 
but both were rejected by Curtis, in part because they werent based on current financial 
information. He said Curtis had confirmed that no financial information was available for the 
stock so their request wasnt reasonable. Curtis wanted either a valuation based on current 
financial information (which didnt exist), or suggested he left the stock in the SIPP with 
Curtis, which would be closed but subject to a fee or find another SIPP provider who would 
accept a transfer of the stock.
Mr A thought these options were unfair and unreasonable. He had paid for two valuations, 
used a lot of time and was no further forward. He also had uninvested contributions held by 
Curtis. He wanted Curtis to transfer the stock to his dealing account and complete the 
transfer to the new provider. He then didnt wish to pay any further charges. He wanted it to 
release his contributions for investment and make a voluntary donation to charity. Mr A felt 
that if HMRC challenged the transfer they would challenge him and not Curtis.
Curtis said the transfer of the stock to his dealing account was a connected party 
transaction. It needed a valuation before it could transfer the stock to confirm the market 
value. Its checks showed the company was active but had no available financial information. 
It offered three options. To transfer at market value based on a review of financial 
information that showed the market value for the purposes of section 272 of the Taxation of 
Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to leave the stock in a closed SIPP or transfer to another 
provider that would accept the stock. It was sorry it couldnt help further but it was required to 
comply with pension legislation.
The investigator didnt think he could ask Curtis to do anything further. It had given Mr A 
several options, but these were not acceptable to Mr A and his receiving scheme was unable 
to accept the transfer for the stock. He couldnt expect Curtis to proceed in a manner that 
didnt comply with HMRC rules.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the stock was shown as having a nil value, there was no financial 
information available for his accountant to review and he had offered to sell the shares for a 
nominal amount, but this was declined so they were demonstrably worthless. How could 
they show the shares had anything other than a zero value? 
The investigator responded that the argument wasnt that the stock had a zero value but that 
the absence of financial information meant it wasnt possible to satisfy the HMRC rules. Just 
because Curtis wouldnt buy the shares at a nominal value didnt demonstrate they had no 
value. 
Mr A still didnt agree and said his account showed the stock at nil value so this must be 
what Curtis felt was correct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration. He wishes to transfer his SIPP to a new provider whose 
fees are lower. However, Mr As new provider wont accept a transfer of the stock in specie 
which means it needs to be encashed before transfer. It is this refusal by the new provider 
that is driving the need to realise the stock.
In order to uphold this compliant I need to conclude that Curtis has done something wrong in 
preventing that realisation.
This service cannot direct Curtis how it operates its business. I can see that Curtis has 
offered Mr A several options. I think it has made reasonable proposals to assist Mr A. It is 
unfortunate that these are not acceptable to Mr A, but that isnt the fault of Curtis. 
Curtis maintains that the absence of relevant financial information to satisfy the provisions of 
the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 prevent it from proceeding in the manner Mr A 
wishes. I dont think that conclusion is unreasonable, and this service cannot direct it how to 
interpret the requirements imposed by HMRC. So, I think Curtis has acted reasonably in 
rejecting the information provided by Mr A to date.
Curtis has also indicated that with respect to the cash held in Mr As investment account 
there is nothing to prevent him from giving instructions regarding its ongoing investment. 
So, while I entirely understand Mr As frustration, I am unable to uphold his complaint as I 
dont think Curtis has acted unreasonably. But I do appreciate that leaves him unable to 
transfer to his proposed new provider.
I wold comment that the challenge of dealing with unlisted shares is not an uncommon issue. 
If Mr A wishes to pursue the matter further, he could perhaps approach HMRC direct to see 
if it can assist.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman