DRN-2837732
The complaint
Mrs K is a sole trader. She complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly turned 
down her business protection insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs K had the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Covea and claimed on 
her policy after she was impacted by the Government-imposed lockdown in response to 
COVID-19. Covea said the policy didnt cover Mrs Ks claim because COVID-19 wasnt 
included in the list of specified illnesses covered by the policy.
As Covea refused to pay Mrs Ks claim, she brought the complaint to our service as she 
believed Covea was acting unreasonably in declining the claim.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ks complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
he didnt think COVID-19 had caused damage to property or that it was covered under the 
list of specified illnesses covered by the policy. Mrs K asked for the case to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mrs Ks business, but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.  
Mrs K is looking to claim on her business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether Covea acted fairly in declining Mrs Ks claim, the starting point is to consider the 
specific policy she took out. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ks policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of her business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Mrs Ks policy included cover for compulsory closure. The policy states that it would provide 
cover for loss resulting from disruption to business in consequence of the compulsory 
closure of the premises by order of any competent public authority followingthe occurrence 
at the premises of any outbreak of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease.
The policy provides a definition for the term notifiable human infectious or contagious 
disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the policy. 
However, COVID-19 isnt on that list and the policy states that no other diseases could be 
added to that list without its prior written consent.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Ks policy is not like this  rather it 
sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge.
The other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover require there to be 
physical damage to property in order for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I dont think 
COVID-19 caused physical damage to property, I dont think these terms provide cover in 
these circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mrs K. But 
for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I 
dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman