DRN-3520919
The complaint
Ms F complains about how she was treated by Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway 
(Moneyway) when she couldnt afford to make the payments on her agreement.
What happened
In January 2017, Ms F was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Moneyway. The agreement was for £15,287 over 60 months, with 59 monthly payments of 
£252 and a final payment of £262.  
Ms F said that her job ended in December 2019. She said she was offered a new job to start 
in March 2020. But she said this didnt happen because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
She said she informed Moneyway, and sought the help of a money advice service.
She was also unhappy that Moneyway had instructed a third party debt collector. She said 
they tried to repossess the vehicle. She said she stopped this happening because shed paid 
more than one third of the total cost of the agreement.
She said she thought shed cleared the arrears but was told she still owed more than £1,700. 
She said Moneyway threatened again to repossess the car.
She said they hadnt been helpful, and the stress theyd caused her had triggered a flare up 
of her Rheumatoid Arthritis. 
Moneyway said Ms Fs account went into arrears in February 2020. They said they tried to 
contact her by telephone and by post, but the attempts were unsuccessful. They said they 
hadnt received a payment since December 2019, so they issued a default notice on 5 March 
2020 and then terminated the agreement on 6 April 2020.
They said Ms F contacted them that day to tell them she had been out of work. They agreed 
to provide a three month payment holiday as Ms F told them she was due to start a new job.
They said they spoke with Ms F in July 2020 and August 2020 when she told them she 
hadnt started the new job because of issues related to the Covid 19 pandemic. They said 
Ms F emailed them to ask for further payment holidays, and that they had tried to contact her 
to discuss her circumstances and determine if the financial difficulties were likely to be long 
term.
They said Ms F made payments towards the agreement in November 2020 and December 
2020. They said they were unable to contact Ms F, and werent able to assess her financial 
situation.
They said theyd also employed third party companies to contact Ms F on their behalf but 
that was also unsuccessful.
In September 2021 they told Ms F the arrears on the agreement were more than £2,000, 
that they hadnt received a payment since July 2021, and that they may repossess the car. 
They said Ms F made some more occasional payments, but no payment arrangement was 
ever put in place.
They said Ms F settled the agreement in full on 9 February 2022. They confirmed that 
charges for the work of the third parties wasnt included in the settlement amount.
Our investigator said she didnt think Moneyway had done anything wrong. She felt that 
Moneyway had considered the change in Ms Fs circumstances and allowed a payment 
holiday. She felt it was reasonable for them to terminate the agreement because Ms F had 
not stayed in touch with them. And because they then agreed a payment holiday when Ms F 
contacted them demonstrated they were prepared to give her more time to improve her 
financial situation.
She also said that it was reasonable for Moneyway not to grant a further payment holiday 
without further information about Ms Fs financial situation at the time. 
Ms F didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Moneyways aggressive, bullying and 
oppressive tactics directly resulted in a flare up of her medical condition. 
Because Ms F didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms F was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
I know this has been a very difficult and stressful time for Ms F. And I understand that this 
has had an impact on her health. But I need to consider whether or not Moneyway has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. I dont think they have. Ill explain why.
Ms F contacted Moneyway on 25 January 2020 to tell them shed lost her job. She said 
shed call them back in February 2020 to update them. But it looks like she didnt contact 
them until 6 April 2020, after theyd issued a notice of termination.
Ive considered whether the contact Moneyway made with Ms F was unreasonable, and I 
dont think it was.I can see that they sent three arrears letters to Ms F in February 2020. The first of these was 
sent on 11 February 2020  the day after Ms F had told them she would call to provide an 
update on her job situation. So I think it was reasonable for them to send this letter after she 
failed to contact them. Further letters were sent on 18 February 2020 and 25 February 2020, 
as they still hadnt heard from Ms F. These letters stated the amount of arrears and invited 
Ms F to contact them. The third letter also informed her of the impact of failing to pay.
And when no payment was made, and no contact was received, Moneyway issued a Notice 
of Sums in Arrears, followed by a default notice, and then on 31 March 2020 a letter before 
action warning Ms F that they may repossess the car if no contact is made.
And when no response was received, they notified Ms F on 6 April 2020 of their intention to 
terminate the agreement. I dont think that was unfair given they received no payments, and 
no response from Ms F to any of the correspondence. 
Payment Deferral
When Ms F did contact them on 6 April 2020, they noted Ms Fs difficulties were related to 
the Covid 19 pandemic. And they granted her a three month payment holiday. They did this 
even though the temporary guidance from The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the 
industry regulator, didnt come into effect until later in the month. The guidance was aimed at 
customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. 
The guidance was intended for customers who were facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. It wasnt intended for customers like Ms F who 
were already in financial difficulty. The guidance explained that for these customers the 
normal FCA guidance would apply, and firms like Moneyway should  consider other means, 
such as  suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
deferring payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
Ms F had missed payments regularly since the beginning of the year. Her employment and 
financial situation may have worsened due to the pandemic, but Im satisfied she was 
already in financial difficulty. The fact that Moneyway agreed her request for a three month 
payment holiday at this time satisfies me that they were treating her fairly. 
Ms F wrote to Moneyway in August 2020 requesting a further payment holiday as her 
situation hadnt changed. They replied saying theyd like to speak to her to consider her 
circumstances. Again, I dont think this was unreasonable. They needed to fully understand 
her circumstances so that they could consider the best options for her. Ms F says she 
engaged with money advice services. She couldve made time to speak to Moneyway after 
shed received advice from those services.
No payments were made to the account until November 2020. By this time there was 
significant arrears due.
I explained above that because the temporary guidance didnt apply in Ms Fs 
circumstances, the normal FCA guidance would apply. This required Moneyway to treat 
customers like Ms F, who are in arrears or in default, with forbearance and due 
consideration. This means they should treat customers fairly. But to do so they need to get 
an understanding of the customers circumstances.Ms F didnt engage with Moneyway. She told them in January 2020, April 2020, and August 
2020, that she couldnt make the payment. But she didnt provide any further information. 
Moneyway sought to contact Ms F by several means, including using the services of third 
party companies. But she didnt provide any information that would allow them to consider 
what was the best option for her. This couldve included allowing arrears to be deferred, or 
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time  perhaps until she started the job 
shed been promised.
If she had responded I wouldve expected them to explain the various exit options available 
to Ms F. These are early settlement, voluntary termination, and voluntary surrender  and  
each has different liabilities for customers. But they would have been better for Ms F than 
the agreement being terminated by Moneyway.
So I think the steps they took to inform Ms F of the arrears, and the consequences of not 
paying were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im satisfied that Moneyway made reasonable attempts to contact Ms F. When she failed to 
respond, and because there was a history of missed payments since January 2020, it was 
also reasonable for them to engage a third party to attempt contact.
Health
I can see that Ms F informed Moneyway in August 2020 that she had rheumatoid arthritis. 
She explained this was the reason why she needed the car. She didnt tell them that the 
stress of the situation was causing flare ups of her condition. So I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect them to take different steps.
It wasnt until October 2021 that she informed them that their attempts to repossess were 
increasing the stress she was already feeling, and making her condition worse. This was 
after theyd sent their final response letter. In this letter theyd reminded her that no payment 
had been made since July 2021, and invited her to consider the voluntary surrender option 
as this may limit her liability.
Ive not seen any correspondence that was inappropriate or unduly threatening. And Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me that Moneyways sole intention was to repossess the 
car.
It appears that Ms F engaged with Moneyway in January 2022, after shed started work. And 
the agreement has now been settled. And Im satisfied that the settlement amount didnt 
include any extra charges arising from the use of third parties.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc 
trading as Moneyway.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman