DRN-2799259
The complaint
Mr G complained that he was mis-sold a Guaranteed Over 50s Plan by a company that has 
since been acquired by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mr G took out a Guaranteed Over 50s Plan in February 1999. The plan offered a guaranteed 
sum assured of £5,705, for a monthly premium of £30, if he died while the plan was in force. 
The sum assured would be tripled if Mr G died as a result of an accident while travelling in 
several specified circumstances.
 
Mr G surrendered his plan in July 2020 for £3,354.54. At that point Mr G had paid in more 
than £7,000 in premiums. 
Mr Gs daughter (who Ill refer to as Mrs C), complained on Mr Gs behalf that the plan had 
been mis-sold. Mrs C said her father had not been made aware when buying the plan that 
he could pay more in premiums than the plan would pay out on his death. She said had 
Mr G been aware of this he wouldnt have taken out the plan. So, she argued the plan had 
been mis-sold. She asked Aviva to return the premiums paid plus interest and compensation 
for the mis-selling. 
Aviva rejected Mr Gs complaint. It explained the plan had been sold on a non-advised basis. 
This meant Mr G wouldve been provided with information about the plan benefits and key 
features at the time of sale. It would then have been up to him to decide if the plan met his 
needs. It noted that following a recent review, Aviva had decided to make the plan terms 
more favourable to the policyholders. 
Mrs C referred a complaint to our service on her fathers behalf. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She noted that due to the time that had elapsed since the plan was 
sold there was limited documentation from time of the sale. But she was persuaded it was 
more likely than not Mr G would have been provided with enough information to enable him 
to make an informed decision on whether the plan met his needs. 
Mrs C, on behalf of Mr G, disagreed and asked for the case to be considered by an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I do understand Mrs Cs concerns and why she feels strongly that her father 
has been treated unfairly, particularly as hes now received less from the plan than he paid 
in. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ive not seen any documentary evidence from Aviva specific to Mr Gs plan. Nor have I
been able to listen to the phone call from when the plan was sold. This isnt unusual. The 
plan was sold more than 20 years ago and the business responsible for the sale has 
changed more than once. Businesses arent expected to keep information indefinitely, and 
the absence of information isnt enough reason for me to uphold a complaint. Id have to be 
persuaded that Avivas predecessor had failed in its responsibilities when selling the plan, 
and Im not sufficiently persuaded this happened. 
I appreciate its came as a surprise to Mr G to learn hed paid in more to the plan than would 
be paid out on his death. But Ive seen nothing to suggest he was told at the point of sale 
that hed be guaranteed to get back what he paid. I think its also unlikely Mr G wouldve 
been told this, as it would go against a basic principle of insurance. While I can appreciate 
his disappointment, I cant hold Aviva responsible if Mr G made an incorrect assumption 
about how the plan worked. 
Aviva has provided us with examples of marketing information and plan documentation of 
the kind Mr G would most likely have been sent  this included a marketing leaflet, a plan 
schedule, acceptance letter and In Plain English booklet.  
While I dont know exactly what Mr G received, I think its most likely he wouldve been given 
some documentation of the type Aviva has provided to me. The examples Aviva have 
provided show the key selling points of the plan at the time was that it would provide a 
guaranteed sum assured for a fixed monthly premium. The example leaflet Aviva has 
provided explains: 
The Guaranteed Over 50 Plan gives you lifelong protection, lifelong peace of mind. 
However, as the Guaranteed Death Benefit is a fixed sum, the total premiums paid could 
eventually be greater. To find out how many years your own plan would have to be in force 
before your total premiums paid would be great than the Guaranteed Death Benefit, all you 
have to do is multiply your monthly premium by 12 to find out the annual premium, then 
divide this amount into your Guaranteed Death Benefit.
If Mr G hadnt received any documentation, Id have expected him to challenge this at the 
time. Ive seen nothing to suggest this happened.   
It would seem Mrs Cs main concern is with the overall fairness of the plan, in so far as 
policyholders can pay in more than they get out. While it may be the case, with the benefit of 
hindsight, that Mr G wouldve been better off paying into an alternative savings or investment 
scheme, this doesnt mean the plan was inherently unfair. 
Had Mr G died in the early years of the plan Aviva wouldve paid out more than
hed paid in. But, equally, there was always a risk that Mr G might need to continue paying
premiums to a point where hed paid more than the sum assured. That sort of risk is part of
the very nature of insurance.
As Ive said, while I understand Mr G and Mrs Cs concerns that doesnt necessarily mean 
Aviva has done anything wrong. And if it hasnt acted incorrectly or unfairly  and I dont 
think it has  Im unable to direct it to do anymore in respect of Mr Gs plan.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman