DRN-2695388
The complaint
This complaint is about an erroneous pending pre-authorisation transaction.
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt prevent nor remove the pending 
transaction made on his credit card account to a retailer.  He also complains HSBC didnt 
offer him a temporary increase to his credit limit whilst the error was being resolved.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
On 6 May 2020, a pending pre-authorisation transaction was made on Mr Bs credit card 
account to a retailer I will refer to as A in this decision.  The pending transaction significantly 
reduced the credit available on Mr Bs account.  In June and July 2020, Mr B says he 
received text messages from HSBC warning him that he was approaching his credit limit, 
which he started making manual payments towards.  He says he then discovered his credit 
limit was low due to the pending transaction to A.  
Mr B contacted HSBC about this.  He informed it that he had not made a card payment to A 
on 6 May 2020, and therefore requested that HSBC remove the pending transaction from his 
account.  HSBC explained that A had caused the pending transaction, and that it was not 
able to remove it.  Mr B requested a temporary increase to his credit limit until the issue was 
resolved, which HSBC declined.  For these reasons, Mr B raised a complaint.
In short, HSBC says A caused an industry wide issue by applying authorisations to several 
customers cards.  It says A was at fault and that the matter was escalated with card scheme 
providers so they could intervene to resolve things directly with A.
Unhappy with HSBCs position, Mr B referred his complaint to this service.
In Mr Bs submissions, he raised the following:
Why did HSBC allow the pending transaction to be made without a one-time 
passcode (OTP) or his physical card being present?
Why did HSBC allow the pending transaction to continue after the general 30-day 
limit?
Why cant HSBC now resolve the issue by cancelling the pending transaction?
Why cant HSBC alternatively resolve the issue by providing a temporary increase to 
his credit limit equivalent to the erroneous pending transaction amount?
Since Mr B referred his complaint to our service, HSBC says the pending transaction has 
dropped off his account.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it.  In short, he said 
based on the evidence he had seen, he was satisfied that the pending transaction was not 
caused by HSBC, and that there wasnt a resolution it could have found to resolve things.  
He said that a OTP is not used for every transaction, so he wouldnt have expected one to 
have been used for the pending transaction.  Our investigator also concluded that HSBC did 
what he wouldve expected it to do regarding declining Mr Bs request to increase his credit 
limit.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings.  He provided lengthy submissions explaining 
why, which I will address in more detail in the below section of my decision.  However, a 
summary of Mr Bs points can be found at paragraph 3 of his submissions: 
I do not believe that HSBCs actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances in 
accordance with Section 226(2) FSMA 2000, for the following reasons: 
a) HSBC failed to undertake adequate security checks prior to accepting the erroneous 
£1,777 pre-authorisation request from [A]; 
b) HSBC should have cleared the pre-authorisation after 30 days or (alternatively) when it 
was told/knew that it was erroneous; 
c) If HSBC could not in fact clear the pre-authorisation, it should have provided a temporary 
(nominal) increase to my credit limit to cover the erroneous amount. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail 
than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is 
a submission Ive not addressed, it isnt because Ive ignored the point.  Its simply because 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr B didnt use his card to make a payment to A on 6 May 2020.  With 
that in mind, I will deal with Mr Bs complaint points as follows:
Could HSBC have prevented the pending transaction?
If not, could HSBC have removed the pending transaction?
If not, should HSBC have provided Mr B with a temporary increase to his credit limit?
Prevention of the pending transaction
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that A are responsible for the pending transaction 
on Mr Bs account.Mr B has provided what he says is an extract from HSBCs website.  The extract states, 
broadly, that when HSBCs customers make online purchases with their cards, they may be 
asked to enter a OTP if HSBC needs to check the purchase is genuine; this is to keep its 
customers safe online.  Mr B says HSBC failed to request a OTP in-line with the website 
extract when the pending transaction was made.  So, he argues that HSBC has breached 
PRIN 2.1.1(6) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook; and alternatively, it did not act 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Having considered what Mr B has said, Im unable to agree.  I say this because Ive seen 
technical evidence showing that its the retailer (in this case, A) which decides whether a 
OTP is required, rather than the cardholders bank (in this case, HSBC).  Card payments can 
be authenticated in several different ways.  A OTP is an additional means of secure 
verification, which may be used in some circumstances.  I acknowledge Mr Bs says he has 
been asked for a OTP for transactions with A pre and post 6 May 2020.  However, a OTP is 
not required for every single transaction  so its possible one wasnt requested for the 
pending transaction in this case.
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded HSBC couldve done anything to prevent the 
pending transaction.  This was caused by A; and the requirement of a OTP for the pending 
transaction was outside of HSBCs control.
Removing the pending transaction
At paragraph 10 of Mr Bs submissions, he states, It is not fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for HSBC to have maintained the erroneous £1,777 pre-authorisation 
(effectively reducing my credit limit by that amount) beyond the 30 day drop off period or 
(alternatively) after it became aware that no transaction had been authorised by me leading 
to [As] pre-authorisation request.
I do acknowledge what Mr B has said.  However, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im of the 
view that it was unlikely HSBC could have removed the pending transaction before or after 
Mr B brought it to HSBCs attention.  Im particularly persuaded by an internal email Ive 
seen which sets out, amongst other things, that A were undertaking a system fix which 
wouldve allowed the removal of the widespread pending transactions they caused.  The 
email goes on to state that a timeframe for this had not been specified.  Therefore, on 
balance, Im satisfied that HSBC had to wait for A to resolve things before anything could be 
done about the pending transaction on Mr Bs account.
Mr B has provided a document titled, Pre-authorisation Note.  The document sets out how 
pre-authorisation operates in the context of booking a hotel room.  It should be noted that the 
document Mr B seeks to rely on appears to have been compiled by a hotel chain, rather than 
HSBC.  With that in mind, Im unable to attach much weight to it.  That said, as Ive already 
explained, in the unique circumstances of this case  Im not persuaded HSBC was able to 
remove the pending transaction from Mr Bs account.
At paragraph 9(a) of Mr Bs submissions, he states,  Condition 2.3 of HSBCs Terms and 
Conditions for its credit card is relevant. That Condition says that HSBC will immediately 
refund any . . . transaction not authorised by you, in cases where the customer had not 
allowed a third party to use their card or card number.  
Having considered this, I cant say it applies in this case.  I say this because the payment 
concerned was a pending pre-authorisation transaction, rather than an actual authorised 
transaction which was completed.  For this reason, HSBC wasnt under any obligation to 
refund the amount of the pending transaction.Temporary increase to credit limit
Mr B says if HSBC was not able to remove the pending transaction from his account, it 
shouldve provided him with a temporary increase to his credit limit.  HSBC says Mr Bs 
request was declined after the necessary checks were carried out.  It also says it couldnt 
have applied such an increase to its several customers affected by A, as this wouldve left 
them with unapproved additional credit.  HSBC argues had this happened, and the additional 
credit had been spent between As fix and HSBCs credit limit reduction, this couldve 
amounted to irresponsible and unaffordable lending.
HSBC must take reasonable steps to ensure that it doesnt lend irresponsibly.  This means 
that it needs to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure the borrower 
can make repayments in a sustainable manner.  These checks can take into account several 
different things  such as how much is being lent and the borrowers income and 
expenditure.  Im satisfied HSBC considered Mr Bs request for an increase.  Having done 
so, it was a matter for HSBC  in its commercial judgment  to decide whether it offered a 
credit limit increase to Mr B.  HSBC is under no obligation to offer a credit facility or increase 
one.  Its decision not to lend to Mr B is something Im unable to interfere with.
So, taking all the above points together  Im satisfied HSBC hasnt done anything wrong 
and that it acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.  So, I will not 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman