DRN-2385115
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) has done to put things right following 
his complaint that it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr W complained that Lloyds mis-sold PPI alongside a credit card. The account and PPI 
opened in November 2006.
Lloyds investigated the complaint and thought it should be upheld. It offered to put things 
right by paying him £3,369.10  and paid this directly into Mr Ws bank account.
But Mr W doesnt now think Lloyds worked out the compensation correctly. He thinks Lloyds 
owes him a further £3,518.98.
Lloyds looked at this and made a new offer. It said there was a period between December 
2006 and October 2007 it hadnt taken into account when it made the original offer. It worked 
out the extra it needed to pay Mr W was £990.69. This was less than Mr W had worked out  
he didnt agree to this new offer.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 30 November 2020. In my provisional 
decision, I said I thought that what Lloyds had offered was fair in the circumstances of Mr 
Ws complaint. I said:
Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id taken into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Both Lloyds and Mr W agreed Lloyds shouldnt have sold PPI to Mr W. So I wasnt 
going to look at that further in the decision. I was instead just looking at whether what 
Lloyds has offered to put things right is fair.
Where I decide, or where a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI 
should be upheld, I expect the business to put the consumer in the position theyd be 
in if they hadnt bought the PPI.
Mr W had PPI on a credit card. The cost of the policy was charged to the account 
every month when Lloyds prepared Mr Ws statement  and what Lloyds charged 
each month depended on the amount Mr W owed to the account. So he owed more 
than he would have done if he hadnt had PPI  which meant he was charged more 
interest. So when he paid off his credit card, he had to pay more than he should have 
done. Mr W needs to get back the extra he paid.
Lloyds had sent us a breakdown which shows how it how it worked out what it 
planned to pay Mr W to put things right. Lloyds knew what Mr W spent and paid 
towards the card and also knew what it charged Mr W in interest, PPI premiums and 
fees.
Based on what Id seen, the account and PPI had opened in December 2006, and 
the account was still open at the point Lloyds worked out its offer in 2020. Lloyds 
charged the PPI premium each month from December 2006 until February 2012.
Lloyds used this information to work out a hypothetical account reconstruction. This 
is intended to show what would most likely have happened if Mr W hadnt bought the 
PPI. Lloyds has removed the PPI charges from the account and worked out the 
interest and fees it would have charged if it hadnt been for PPI. In doing so, it 
assumed that, in most months, Mr W would have paid the same amount towards the 
card as he actually did. But for 28 months, Lloyds assumed Mr W paid a different 
amount.
In months where Mr W repaid the amount he owed to the account at the start of the 
month in full, Lloyds assumes Mr W would have paid less  and instead paid what 
hed have owed to the card if he hadnt had PPI.
In months where Mr W paid more to the account than he owed at the start of the 
month, Lloyds assumes that Mr W would have paid the same amount more than hed 
owe if he hadnt had PPI.
In some months, Mr W made the minimum possible payment to the account. In 
periods where Mr W did this frequently, Lloyds assumed that Mr W would make a 
minimum payment based on what the balance would have been without PPI.
Whenever Lloyds assumed that Mr W paid less than he in fact did, it added the 
difference to the refund. And as Mr W had paid more than he would have done if he 
hadnt bought the PPI, it adds simple interest (the rate is 8% a year) to compensate 
him for the time hes been out of pocket.
I said Id thought about whether what Lloyds had done was fair.
Mr Ws representatives said that the method Lloyds had used was different to the 
method set out in the regulators rules. It referred me to the worked examples in the 
appendixes of the Financial Conduct Authoritys policy statement PS10/12: The 
assessment and redress of Payment Protection Insurance complaints. It also referred 
me to this services published approach to redress for mis-sold PPI on credit cards.
The main difference between what Lloyds had done and what Mr W thought should 
have happened related to the assumptions Lloyds makes about what Mr W would 
have paid if he hadnt had PPI. Mr Ws representatives thought Lloyds should 
assume Mr W always paid the same amount to the account he in fact did. If this 
meant Mr W paid more than he owed, it said Lloyds should assume Mr W would 
have had a credit balance on the account. (As this meant Mr W would no longer owe 
anything to the card, it also meant that Mr W would also get back all the interest 
charged to the account during the period that followed  unless and until Mr Ws 
spending meant the card no longer had a credit balance.)But I didnt think the approach Lloyds had taken was unreasonable. In months where 
Mr W had made the minimum payment or paid off what he owed, Lloyds has 
assumed he would have made the same type of payment. In months where Mr W 
repaid the account in full, I thought it likely Mr W would still have wanted to repay the 
account in full if he hadnt had PPI. But hed have paid less. So I thought this put Mr 
W in the position hed most likely be in if he hadnt bought the policy. I wasnt 
persuaded Mr W would have instead paid the account into credit.
Similarly, when Mr W regularly chose to make the minimum payment  the smallest 
payment he could make  I thought it was fair for Lloyds to assume he would have 
made the smaller minimum payment based on the reconstructed balance. I think the 
type of payment he made is indicative of the type of payment he would have made if 
he hadnt had PPI.
Based on what Id seen of Mr Ws statements, I also thought it was likely Mr W 
managed his spending on a month-by-month basis. The PPI was, each month, only a 
small fraction of what Lloyds charged to the account. I didnt think it realistic to 
assume Mr W would have set aside this money so he wouldnt, many months later, 
have needed to use the credit card at all. I also noted that although the PPI was less 
than 5% of the total Mr W spent on the card, the method Lloyds had used to work out 
the compensation means Mr W gets back 37% of the total interest it ever charged to 
the account.
For these reasons, I didnt think the assumptions Lloyds had made about what Mr W 
would have paid each month were, on the face of it, unfair.
Id thought about what Mr Ws representatives had said about the regulators rules 
and guidelines. I didnt think the approach Id outlined above was at odds with the 
regulators rules. And while the example Mr Ws representative referred me to 
showed businesses how they can work out what a consumer owed, it doesnt say 
they must work this out this way. It was just an example.
I also noted that when the regulator revisited the question of credit card PPI redress, 
in its policy statement PS 17/3 Payment protection insurance complaints: feedback 
on CP16/2 and final rules and guidelines, it expressly acknowledged that some 
businesses use behavioural assumptions when calculating PPI compensation on 
credit cards  and included examples of these in the worked examples attached to 
that policy statement.
Likewise, this service refers to assumptions about the payments consumers make in 
our own published approach to compensation following complaints about PPI. These 
are illustrative, and we explain that whats fair depends on the individual 
circumstances of the case. And for the reasons Ive explained, I was satisfied that the 
assumptions Lloyds made in Mr Ws case reflected how Mr W was using the card.
Mr W has received a refund of the premiums he was charged for the policy. I thought 
Lloyds had fairly worked out the additional interest Mr W paid because of the 
premiums added to his account. So I thought Mr W had got back the extra he paid 
because of the PPI  and Lloyds had awarded interest to compensate Mr W for the 
time hed been out of pocket. And so I thought what Lloyds had offered was fair.
Mr Ws representatives had disagreed with my provisional findings for several reasons. It 
says the assumptions Lloyds has made is contrary to the ombudsman services published 
guidance.Turning to the specific assumptions Lloyds made, Mr Ws representative says:
In April 2009, Mr W paid £2,000 to a balance of £1,960.03. So it thinks Mr W 
intended to pay £2,000  and this payment should not be adjusted by Lloyds. 
Similarly, in January 2010 Mr W intentionally overpaid the balance, and so this 
payment should not adjusted by Lloyds.
It agrees that in months where Mr W paid the balance in full that its likely hed have 
done the same if he hadnt had PPI and the balance was lower.
It says Lloyds only adjusts the minimum payment to the account after Mr W had 
made the minimum payment for four consecutive months. So Lloyds shouldnt have 
adjusted the payments Mr W made in October, November and December 2011.
Lloyds should not have adjusted the payments Mr W made during the period after the 
policy was cancelled.
Lloyds has not sent me anything further to consider. I have therefore considered the 
complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that what Lloyds had offered to do to put things right 
was fair.
Mr W doesnt agree.
He thinks that the approach Lloyds has taken is contrary to the approach set out on this 
services website. He also doesnt think the assumptions Lloyds has made about what hed 
have paid to the account if he hadnt had PPI are fair.
Ive carefully considered the points Mr W has raised. But they dont change my conclusions.
In reaching this decision I need to decide whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. The information on our website reflects the complaints 
weve seen  it doesnt mean businesses cant take a different approach. The information on 
our website also explains that whats fair depends on the individual circumstances of the 
case  and goes on to give examples of circumstances where a business might reasonably 
make assumptions about the payments a consumer would have made if they hadnt had PPI 
on a credit card.
I also stress that we dont  and nor do the rules  prescribe a single, detailed method to 
work out compensation when PPI is mis-sold alongside credit cards. Across the industry, 
businesses use a range of assumptions  each of which may be fair. My focus in this 
decision is whether the compensation Lloyds has offered is substantially fair, and not 
whether, if Lloyds had calculated things slightly differently, Mr W gets more.
I note that Mr Ws representatives have questioned whether Lloyds has carried out a full 
account reconstruction in Mr Ws case. But weve sent them the breakdown of the 
calculation provided by Lloyds, and this sets out both how Mr W used the card and the 
hypothetical account reconstruction showing what would have happened had Mr W not had PPI on the account. This shows how Lloyds has worked out the revised interest and charges 
on Mr Ws account  together with the assumptions Lloyds made about what Mr W paid.
With this in mind, the main question I need to consider is whether, taken together, the 
assumptions Lloyds have made, in Mr Ws case, are reasonable given the information Ive 
seen about how Mr W used his card.
As I said in my provisional decision, most months Lloyds assumed that Mr W made the 
same payment towards the account that he in fact made. But where Mr W consistently made 
the minimum repayment, or paid off what he owed, Lloyds assumes Mr W made the same 
type of payment.
In months where Mr W paid the balance shown on his statement, Lloyds has worked out 
what the balance would have been without PPI  and assumed Mr W paid that amount 
instead. Im satisfied this reflects what Mr W would most likely have paid towards the card 
had he not had PPI.
In months where Mr W paid more than the balance shown on his statement, Lloyds has 
worked out what the balance would have been without PPI  and overpaid the account by 
the same amount. Mr Ws representatives disagree with this. They feel that Mr W 
deliberately paid more than he had to  and so Lloyds should assume Mr W would make the 
same payment. 
So Ive looked at the payments Mr W made to the card. I think its unusual for consumers to 
pay more towards a card than they owe  and I see Mr W did this just twice during the 12 
years this card was open. Looking at the individual payments: he paid £2,000 on a balance 
of £1,960.03 in April 2009, and £1,300 towards a balance of £1,218.70 in January 2010. 
In 2009, the payment appears to reflect the further spending Mr W made that month: as well 
as his statement balance, Mr W spent an additional £76.98. The payment of £2,000 covered 
his statement balance and part of what he spent. Lloyds has worked out Mr Ws balance if 
he hadnt had PPI would have been just £1,365.62 - and has assumed Mr W would still have 
paid slightly more than he owed. As this reflects what Mr W actually did, I dont think thats 
unreasonable. And I dont think Mr W is likely to have deliberately paid his account £600 into 
credit  he doesnt do that at any point the account is open.
In January 2010, Mr W paid £1,300. Lloyds worked out Mr W would have owed £1,208.62 if 
he hadnt had PPI  and so thinks he would instead have paid £1,289.82, or £10.08 less 
than he in fact paid. While I recognise this reflects the lower balance, I accept its plausible 
that Mr W would have kept his payment the same this month. But Im not going to tell Lloyds 
to change this - this £10.08 difference is small, Mr W receives this amount, with interest, in 
his refund, and this amount is more than offset by other parts of the calculation that are 
favourable to Mr W. In particular, I note Lloyds has refunded a number of £12 over limit fees 
 including in months where Mr Ws other spending that month took him over the credit limit, 
even before taking into account any PPI premium or interest charged that month. So I think 
at least some of these fees were really charged because Mr W chose to use the card when 
he was close to his credit limit, rather than because of the PPI. Considering all of this 
together, I dont think this £10.08 difference, on its own, makes this offer substantially unfair.
In months where Mr W made the minimum repayment for four or more consecutive months, 
Lloyds has assumed Mr W would also have made the minimum payment, based on the 
lower balance. Mr Ws representatives are concerned that Lloyds has done this for the first 
three months of each consecutive period. Theyre also concerned that Lloyds has done this 
during periods when the PPI wasnt active.Where Mr W consistently made the minimum repayment, I think this is because this is what 
he chose to do. So I think its fair for Lloyds to assume Mr W would still have made the 
minimum repayment if he hadnt had PPI  this reflects the payments he actually made.
While I note Mr Ws representatives feel Lloyds shouldnt do this during the first three 
months of any four month or longer consecutive period of minimum payments, I dont think 
thats unfair. Im satisfied those assumptions reflect Mr Ws actual payments during those 
periods. Looking at what Lloyds has said, I see it in fact says that it would use these 
assumptions throughout the whole period Mr W made minimum payments for more than four 
months. I dont think it would necessarily have been unreasonable if Lloyds had also 
adjusted payments during periods shorter than this, or one-off minimum payments, if that 
reflected the type of payment Mr W made. 
Mr Ws representatives also say Lloyds shouldnt adjust the payments Mr W made during the 
periods after the policy was cancelled. But I dont think theres a good reason why Lloyds 
shouldnt  Lloyds needs to continue the account reconstruction to reflect the impact PPI had 
on the account during the period after it was cancelled, and so I think its reasonable for 
Lloyds to continue to adjust payments during this period where this reflects the type of 
payment Mr W made. If Lloyds didnt, and given Mr W in fact tended to spend on the card up 
to his credit limit, I think this would exaggerate the impact the PPI had on Mr Ws account 
during this period.
My final decision
For the reasons above and in my provisional decision, my decision is that the amount Lloyds 
Bank plc has offered is fair. If it hasnt already, it should bring the figures up to date and pay 
Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman