DRN-3398294
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has not provided him with 
the refund he has requested.
What happened
Mr R has a credit card account with Nationwide. Mr Rs daughter was getting married. Mr R 
made three payments to the wedding caterer who Ill call B. The payments made were:
September 2017  payment made using Mr Rs Nationwide credit card. Ill call this 
transaction 1.
November 2019  payment made by bank transfer. Ill call this transaction 2.
January 2020  payment made using Mr Rs Nationwide credit card. Ill call this 
transaction 3.
In March 2020 B went into administration. Mr R is an unsecured creditor in relation to B. He 
has been unable to recover all of his money from it. Mr R complained to Nationwide in April 
2020. He wanted it to assist him to recover the remainder of the money. In particular, he 
relied on the rights he believes he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75) in relation to the payments he made using his credit card.
Nationwide was able to recover the money paid in transaction 3 under a process known as 
chargeback. This is a process which allows customers to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if there is a problem with goods or services that they have paid for. There is no 
automatic right to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice, in general, for a 
financial business to consider carrying out a chargeback if its customer asks it to do this. 
However, Nationwide was not able to recover transactions 1 and 2 via chargeback, as they 
were not eligible for this process.
Nationwide considered Mr Rs claim under Section 75. But ultimately it decided it could not 
meet this claim as in its opinion Section 75 did not apply. It concluded this on basis that to 
have rights under Section 75, amongst other things, Mr R had to have been a contracting 
party in relation to the contract with B and it did not agree that he was. 
Dissatisfied, Mr R came to our service.
One of investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint. He did not recommend upholding the 
complaint. He came to this recommendation as he concluded that Nationwide had behaved 
appropriately and therefore, we had no proper basis to ask it to take any further action.
Nationwide accepted this outcome, Mr R did not. In summary, Mr R responded that in his 
opinion he is entitled to rely on Section 75 and reiterated his previous stance. He suggests 
he is a contracting party in relation to the contract with B. In particular he repeated he had 
made payments to B, which from his perspective created a contract with it. Further Mr R also 
pointed out that after at least one of the payments he received an email from B, which in his 
opinion confirmed he was contracting with B.  He also suggests we had misunderstood the 
correct contractual position if we did not see that he contracted with B.
We could go no further with Mr Rs complaint at this first stage, so I was asked to take a 
fresh look at it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In circumstances such as these, this service would expect a business to consider both 
carrying out a chargeback as well as looking at Mr Rs claim under Section 75.
Nationwide did consider whether it could recover all of Mr Rs money via chargeback. It 
appears that the chargeback succeeded in relation to transaction 3. Moreover, it appears 
that there is no disagreement between the parties that Nationwide acted correctly in relation 
to transaction 1 and transaction 2 when it comes to chargeback. However, just in case I am 
mistaken about this I will cover this point.
The chargeback rules are set by the scheme operator, here that is Visa. Nationwide has to 
follow these rules. When looking at the chargeback point, I could only order Nationwide to 
refund the outstanding portion of the money if I was satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the 
way it dealt with this situation under the chargeback regulations
Transaction 2 was a transfer from Mr Rs current account to Bs account. This sort of 
payment is not covered by the chargeback rules.
Transaction 1 was outside the relevant deadlines for the chargeback rules by the time Mr R 
complained. On that basis there was no realistic prospect of Nationwide recovering the 
remaining money for these transactions using the chargeback rules.
It follows that I find Nationwide acted appropriately in the circumstances in relation to 
chargebacks.
Mr Rs remaining complaint point is about how Nationwide responded when he raised 
concerns about the contract with B which was financed by credit from Nationwide. Mr R 
made transaction 1 and transaction 3 using his credit card, as Ive already mentioned, 
because he used this type of finance, he potentially has rights under Section 75. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Rs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr R pursued a claim there. Our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts and operates differently from them.The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr R has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier, here, B, he can also bring a like claim against Nationwide 
provided certain conditions are met.  One of the conditions that must be met is there has to 
be a very specific relationship in place - that is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.  
Here that means Mr R would have to be the debtor, Nationwide the creditor and B the 
supplier. In other words, for this relationship to be in place Mr R would need to be a 
contracting party to the contract with B which was financed with credit from Nationwide.
Mr R suggests he did contract with B because he met with B on more than one occasion to 
decide about the catering. Moreover, on the first occasion they met Mr R tells us he made a 
payment to B and it sent him an email. Furthermore, Mr R then made another payment by 
credit card to B (that is transaction 3). 
However, payment alone does not, by itself, create a contract. It is perfectly possible for 
person and A and person B to contract and for person C to make a payment in relation to 
that contract on behalf of person A. In that scenario person C is discharging person As 
obligation to make payment under the contract, but that does not thereby make person C a 
contracting party too. In the context of a wedding this scenario is common where parents 
make financial contributions to the wedding. 
Mr R tells us he received an email from B after he paid it and from his perspective that email 
was also evidence that there was an arrangement of a contractual nature between him and 
it. However, Ive seen that email. An email confirming payment, does not itself create a 
contract between the parties.
Rather, when looking at who the contractual parties might be in the first instance, I look at 
the contractual documents such as the contract itself and invoices. Ive not seen any copy of 
a written contract and the only written information I have of a contractual nature i.e. the 
invoices, are addressed to the bride and groom to-be as they were at that time. Which I dont 
find surprising given it was their wedding. The contract could of course have been verbal, 
that is a valid way to make a contract. But nothing I can see suggests Mr R did make a 
verbal contract with B. For all of the reasons I have gone through above l find that on 
balance the contract with B was with the bride and groom not with Mr R. In this instance, I 
find that by making the payment Mr R was merely discharging the bride and grooms liability 
to pay under the contract they, not Mr R had with B. It follows I am not satisfied there is a 
relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in this particular instance.
I take on board that through no fault of his own, Mr R is now out of pocket. I also appreciate 
that my findings are likely to disappoint him. However, for the reasons I have set out above, I 
have no proper basis for saying that Nationwide must take responsibility and make the 
refund Mr R requests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman