DRN-3118526
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) AMEX declined a 
claim for a refund he made under the chargeback scheme and section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 S75.
Mr H says he didnt receive the refund that was agreed with the airline when he cancelled 
some flights.
What happened
Mr H booked flights using his AMEX credit card in October and November 2017, with a 
company Ill refer to as G, for himself and two family members. The total cost was 
£1513.71. He said that on the phone when he booked the flights it was agreed the tickets 
were for a single itinerary for three people with no additional booking or cancellation fees.
Mr H received some refunds a few days after booking the flights in November 2017 for a 
total of £288.30.
Mr H says he later needed to cancel the flights and so called G. He says G told him only a 
single cancellation fee of £105 would apply to the flights. 
Mr H received some refunds in July 2018. He then received further refunds over two dates in 
August 2018. These refunds totalled £919.41. This left a total of £306 remaining from the 
total Mr H paid for the flights. Mr H is unhappy with this and believes he is entitled to a 
further refund.
In December 2018 it appears Mr H asked AMEX for a chargeback on a transaction with G. 
AMEX responded and said this wasnt possible as the transaction enquired about was a 
credit. It then appears in March 2019 Mr H raised another chargeback which appears to be 
against a transaction from November 2018 with G. AMEX responded to this and said it didnt 
have enough information to investigate.
In June 2019 AMEX wrote to Mr H about a S75 claim against G for the refund of the flights. It 
asked him to provide various information including sales invoices, itineraries, terms and 
conditions and all correspondence between himself and G.
In August 2019 AMEX wrote to Mr H about his S75 claim. It said, in summary, that Mr H 
hadnt provided enough evidence to show there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. So, it said it wasnt able to assist Mr H further.
Mr H was unhappy with this and complained to AMEX. In September 2019 it issued its final 
response. This said, in summary, that it had tried to contact G on two occasions, but it hadnt 
responded. It said without further information it couldnt progress Mr Hs S75 claim, so it 
wasnt upholding his complaint.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator issued 
an opinion explaining he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, 
that there wasnt enough information to show there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, so he didnt think AMEX had done anything wrong by declining Mr Hs 
S75 claim.
Mr H was unhappy with this. He said as G didnt respond the claim shouldve automatically 
gone in his favour. And he said AMEX shouldve done a chargeback for the refund.
Our investigator said when Mr H contacted AMEX it was too late to do a chargeback. And he 
said it would be unfair to uphold the complaint without further evidence. 
Mr H said he did his original request within the timeframes for a chargeback. And he said 
this means no S75 claim would succeed if merchants just ignored requests for information.
The case was then passed for an ombudsmans decision. While this was happening, the 
investigator took another look at the case and gave Mr H a bit more detail about why he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained AMEX said Mr H raised two 
chargeback requests. One was for a credit, so it wasnt valid. And he said the other was out 
of time. He also said he thought several of the transactions for flights might not fall under a 
valid S75 claim as they didnt fall within the relevant financial limits.
Mr H responded and reiterated some of his earlier points. And he said the original purchase 
was one transaction, but G had billed the flights separately.
The case was then passed to me to decide. I asked Mr H to send in any further evidence he 
had from the time. He replied and sent in the e-tickets for the flights. Three family members 
including Mr H were listed on the e-tickets and details were as follows:
e-ticket A - dated 23 October 2017 for a total of £593.91
e-ticket B  dated 07 November 2017 for a total of £559.80
e-ticket C  dated 07 November 2017 for a total of £96
e-ticket D  dated 07 November 2017 for a total of £168
I sent Mr H and AMEX a provisional decision on 20 September 2021. This explained I didnt 
initially intend to uphold the complaint. My findings from this decision were as follows:
I think there are two main things to consider here. Should AMEX have raised a chargeback 
on Mr Hs behalf for the refund and did AMEX act reasonably when it declined Mr Hs claim 
under S75. Ill consider each of these in turn.
Chargeback
Mr H says a chargeback shouldve been raised by AMEX when he asked for a refund. I can 
see some contact from AMEX in December 2018 saying Mr H raised a chargeback on a 
credit transaction, so it didnt progress this. 
I can next see contact about a chargeback in March 2019 when AMEX asks Mr H for more 
information about a transaction from G. But, the transaction it specifically mentions is for an 
amount of £349.02, with a date of 18 November 2018. None of the flights in question were 
for this amount, and this date is some time after the flights were booked. So, I cant see Mr H 
raised a specific, valid, chargeback claim in relation to this complaint.
That being said, I have thought about whether, in more general terms, AMEX shouldve 
raised a chargeback when Mr H made it aware he wanted a full refund for the flights. The chargeback scheme has a number of specific reasons for valid claims referred to as 
codes. These are quite specific and apply to a limited range of circumstances. In summary, 
Mr Hs claim under chargeback was that he had a contractual right to a higher refund than 
he actually received for several transactions. I cant see there is a valid code under the 
chargeback scheme that would apply to this.
That means, whatever conclusions I reach about whether Mr H was within the timescales or 
if AMEX shouldve raised a chargeback anyway, I dont think it wouldve been successful. It 
follows that I dont think AMEX need to take any further action here.
S75 claim
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. S75 is relevant to this complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances, 
that a borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit 
provider if theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Firstly, I need to consider if Mr H had a valid claim under S75. Mr H says he booked all the 
flights under one itinerary, as a single transaction. But, it doesnt appear this was the case. I 
say this as on Mr Hs credit card statements, all of the different flights are listed separately 
as individual transactions. The passenger details are also all listed separately. And the 
transactions are spread over two different dates.
Ive also considered the e-tickets Mr H received. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr H 
says he was told on the phone. But, Mr H received four different e-tickets with four different 
booking reference numbers. On each of the four e-tickets, there are three different ticket 
numbers for the flights. 
Thinking about all of this, I dont think Mr H booked all the individual flights separately as 
they appear on his credit card statement. But, Im satisfied Mr H booked a total of 12 tickets 
under four transactions.
Ive considered whether a valid debtor-creditor- supplier (D-C-S) chain exists here. Im 
satisfied Mr H booked the tickets himself using his credit card directly with G. Although his 
family members appear on the tickets, thinking about the specific complaint Mr H made here, 
Im satisfied on balance Mr H is the contracting party for all of the flights in relation to 
cancelling and receiving refunds. I say this as I think Mr H wouldve been due any refund 
payable from the flights, as the person who booked and paid for them. So, it follows Im 
satisfied there is a valid D-C-S link here.
For a valid claim under S75 the cash price of goods or services must be more than £100 but 
no more than £30,000. As I previously explained, I think its likely the four e-tickets were 
separate transactions. And, when considering the financial limits under S75 I need to 
consider the cost of the single items  in this case the cost of the individual flights. This 
means the individual flights booked under e-tickets C and D are outside of the financial limits 
for a valid S75 claim as they were less than £100 each.
Ive then gone on to consider if AMEX handled Mr Hs claim on e-tickets A and B fairly. And 
having done so, I think it doesnt need to take any further action here. Ill explain why.
Looking at the e-tickets Mr H sent in, the website links are still live. The website linked from 
reward flight service fees explains some charges. In a table, under Cancellation/(company 
name) redeposit this says GPD 35. Under this, it says Booking and service fees apply per person/per ticket. As Ive previously 
explained, each e-ticket had three different ticket reference numbers and Im satisfied Mr H 
booked six tickets under e-tickets A and B.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr H said he was told on the phone. I appreciate he 
says he was told he would only have to pay one cancellation fee per person. Unfortunately, 
recordings of the phone calls arent available. But, on balance, I dont think its most likely he 
was told something that would appear to contradict the terms of the tickets he booked. Even 
if he was, this was after the flights had been booked so I would unlikely consider this a 
breach of contract. 
I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely Mr H was told something different 
before he bought the tickets and entered into the contract. It follows that Im satisfied its 
most likely the cancellation fees on e-tickets A and B should be a total of £210.
Looking at Mr Hs credit card statements, there are various refunds from G. Some of these 
transactions have details of the flights and destinations they relate to on the statement. So, 
Ive thought about these for the flights booked under e-tickets A and B. 
It appears in relation to e-ticket A Mr H received an initial refund of £443.91 in July 2018 
followed by a refund of £45 in August 2018. This means in total he was refunded £488.91 
from £593.91  leaving £105 which is the cancellation fee I would expect to see from the 
terms and conditions.
For e-ticket B, it appears Mr H received a refund of £367.50 in August 2018 from the cost of 
£559.80  leaving an amount of £192.30. But, Mr H received an earlier refund shortly after 
booking e-ticket B for £192.30. This refund doesnt have the destination details on, nor do 
the ticket numbers on the transaction match up to these flights. But, on balance, given the 
precise amount Im satisfied this refund was most likely in relation to e-ticket B. So, Im 
satisfied its most likely it appears Mr H received a full refund for these flights.
So, this means, even though I think its most likely Mr H shouldve been charged £35 per 
flight to cancel, for the six flights booked under e-tickets A and B - those for which Mr H had 
a valid S75 claim - it appears he only paid half of this. So, it follows I dont think there has 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. And, I dont think AMEX needs to do 
anything further.
Finally, Ive considered what Mr H said about the fact that he thought AMEX shouldve 
automatically upheld his S75 claim when G didnt respond. But, I dont agree here. I think it 
might have been reasonable for AMEX to uphold the claim without a response from G had 
Mr H been able to provide evidence there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
But, I dont think he did.
I gave both parties one month to come back with any further comments or evidence. AMEX 
said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr H made some comments on my provisional 
decision for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having thought about Mr Hs comments in response to my provisional 
decision, I still think this complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why.Mr H sent an edited version of my decision with his commentary on. I wont address every 
individual comment he made  Ill instead focus on what I think are the key issues here. And 
I wont comment on points Im happy have already been addressed. This isnt to be 
disrespectful to Mr H  this just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr H has reiterated he thinks AMEX shouldve raised a chargeback earlier and it shouldve 
known to do this from the information he provided it. But, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, even if it did pick this up earlier I still dont think there is a valid code under the 
chargeback scheme for it to process this claim. I understand Mr H questions this, but he 
hasnt provided anything to make me think Im incorrect here.
Mr H said he isnt responsible for how G books and processes tickets and he still thinks the 
flights were booked as a single transaction for a single trip. I can understand his frustration 
here, and I accept he has no choice in how this is organised. But, this doesnt change how I 
think the flights were actually booked and the transactions processed.
Mr H again reiterated what he said he was told on the phone about the cancellation fees. Ive 
thought very carefully about this, along with everything else he said in response to my 
provisional decision. I understand how upset he is with the situation and with G. But, this 
doesnt change my opinion. I still havent seen enough to make me think there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman