DRN-3590450
The complaint
Mr C complains that he and his wife were mis-sold an upgrade of a holiday club membership 
and the credit facility used to pay for it. The facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. 
Mr C is represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
In July 2010 Mr and Mrs C bought an upgrade to an existing holiday club membership they 
had with Diamond Resorts. They bought additional membership points at a cost of £8,275, 
paid for with a new credit facility provided by BPF and arranged by Diamond Resorts. 
In September 2020 Mr C wrote to BPF to say that he did not believe that Diamond Resorts 
had been properly authorised to broker or arrange loans at the time and that he had not 
been given the opportunity to consider the loan in detail before agreeing to it.
In its response, BPF did not directly address the issue of authorisation. It did however 
consider whether Mr C had a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. It concluded that any such claim would be out of time. 
P then referred the matter to this service on Mr Cs behalf. As well as the complaints about 
authorisation and about BPFs response to the section 75 claim, it added that BPF had not 
properly considered whether the credit facility was affordable for Mr C and that it thought the 
facility created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but broadly agreed with BPF that the 
complaint had been made too long after the events complained of for it to be upheld. 
P asked that an ombudsman review the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs initial complaint was that the broker which arranged the credit facility lacked the 
authorisation to do so. BPF answered a different concern, which Mr C had not at that point 
raised. 
When the complaint was referred to this service, P expanded the complaint further, and the 
question of affordability was raised during our consideration of the case. 
Usually, a complaint should be raised with a financial business before it is referred to us, so 
that it has had an opportunity to respond to it. In the case of a claim arising from section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act, the complaint is not that a claim has arisen, but that the 
customer is unhappy with the response. 
The complaints raised here have not followed those steps precisely. Nevertheless, I am 
satisfied that BPF has had the opportunity to answer the points raised and that this service 
has expressed a preliminary view on each of them. I believe I can therefore determine the 
complaint in a way which is fair to both parties. 
Authorisation to arrange the loan
The credit facility was a running account with a £20,000 credit limit. It records that it was 
arranged by Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. 
When the facility was set up, consumer credit broking did not require authorisation from the 
Financial Conduct Authority; it did however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair 
Trading. In addition, from 6 April 2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider 
certain complaints about OFT licensees, under what was then our consumer credit 
jurisdiction. Our own records indicate that Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited was covered 
under the consumer credit jurisdiction from 6 April 2007 until 31 March 2014 and thereafter 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Diamond Resorts would not have been recorded as a business coming under this services 
consumer credit jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence. I am 
satisfied therefore that it was properly authorised as a consumer credit broker when the loan 
was arranged in the summer of 2010.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mr C. I note that the amount the facility which Mr C used 
was repaid within a matter of months, in February 2011. It does not necessarily follow of 
course that proper checks were carried out or that the credit facility was affordable.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in or around July 2010. Mr C would have known fairly soon after that date if he 
was having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint should 
have been referred to this service by no later than 22 July 2016  six years from the date 
BPF agreed to provide the facility. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the additional club membership 
points. I am satisfied that the credit facility was set up as a result of pre-existing 
arrangements between Diamond Resorts and BPF and that section 75 could therefore apply.    I must therefore consider the claims against Diamond Resorts. Mr C says that Diamond 
Resorts misled him and his wife about the holiday club membership. For example, they were 
told that they would be able to book luxury accommodation anywhere in the world, but that 
was not in fact true.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale 
in July 2010. I do note however that they were existing club members, so presumably must 
have had some previous knowledge and experience of what they were buying.   
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs D into the 
contract for the purchase of additional holiday club membership points were made on or 
before 22 July 2010. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until September 
2020, just over ten years later. And the complaint raised at that point was about Diamond 
Resorts authorisation, not about having been misled about what they were buying. I think it 
very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against Diamond Resorts 
was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
P says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because the relevant time limit is 
extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of action. On the first point, I 
think it likely that Mr C would have known some years ago if he had been misled about the 
features of the holiday club membership which had led him to buy it. 
Be that as it may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against Diamond 
Resorts is now out of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the 
response of BPF to the claim under section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility 
that a court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that Mr C seeks restitution of sums paid 
under the loan agreement.  
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the allegedly unfair relationship between the parties ended. In this case, the credit 
facility was a £20,000 facility, of which Mr C had used £8275. That was the only sum drawn 
under the facility, and it was repaid in February 2011  nearly ten years before any concern 
was raised. I do not agree with Ps analysis that Mr Cs claim under sections 140A and 140B 
of the Consumer Credit Act is a claim under a specialty. It is a statutory claim for the 
recovery of money, where the usual time limit is six years.    
Again, I think that it was reasonable therefore for BPF to conclude that a court would be 
unlikely to entertain such a claim and to decline it.             
Conclusions I believe that Diamond Resorts held the necessary consumer credit licence at the time the 
loan was made.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation against 
Diamond Resorts. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the 
relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider BPFs response to the 
complaints made by Mr C.
In my view, BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 75 claim and the section 
140A claim were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act.
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited  to do anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman