DRN-1097437
The complaint
Mr B complains that Animal Friends Insurance Services Ltd set up his pet insurance policy 
start date incorrectly.
What happened
On 12 January 2019 Mr B bought pet insurance on-line. Animal Friends administers the 
policy which is insured by another business. The start date of the policy was 30 January 
2019.
In April 2019 Mr B claimed for vet treatment his cat had in February and March 2019. The 
vet notes of 13 February said the cats diarrhoea had been going on for two weeks and Mr B 
told Animal Friends/the insurer the diarrhoea was first noticed on 2 February 2019. The 
insurer declined the claim as the policy didnt cover an illness which first showed clinical 
signs within 14 days of the policy starting.  
Mr B complained. He said he understood the policy started on 12 January 2019, when he 
bought and paid for the policy, so his cats symptoms started after the first 14 days of the 
policy. Mr B didnt receive the policy documents until he called Animal Friends two weeks 
after he bought the policy. He said when he called Animal Friends it hadnt set up the policy 
and when he got the paperwork the policy was dated to start 30 January 2019. 
He suggests the later policy start date happened as he had to chase Animal Friends for the 
policy. Mr B wants the claim paid.
Animal Friends said the sales process information and relevant call with Mr B showed it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought Animal Friends hadnt made an error with the start date of the policy 
so didnt need to take any action.
Mr B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Animal Friends made an error in setting up the policy start date, 
and I dont think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B bought the policy on-line by going through a comparison website. Although Animal 
Friends isnt able to send us the screenshot of Mr Bs application it has sent us screenshots 
of the sales process on the comparison website and its website.
The screenshots show Mr B would have needed to enter the date he wanted the policy to 
start on the comparison website to enable quotes to be given. When Mr B chose to take insurance through Animal Friends the policy start date Mr B chose 
was carried over to its website. The policy start date is shown several times on Animal 
Friends website before the policy was bought.
Ive listened to the call Mr B made to Animal Friends on 25 January 2019 when he told it he 
hadn't received the policy documents. Animal Friends said it had emailed the documents to 
Mr B when hed bought the policy but they may have gone to his spam account. It offered to 
resend the documents by email or post. Animal Friends didnt say to Mr B that it hadnt set 
up the policy and Ive no reason to think the policy hadnt already been set up. There's no 
evidence that when Mr B got the policy documents he contacted Animal Friends to tell it the 
start date was wrong.
Animal Friends records show the date and time Mr B took out the policy and the selected 
start date as 30 January 2019. Im satisfied it's much more likely than not that the start date 
of 30 January 2019 had been selected by Mr B. I dont think Animal Friends made an error 
with the start date of the policy. I've seen no evidence that would have led Mr B to 
reasonably believe the policy start date was the date he bought the policy.
The insurer, not Animal Friends, declined the claim. If I thought Animal Friends had made an 
error in setting up the policy Id ask it to pay compensation to Mr B to the value of the claim. 
But as I dont think Animal Friends did make an error it doesnt need to make any payment to 
Mr B. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman