DRN-3720593
The complaint
Mr H complains that the claim settlement Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) offered 
him for his lost phone isnt enough.
What happened
Mr H had mobile phone insurance underwritten by AGI, through his bank account. He 
claimed for his lost phone and AGI accepted his claim.
After looking into replacement phones, AGI offered Mr H a cash settlement of around £450, 
which was equal to the amount he paid for his phone two years earlier. Mr H didnt think the 
offer was enough because he couldnt source a replacement phone of the same 
specification for that amount. He complained to AGI and asked for a specific replacement 
phone.
AGI explained that the phone Mr H had was no longer available to buy, so it couldnt offer a 
replacement of the same model. The phone he asked for was a newer and higher 
specification phone which AGI said amounted to betterment. Mr H brought his complaint to 
this service.
 
Our investigator tried to mediate and AGI offered to replace with, or cash settle to the value 
of, the nearest specification model. AGI offered Mr H £679.99.
Mr H didnt accept because he said the phone had a smaller storage capacity than his 
previous phone. AGI repeated that it couldnt find the same phone, but it didnt accept Mr Hs 
request for the more up to date phone. AGI explained again that he wouldve been getting a 
better phone than the one he originally had. 
AGIs final offer was £679.99, which would allow Mr H to buy a better specification phone 
than the one hed lost, albeit without the same amount of storage. AGI pointed out that Mr H 
could buy a memory card for the phone to increase its storage. 
Mr H rejected its offer and asked for just under £1,000 to buy a higher specification model. 
Our investigator decided that AGI hadnt made an offer in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. He thought AGI should pay a cash settlement of £999.99 to Mr H to allow him to 
buy a replacement phone of similar specification, or source the phone he wanted.
AGI disagreed. It said its final offer was fair and if it paid the amount proposed, Mr H would 
be in a better position than before the claim. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint, but I wont be asking AGI to pay more 
than £679.99, which is what it offered during mediation. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain my reasons.
In reaching this decision, I looked at the cover provided in the event of loss. The policy 
states:
If your mobile phone is lost or stolen we will replace it with a mobile phone of the 
same make, model and memory size. If we cannot do this you will be given a choice 
of models with an equivalent specification.
Theres no dispute that AGI couldnt source a replacement phone of the same model. So, my 
consideration is whether it offered a replacement phone of similar specification or a cash 
amount for Mr H to buy a similar specification phone in line with the policy.
Ive looked at the specification of Mr Hs phone compared to that on which AGI offered a 
cash settlement. As AGI offered its settlement based on a newer phone, its understandable 
that many of the features are of a higher specification. So, on the face of it, AGI made a fair 
offer.
The dispute seems to be about the phones storage. Mr Hs phone had 1TB whereas the one 
AGI looked at had 512GB. While Mr H may be able to source a newer phone with 1TB of 
storage, AGI isnt required to match that specification. 
I understand that memory and storage are terms which have been used interchangeably 
here, so Ive looked at the manufacturers details to see whether it classes storage as 
memory. The manufacturer states:
Phone memory refers to RAM (Random Access Memory). RAM is the part of the 
phone that is used to store the operating system (OS) and where apps and data 
currently in use are kept. Whereas, phone storage is used to store data such as 
apps, photos, videos, and files that are necessary for the phone to run.
Based on this, Im satisfied that the issue in dispute is about storage rather than memory. 
The terms and conditions state that AGI will replace based on make, model and memory 
size. Theres no reference to storage, so AGI isnt required to replace the phone based on 
that part of the specification.
The phone AGI based its offer on has 16GB RAM (memory). Mr Hs phone had 12GB RAM. 
Therefore, AGI offered a settlement based on a phone of higher memory size than Mr Hs 
lost phone. Im satisfied that AGIs final offer was reasonable. 
In summary, AGIs final offer was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. As AGI 
didnt make that offer before Mr H brought his complaint to our service, Im provisionally 
upholding the complaint. But I wont be asking AGI to increase its current offer to cash settle 
at £679.99. 
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I was minded to require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr H £679.99 to cash settle his claim for his lost phone.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.AGI accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the storage of the phone is taken into account in the model 
number. And, as storage is part of the specific model number of a phone, AGI needs to 
consider storage because the terms of the policy say it will match the model. 
Further, Mr H provided a screenshot of the claim form on which AGI recorded the phone with 
lower storage, suggesting that AGI was purposely trying to make a lower offer. However, he 
was able to prove the correct storage by looking up the IMEI number on the manufacturers 
website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint, but I wont be asking AGI to do any more than I 
proposed in my provisional decision.
Firstly, Ill address the issue of the incorrect details recorded on the claim form. AGI had 
already provided a copy of the completed claim form so I took this information into 
consideration when I reached my provisional decision. The claim form does, indeed, show 
the phone as having 128GB storage. It also showed the incorrect network provider and other 
description boxes were blank. However, the form asks that the details are amended if 
incorrect and it also asks for the memory size separately to the model number.
So, based on the information on the otherwise incomplete form Mr H provided, I cant agree 
that AGI was trying to fob him off with an inferior phone. On balance, the claim form 
suggests AGI regarded the memory size as a separate specification to the model number.
This brings me onto Mr Hs point about the storage capacity being reflected in the model 
number. I understand the point hes making  if the model number includes a reference to 
the storage capacity then, to match the model, AGI must also match the storage capacity.
Taking a step back, Ive thought about what the insurance policy is there for. Its to indemnify 
Mr H for his loss - that is to put him back in the position he was in before the loss. Thats not 
always possible, and in those circumstances Id expect AGI to put Mr H into a position as 
close as possible to the one he was in before his loss.
AGI couldnt replace Mr Hs phone with an exact match because it simply wasn't available. 
So, the terms of the policy allow it to give him a choice of models with an equivalent 
specification. The terms also state that any replacement will be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device.
Mr H had a two-year-old phone which he bought for around £450. Therefore, AGI was 
responsible for providing him with a two-year-old phone  not a new phone. While I realise 
Mr H is focussing on the storage capacity, I cant fairly ask AGI to provide him with a cash 
settlement equal to the cost of a brand-new phone, with higher specification, just to match 
the storage capacity. By doing so, Id be asking AGI to match the storage capacity without 
regard for the fact that the phone would be a new, different model, higher memory, and an 
overall higher specification. That doesnt feel fair.
So, looking again at AGIs offer during the mediation process, it offered a cash settlement of 
£679.99 which was based on a newer phone, with higher memory size and an overall higher specification. Mr H would be receiving a settlement of more than the cost of his original 
phone. I remain satisfied that AGIs final mediation offer was fair and in line with the policy.
For clarity, as AGI didnt make that offer before Mr H brought his complaint to our service, 
Im upholding the complaint. But I wont be asking AGI to increase its current offer of 
£679.99.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and Assurant General Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr H £679.99 to cash settle his claim for his lost phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman