DRN-2625465
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his current account application. 
What happened
In 2013 Mr Bs joint current and savings accounts with his ex-wife were restricted after 
HSBC was notified about a dispute. In 2014 Mr Bs HSBC credit card was closed and 
defaulted after payments werent received. Mr B has explained that he was unaware the 
credit card had closed with an outstanding balance. In 2016 Mr B and his ex-wife asked 
HSBC to pay the balance of their current and savings account to them. HSBC used part of 
the funds it paid to Mr B to clear the outstanding credit card balance. 
In 2019, Mr B returned to the UK after several years living abroad and applied to open a 
current account with HSBC. The application was declined and HSBC said it took Mr Bs 
credit score and previous history with the bank into account when it made its decision. 
Mr B complained and explained he had been a longstanding customer of HSBC. HSBC 
didnt agree an error had been made and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. HSBC said its 
decision to decline his application was in line with its criteria. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt think HSBC had treated Mr B unfairly by declining his application. Mr B 
asked to appeal so his complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
I previously issued a decision that explained our service couldnt consider the issues that 
had occurred in 2013 and 2014 because Mr B didnt refer them to us within the time limits 
set out in our rules. I explained I would issue a follow up decision about how HSBC handled 
Mr Bs current account application.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr B for his patience whilst weve been dealing with his case. As I said in my 
previous decision, we can look at Mr Bs complaint about how HSBC handled his current 
account application in 2019 and whether its decision to decline it was fair.
Mr B has explained that he was a customer of HSBC for many years and feels its decision to 
decline his application was unreasonable. HSBC has told us that it considered Mr Bs 
application in line with its standard criteria but wasnt able to proceed. HSBC has confirmed 
it considered Mr Bs credit file and also looked at his history with it. That includes the credit 
card that was closed and defaulted in 2014. HSBC has confirmed Mr Bs application was 
correctly declined in line with the criteria it uses. 
Whilst I understand why Mr B is upset by HSBCs decision, we cant tell a business what 
criteria to use when it assesses applications. Its up to HSBC to decide what criteria it uses 
and whether an application is successful or not. In Mr Bs case, Im satisfied HSBC applied 
its standard criteria when it considered his request to open a new account and its decision to 
decline it was reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I havent found that HSBCs 
decision to decline his application was unfair or that it made an error. 
As I havent found that HSBC made a mistake and Im satisfied it has dealt with Mr Bs 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman