DRN-3691575
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) paid a large cash withdrawal 
to her in the public banking hall of its branch, not in a private room. Miss H was robbed soon 
after leaving the branch, and she thinks Halifax carries some responsibility for this.
What happened
Miss H told us that she made a large cash withdrawal from her account with Halifax. She
placed an order in advance for £10,000, then went back to collect the money. She said she
has made large cash withdrawals before, and the money has always been handed to her in
private. But on this occasion, the money was handed to her in the public hall of the branch,
and it was in see-through packaging.
Miss H was later robbed. She had sensibly split up the money she received, and given half
to a friend she had asked to accompany her. But her half of it, £5,000, was taken. Miss H
said she was jostled by someone, and she remembered seeing that same person standing
close to her in the bank. Miss H reported the theft to police, and she said she asked the
branch to see the CCTV recording from the day, but it would only release that to the police.
But by the time the police asked to see it, the footage had been deleted.
Miss H said this theft was Halifaxs fault. She said she should never have been given this
amount of money in public, and she felt Halifax could have done much more to help.
Halifax said it would only take Miss H into a private room to dispense cash if shed asked for
the money to be counted again for her. Halifax didnt accept responsibility for the theft. It was
sorry that the police hadnt been in touch in time to review the CCTV, and it would pay her
£75 for the distress caused to her.
Miss H didnt want to accept that. So she brought her complaint to our service. She told us
about the impact this theft had on her, and she asked our service to look into things.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could understand
that this had all been shocking for Miss H, and he was sorry that this had happened. But he
said Halifax told us it would have used a private room for handing over cash if Miss H had
requested this. She didnt. Our investigator thought Miss H did have opportunities to make
this request, if she was uncomfortable being given so much cash in public. He didnt think
that the theft which happened after Miss H left the branch was Halifaxs fault.
Miss H said she completely disagreed. She said Halifax didnt ask her how she wanted to
get her cash, and she thought it was responsible for doing that. She said Halifax had never
given her cash in the public hall before, and if it wanted to change its rules on this, it should
have written to her about this.
Miss H wanted her complaint to be reviewed, so it was passed to me for a final decision. I 
then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I do currently think a small part of this complaint should be upheld. But although I have 
asked Halifax some further questions about this, it hasnt yet replied. Because this 
request has been outstanding for some time now, I think the fairest thing for both sides 
is if I set out my current views. But I should stress that this decision is provisional, and it 
may change if either side sends further argument or evidence in this case. And that 
would include replies to the outstanding query I have raised with Halifax.
I have said a small part of this complaint should be upheld. I dont think that the main 
part of Miss Hs complaint should be upheld, because I dont think its Halifaxs fault that 
Miss H was robbed. I know Miss H thinks Halifax should have told her about how she 
would be given her cash withdrawal. But I think its reasonable for Halifax to say that it 
wont always direct its customers to a private room to hand over cash. Different people 
do have very different attitudes to carrying large amounts of cash, so not all of Halifaxs 
customers will want to use a private room to receive cash. And I think its reasonable for 
Halifax to rely on its customers to say, if they arent comfortable receiving this sort of 
amount of money in cash handed over the counter.
We know Miss H didnt tell Halifax at the time that she wasnt comfortable with receiving 
cash at the counter, or request a private room to receive her money. I know that Halifax 
has previously always used a private room to dispense cash to Miss H, but I dont think 
it had to write to her to tell her this was going to change.
I dont think I can fairly hold Halifax responsible for the fact that Miss H was later robbed. 
We know Halifax then wouldnt show Miss H the CCTV recording from that day. It 
wanted to wait for a request for this, from the police. I think thats reasonable. But there 
is one point where I think Halifax has let Miss H down. Although Halifax knew that Miss 
H thought the thief was someone who had seen her in the branch, and someone who 
might be caught on the branchs CCTV, Halifax didnt keep this footage for the police to 
view. So, when the police asked for it, the footage was no longer available.
I dont think its likely that Miss H would have got back the £5,000 that was stolen if 
Halifax had kept the footage. I cant even be sure that the thief would have been visible, 
and identifiable, from the CCTV. But I do think that, given what Halifax knew, it should 
have kept the CCTV from this day, for the police to view later. It didnt do that, and I 
think that meant Miss H lost one of the few chances she had of bringing the thief to 
justice.
I have asked Halifax to comment on this, and to date, we havent received a response 
from the branch on this point. And Ive explained that I think its now reasonable to set 
out my provisional views for either side. So, in the absence of any further evidence or 
argument on this point, I would propose to ask Halifax to pay Miss H £250 in total, to 
make up for the distress arising out of the lost chance of bringing the thief to justice.
I know Halifax has already offered Miss H £75, and Ill allow it to offset this amount 
against my award if that has been paid.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides replied. Ill set out each of those replies, then my response to each.
Miss H replied to say she still felt the theft of her money was directly related to the branch. 
She said there was no security at the branch on the day, which she said was suspicious. 
And she said despite the fact that shes a longstanding customer, the staff at the branch 
hadnt tried to help. Rather they rushed to delete CCTV recordings which could have helped.
Miss H was sure the bank violated all the procedures for issuing cash. She said now she 
was physically unable to enter the branch after what happened. She said she had severe 
mental trauma which was unlikely to allow her to use the services of this bank in the future. 
Miss H said the robbery had greatly affected her health and life.
I am sorry to hear about how this matter has affected Miss H, although I havent reached the 
same conclusions on who is responsible for this. For the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, I didnt think Halifax was responsible for her being robbed. I havent seen anything 
to make me think Halifax had altered its security arrangements on the day Miss H made her 
withdrawal, or that it deleted CCTV recordings which were relevant to this complaint, any 
earlier than it normally would. And I dont think Halifax either violated its own internal 
procedures for issuing cash, or acted unfairly or unreasonably when it handed Miss H her 
money. 
I still dont think its Halifaxs fault that Miss H was robbed. The award I suggested here was 
because I think it could have helped after the robbery, but it didnt.
Halifax also replied. It said it had asked the branch for comments about what happened to 
the relevant CCTV recordings, and unfortunately hadnt received any response. Halifax said 
it didnt know why the police didnt ask for recordings sooner, but it wouldnt keep those 
unless it received an appropriate request within the relevant timescales. It would still help the 
police as best it could now.
Halifax said the CCTV of the branch couldnt be used by the police for a prosecution 
anyway, as it wouldnt show the actual theft. Halifax thought the police had a better chance 
of a successful prosecution or identification from other, public CCTV systems. 
 
Halifax also said Miss Hs statement suggested shed only put half of the money in her bag 
after leaving the branch, and thats also when her friend put the other half in his pocket. 
Halifax said that suggested the money wasnt concealed immediately, and that might be 
another point of compromise not on Halifaxs premises.
 
Halifax said, considering all of this, it thought this could just have been an opportunistic 
crime. There was no evidence on why or when Miss H was targeted. And other CCTV would 
probably have been more use for Miss H and the police in any prosecution. So Halifax 
thought it wasnt appropriate for it, as a third party, to compensate an individual for such a 
situation. 
Id like to start by saying that Miss H told our service she had used a table in the public hall 
of the branch to put half the money in her bag. Although it isnt directly relevant to my 
conclusions in this case, I think its likely that Miss H and her friend did conceal this money 
before they left the branch.And Miss H also told our service that she asked the shops shed visited after being in the 
bank for their CCTV too, but she said those shops had their CCTV turned off. Miss H clearly 
felt that the best chance of identifying the thief was from the banks CCTV. 
Miss H thought this theft was related to the branch in some way. I have not reached the 
same view there, Ive not seen anything to make me think the bank or its branch staff were 
responsible for what happened to Miss H. Thats not why Im suggesting it pays Miss H 
some compensation.
But I do think the branch couldve helped. It could have saved the CCTV from the day in 
question, to show the police at a later point. And it didnt do that. 
We cant know if things would be any different, if Halifaxs branch had saved the CCTV for 
the police. I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think Miss H wouldve got her money 
back. And there may still not have been any successful prosecution if the CCTV had been 
saved. But when it was deleted, Miss H lost a chance of bringing this thief to justice. 
Miss H has set out just how much this issue has affected her. I dont think, for the reasons 
Ive explained, that this is all Halifaxs fault. But I do still think it should pay £250, for the 
impact on Miss H of it not helping after the theft, when it couldve done so.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Miss H a total of £250 in 
compensation. Bank of Scotland plc can count any payment of compensation it has already 
made for this complaint towards that total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman