DRN-2276229
The complaint
Mr Ms complained about the amount of the settlement he was paid by the Society of Lloyds 
(Lloyds) under his motor insurance policy when his vehicle was written off.
What happened
In 2012, Mr M bought a pickup truck which had been imported from the United States. He 
paid £10,000 for the truck and this amount was recorded as the value of the truck in his 
insurance documents. 
In 2019, Mr M accepted a policy his broker had found with Lloyds. The documentation 
completed still showed the trucks value as £10,000. 
Shortly after renewal, Mr M had an accident. This resulted in his truck being written off. He 
submitted a claim to Lloyds under the policy. Lloyds offered Mr M a settlement of £10,000, 
less his excess of £500.
Mr M wasnt happy with this offer. Hed searched and found that it would cost him much 
more than £10,000 to replace the truck, because the market value of this type of truck had 
actually increased. And he said he had a motor policy which said Lloyds would pay him the 
market value of his vehicle immediately before the loss. So he thought Lloyds should do that.  
Mr M raised his concerns with Lloyds. But Lloyds rejected them. They relied on a term in the 
policy which says they would pay:
the UK mainland market value of your vehicle as determined by us, immediately before the 
loss; up to the value shown on your schedule.
The value of the truck on Mr Ms policy schedule was £10,000. So Lloyds said that was as 
much as they had to pay.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to us. He told us 
that he hadnt realised the value of the truck would increase. And he said the value was only 
an estimate, so he didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to rely on it.
Our investigator tried to get information about the market value of the truck. But this was 
difficult because it had been imported and there are very few vehicles to compare it with. But 
Mr M did provide a number of adverts for similar trucks, all of which were significantly higher 
than £10,000.
Having considered all the information, our investigator concluded that Lloyds should pay Mr 
M the average of three valuations shed got. She didnt think it was fair to rely on the value 
Mr M had provided in 2012 to limit his settlement. She said Lloyds hadnt made it clear to Mr 
M how important that figure was. And that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr M not to have 
considered the value of the truck would go up.
I came to a different conclusion from our investigator. So I made a provisional decision. Id 
seen that Mr M had the opportunity to check the information in the policy before he bought it 
 including the value of £10,000. So I didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on 
that. 
But I didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to have deducted the excess of £500 from what they 
paid Mr M.  I thought they shouldve deducted the excess from his loss  not his policy limit.  
And because I was satisfied Mr Ms loss was well over £10,000, I provisionally decided 
Lloyds should pay him the £500 excess, plus 8% interest on the £500.
Neither party accepted my final decision.  Mr M thought he should be entitled to the market 
value of the truck.  And Lloyds didnt accept that they shouldnt have deducted the excess 
from the settlement paid to Mr M. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint as outlined in my provisional decision.  Ill 
explain why.
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments on my provisional decision. Hes said he didnt really 
have a choice about taking the policy out with Lloyds, because he bought it through a broker.
I know that Mr M bought the policy this way. But if hes unhappy with the sale, thats a matter 
he needs to raise with the broker.  Lloyds wasnt involved in the sale. So Ive only looked at 
the policy documentation provided to Mr M and the way Lloyds applied the terms when Mr M 
made his claim.
Mr M says his truck was insured for the market value  which was between £16,000 and 
£17,000. So he thinks thats what Lloyds should pay him.
Ive quoted the policy term above. I think its clear from that term that the truck wasnt simply 
insured for the market value  there was a limit on what that value might be. And the 
schedule is clear that limit is £10,000. 
I understand Mr M wasnt expecting the value of the truck to go up.  But the policy 
documentation states:
Your premium is based on the information you gave at the start of the insurance and when it 
is renewed.
You are responsible for the information you or your appointed representative has provided to 
us. You should ensure that the information provided is, as far as you know, correct and 
complete.
Its clear from this that Mr M was responsible for checking the information provided to Lloyds. 
And that the information would be used to calculate his premium. Im satisfied from this that 
the premium he paid was calculated on the basis that Lloyds wouldnt have to pay out more 
than £10,000 in the event of the truck being written off.  So I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Lloyds to pay out more than that.
Ive also thought about Lloyds comments on the excess.  Theyve said that its common 
practice to have an excess and that the policy wording says the excess is deductible in the 
event of a claim.
I agree its usual for an excess to be applied in a claim. But  as I said in my provisional 
decision  I think it should be deducted from Mr Ms loss, not his policy limit.  Mr M hasnt 
recovered all of his losses in this case, because of the limit that Lloyds have correctly 
applied to the market value. The policy explains that an excess will be deducted for each claim or loss. Mr Ms claim is for 
over £10,000, as is his loss. And, if the excess is deducted from the policy limit of £10,000, 
Mr M wouldnt ever be able to claim more than £9,500. So, as noted in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied the fair and reasonable action here is to apply the excess before the 
limit  so Mr M gets the £10,000 worth of cover he paid for.  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, I think Lloyds should pay Mr M the £500 excess they 
deducted from his settlement.  And because hes been without that money since the date of 
settlement, I think Lloyds should also pay Mr M interest on that amount at the rate of 8% per 
annum.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about the Society of Lloyds and 
directing they pay him 
the £500 excess they deducted from his settlement; and
8% simple interest on the £500 from the date they settled his claim until the date they 
pay him.
If Lloyds consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asked for one, so Mr M can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman