DRN-2912701
The complaint
 Mr H believes Moneybarn No.1 Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional sale 
agreement hed applied for.
What happened
 n May 2017, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. He paid a £400 deposit and the agreement was for £5,590 over 53 months, with 
an initial payment of £400 and 52 monthly repayments of £243.01.
Mr H has complained that Moneybarn didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Hes said he told the finance broker that his work was inconsistent, and that he could only 
afford £100 to £130 a month. He also said he was told he couldnt borrow what he was 
looking for, because it was such a small amount, and that he was encouraged to agree to a 
higher payment. 
Moneybarn didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mr H brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Moneybarn said they carried out the appropriate checks when they approved the finance. 
But they couldnt provide a copy of the credit file they checked for Mr H at the time. So the 
investigator relied on a credit file thatd been produced in 2019 but showed information that 
was likely to be present at the time Mr H applied for the finance, to establish what his 
financial circumstances were at the time of the application.
Having reviewed the credit file, and the bank statements Mr H provided Moneybarn at the 
time of the application, the investigator said Mr Hs average income was substantially less 
than Moneybarn had calculated. Taking this into consideration, as well as Mr Hs monthly 
expenditure at the time, the investigator said that Mr H didnt have sufficient disposable 
income left after paying Moneybarn to pay for food, other discretionary expenditure, and the 
costs involved with running a car. 
So, the investigator said Moneybarns lending decision wasnt fair, and they should cancel 
the agreement. She said Mr H should pay for the use of the car while he had it but, because 
the finance shouldnt have been agreed, any payments he made above the fair usage figure 
should be refunded. 
So the investigator said that Moneybarn should refund Mr H his deposit and all of the 
payments hed made (less the fair usage charge) plus interest. She also said Moneybarn 
should remove any negative information about the finance from Mr Hs credit file.
Moneybarn didnt agree with the investigator, and they believed theyd calculated Mr Hs 
income correctly. The investigator obtained more bank statements from Mr H and 
considered his income for the six months leading up to the finance being agreed. And, while 
this average income was greater than shed originally used, she still didnt think Mr H had 
sufficient disposable income. So Moneybarns comments didnt change her view.
However, because Mr H had paid more than the amount originally financed, the investigator 
changed her recommended remedy. She said Moneybarn should end the agreement, with 
Mr H keeping the car; refund anything Mr H has paid over the amount originally financed, 
plus statutory interest; and remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from 
Mr Hs credit file. Moneybarn didnt respond to the this change in recommended remedy, so 
the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Hs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Moneybarn havent provided a copy of the credit file they checked at the time of the 
application. But I have seen a copy of Mr Hs credit file from August 2019. As this shows 
details of Mr Hs credit commitments at the time of the application, Im satisfied its 
reasonable to rely on this information as part of my decision. The credit file Ive seen shows 
that, in April 2017, Mr H had three loans with payments totalling £139 a month; and four 
credit accounts in default, with a total default amount of £3,440. 
Different lenders have different criteria, and I dont think that Moneybarn shouldve declined 
the finance application just because Mr H had outstanding defaults. But I wouldve expected 
them to take these into consideration when making their lending decision.
The bank statements Mr H provided to Moneybarn show an average monthly income of 
£1,452.55 for February to April 2017. They also show a number of returned direct debits, 
which is an indicator that Mr H may be suffering financial difficulties. Mr H was paying £475 a 
month rent and £193 a month in household bills. Taking into consideration his existing loan 
payments, this would leave Mr H with £645.55 each month to pay his other outgoings.The income and expenditure form completed by Moneybarn shows Mr H also paid £285 a 
month for communications & leisure; £303.33 a month for food & housekeeping; £427.68 a 
month for transport & travel; and £50 a month for personal costs - a total of £1,066.01. The 
income and expenditure form also shows Mr H was behind with his payments for council tax, 
rent and ground rent. And it doesnt take into consideration any payments to his defaults.
Based on the above, Mr H didnt have sufficient income to cover his existing outgoings, let 
alone make any payments to his existing arrears. So he didnt have any disposable income 
from which to pay Moneybarn £243.01 a month.
Given this, I dont think that Moneybarn acted reasonably or proportionately by approving 
this finance agreement.
Would any additional checks Moneybarn couldve done have shown that Mr H could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Mr H has provided us with his bank statements for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 May 
2017. And these show his income over a longer, more sustained, period. And, if Moneybarn 
had asked for more proof of income, then these bank statements give a good indication of 
what Moneybarn would likely have discovered.
The bank statements show that Mr Hs average income for the six months before the finance 
was agreed (November 2016 to April 2017) was £1,113.44  less than the average amount 
showing in the bank statements Mr H provided Moneybarn as part of his application.
Based on this Im satisfied that, even if Moneybarn had looked at a longer time period, Mr 
Hs income was still insufficient to support his existing outgoing. So Moneybarn shouldnt 
have approved the finance.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
 As I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Mr H 
back in the position he wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. So I think that Moneybarn 
should cancel the agreement. But, because Mr H had already paid Moneybarn more than 
the original amount of the finance, he should be allowed to keep the car.
So, Moneybarn should:
cancel the agreement;
refund everything Mr H has paid above the original finance amount of £5,590, plus 
8% simple yearly interest on any overpayments Mr H has made, from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of the refund ; and
remove all adverse information relating to the finance agreement from Mr Hs credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Moneybarn No.1 Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman