DRN-3450418
The complaint
This complaints about mortgage that Miss A and Mr S took out with HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
The complaint is about how HSBC handled the application. In particular, Miss A and Mr S 
say they were misled about the requirement for an asbestos report, which resulted in the 
mortgage offer being reissued just before completion, and suggestions from the selling agent 
that Miss A and Mr S were misleading it and the vendor. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss A and Mr S and HSBC. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss A and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main 
points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
When the valuation was carried out on Miss A and Mr S proposed new home, the surveyor 
identified a possible risk of asbestos and said an asbestos report would be required; HSBC 
relayed this to Miss A and Mr S, and they commissioned a report at a cost of £500. The 
report recommended high-risk work be carried out, and HSBC said (mistakenly as it later 
turned out) the work would have to be done before it would issue an offer.
Miss A and Mr S negotiated a price reduction and, at the same time, the vendor agreed to do 
the remedial work before the sale. In the meantime, HSBC issued its mortgage offer without 
waiting for the remedial work to be carried out. However, the offer was incorrect, because it 
didnt reflect the price reduction (even though HSBC had been told about the new price) so it 
had to be reissued. 
This produced an opportunity for Miss A and Mr S to have a lower rate, but it meant paying 
another booking fee, so they stayed with the same rate. The new offer was issued, but only 
a short time before the scheduled completion, leaving Miss A and Mr S feeling very stressed. 
When they complained, HSBC apologised and offered £100 compensation for their time, 
trouble and upset. Miss A and Mr S didnt think HSBC had taken the complaint seriously, 
and so referred it to us.
Our investigator thought HSBC had offered a fair settlement, but Miss A and Mr S consider 
that more compensation is due. They believe theyve wasted £500 on an asbestos report 
that wasnt needed, and say their relationship with the selling agent has been damaged 
because the agent didnt believe them when they said the work had to be done before offer. 
As the agent is the only one in their small community, Miss A and Mr S are concerned about 
future dealings  as both buyers and sellers - if they try to move again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
Miss A and Mr S are mistaken when they say they paid £500 for a report that wasnt needed. 
The report was needed; the surveyor said as much, not least because he had detected the 
potential presence of highly toxic material in the house Miss A and Mr S were hoping to buy. 
HSBC didnt mislead them about the need for the report; as lender, HSBC always needed to 
see what the report said before it would agree to lend. Where it did mislead Miss A and Mr S 
is when it said the remedial work the report recommended would have to be completed 
before it would lend.
I appreciate that misinformation contributed to some difficult conversations between Miss A 
and Mr S and the selling agent, and Ill come back to that point shortly. Meanwhile, Miss A 
and Mr S dispute the investigators opinion that they benefitted from the price reduction that 
the report enabled them to negotiate. They say they could have done that anyway. 
Whether the report provided Miss A and Mr S a financial benefit might be debatable, but its 
not what the complaint turns on. Thats because Im satisfied it caused them no financial 
loss. The money they spent on the asbestos report was always going to need spending, for 
the reasons Ive set out already. But aside from HSBCs requirements as lender, it seems to 
me that from Miss A and Mrs S point of view as buyers, £500 was money worth spending for 
the peace of mind the report, and the resulting remedial work, provided.
I said Id come back to the impact of HSBCs error on relations between Miss A and Mr S 
and the selling agent. Ive no doubt it was an unpleasant experience for them to be, in effect, 
accused of lying. I can also understand why they might have concerns that there might be a 
legacy effect in any future dealings with that agent. 
But the remedy for that is already in Miss A and Mr S hands. They have the final response 
from HSBC, which amounts to a written admission that it misled them, and an apology for 
having done so. HSBC provided that in July 2021. All Miss A and Mr S would have needed 
to do, at any time since July 2021, is to have shown that letter to the selling agent. If any 
ill-feeling or awkwardness lingered thereafter, I couldnt fairly attribute that to anything HSBC 
said or did.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Miss A and Mr S. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in moving house. But I have to take a step back and assess things objectively. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I think that £100 is fair compensation for the impact of 
what HSBC actually got wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Miss A and Mr S to decide 
whether, on further reflection they wish to accept HSBCs settlement offer. In the event they 
do, they can either contact the business directly or let our investigator know.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman