DRN-2657892
The complaint
Mrs H has complained American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) is holding her 
liable for a credit card debt when she never applied for or used the card.
What happened
In February 2017, Amex received an online application from Mrs H. This was in her name 
but used an email address that wasnt hers. Amex accepted the application, granted a credit 
limit of £1,000 and sent a card and PIN to Mrs Hs address. Pretty quickly a large amount of 
payments were made on the card. Attempts to pay part of the bill on four different debit 
cards were made in March 2017. These were for varying amounts up to £1,000. Three of 
those payments were disputed as fraudulent.
As the outstanding credit card bill totalled over £2,000, Amex started to write to Mrs H for 
repayment and also called her at work. One of her sons, on her behalf, tried to explain that 
shed never applied for the card. As the card had been sent to Mrs Hs address, Amex was 
not prepared to accept this was the case. They closed the account, added a default to 
Mrs Hs credit record and also added a fraud marker to her CIFAS record.
Mrs Hs son (who Ill call Mr A) brought her complaint to the ombudsman service on her 
behalf. Our investigator carried out a detailed investigation. But a lot of the evidence no 
longer existed: specifically calls made from the same mobile number that Mr A later told 
Amex was his mothers mobile. Nor was Amex able to confirm any details about whose debit 
cards were used to try and make payments to the account.
However, our investigator felt overall Amex were able to expect Mrs H to pay this debt. 
There seemed little doubt the card had been sent to her home address and she didnt think 
the application was made by an unknown third party.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to consider his mothers 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Theres only one real issue at the heart of this complaint. If Mrs H didnt complete the credit 
application or benefit from the credit card spend, can Amex still hold her liable? 
It isnt our role to discover either who applied for the credit card nor who made the 
transactions. But if Im to uphold this complaint I do need to be satisfied that Mrs H didnt 
apply for the card or made or authorised the transactions herself. One of the aspects that will 
determine my view is deciding what Mrs H knew at the time.
To help me decide this, Ive considered the evidence provided by Amex, including a copy of 
the original online application, customer contact notes and credit card statements. Amex has 
not been able to confirm whether the cards used to attempt four payments to the account 
were in Mrs Hs name  although based on what I know of Mrs Hs situation and her banking 
relationships, I think this is extremely unlikely. Nor do they still hold any copies of calls made 
by Mrs H and her son when they raised their concerns with Amex. However, I can see from 
the customer records that the mobile number used to call Amex on 16 March 2017  with a 
woman initially passing security and then passing the phone to her son  was the number 
Mr A told Amex a few months later belonged to his mother.
Theres no dispute that the email address used to apply for the credit card wasnt Mrs Hs. 
This isnt in itself necessarily surprising. This was an email address which appears to belong 
to Mrs Hs other son. Mr A has told me that his brother completely denies this was him. Hes 
also stated it would be easy to set up an email address in his brothers name without his 
knowledge. I accept that can be the case. However, Id have to wonder if fake emails were 
being set up to manage the account, why this wasnt set up in Mrs Hs own name. I believe 
this would have been more logical if committing fraud and suggests to me that the 
implications hadnt been completely thought through.
I can also see the card and PIN were sent out to Mrs Hs home address. So that means the 
number of people who had access to this card remains quite small. Amexs contact notes 
make it clear that the recipient set the account to switch off paper statements. This explains 
why Mrs H says she may not have known anything about the card until Amex closed the 
account for non-payment. Mrs H started getting calls at work about non-payment. After this, 
Mrs H, through her son, immediately got in touch with Amex to explain shed never applied 
for or used this card.
But this doesnt tally with the evidence that Mrs H called Amex from her own phone number 
in March. The call was handed over to one of her sons after Mrs H completed security. This 
confirms Mrs H must have been aware of a card in her name  whether she applied for it or 
not  and was therefore I believe tacitly authorising the transactions made on it. Particularly 
as this call was all about removing any block to the cards use.
I have copies of the Amex statements along with Mrs Hs bank statements. I have compared 
the two to review the card usage.  
Mrs Hs use of her bank account is very home-based. She made transfers to her children 
and took out cash from local cash machines. There were few instances of debit card spend. 
The person using the credit card account used cash machines a few times but generally 
from 2 March to 21 April 2017 spent on meals and general retail purchases, along with four 
large wholesale outlet purchases. This is different usage. Whilst this doesnt mean alone this 
wasnt Mrs H using the card, it does suggest to me it may not have been.
What is also true is the usage  including the retail spend  doesnt suggest these payments 
were being made by an unknown third party.  
Ive seen nothing to suggest the card and PIN werent sent to Mrs Hs home address. And 
then used by someone whod applied for the card using Mrs Hs personal details, which were 
obviously well-known to them, but carefully avoiding using Mrs Hs email address or similar 
(but providing details of Mrs Hs work number). Its quite difficult to conclude other than a 
member of Mrs Hs family applied for and used the card if it wasnt Mrs H herself. I 
appreciate that Mrs Hs son denies this but Im not sure what other conclusion can be drawn.
I have also considered whether Mrs H knew about or was a party to the use of the card as 
referred above. Mrs Hs complaint has been managed by her son but our investigator did speak to her at one stage. Whilst Mrs H wasnt comfortable speaking English, our 
investigator believed it was most likely shed have understood what Amex was talking about 
when they were discussing the card in her name.
I have also reviewed the letters sent to Amex about this debt, and Amexs own contact 
notes. This amounts to Mrs Hs recollections and arguments why this wasnt her. 
Ive already considered another case brought by Mrs H against another credit card provider. 
This case is different however. There is clear evidence that Mrs H spoke to Amex on more 
than one occasion and passed security. Its difficult to ignore this and come to any other 
conclusion than Mrs H knew an Amex card had been taken out in her name. Otherwise why 
would she have to pass security.
Whilst it remains possible that Mrs H didnt initially know about or make the Amex 
application, I find it hard to ignore that she certainly became aware of the card. She took no 
steps to deny the transactions were hers and, in fact, helped her son query why the card had 
been stopped. This doesnt seem to fit with the idea that she knew nothing about the card or 
the transactions as Mr A now says.
Overall, and on the balance of possibilities, I believe theres enough evidence to show Mrs H 
knew about the Amex card in her name and authorised its use. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint against American 
Express Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman