DRN-4309154
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was around 11 years old and 
had covered around 117,426 miles.
Mr M experienced some issues with the brakes. He contacted the supplying dealer who told 
him to bring the car in. Mr M says that the dealership told him they had repaired a sensor on 
the brakes.
When Mr M got the car back it was making a noise, so he took it to a garage. In October 
2022 a vehicle health check showed that the clutch was worn, that the rear brake pads 
needed replacing, that a brake fluid change was overdue and that there was play in the 
console bushes.
The car was also inspected by another garage who quoted Mr M for some work to the 
suspension.
Mr M says he contacted the supplying dealer again but when he got there, they said they 
wouldnt carry out the repairs because it was too expensive. Mr M says that the situation 
escalated and that he drove off because he felt threatened.
Mr M complained to Close Brothers. Close Brothers said it wanted to arrange an 
independent inspection of the car. Mr M didnt agree because he thought the report would be 
used against him.
In its final response, Close Brothers didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr M hadnt 
agreed to an inspection to validate the faults and hadnt provided a third party report. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, and that the issues 
experienced by Mr M were more likely due to reasonable wear and tear.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car, such as that supplied to Mr M, to have a degree of wear 
and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the point of 
supply, as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear and tear.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues which occurred with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. I say this because 
the inspections which were carried out on the car showed that there were issues with the 
brakes, clutch and suspension.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive 
reviewed the available evidence to determine whether the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr M.
Theres no independent inspection report here. So, Ive looked at the reports provided by the 
garages that Mr M took the car to. None of these reports state that the fault identified 
wouldve been present or developing at the point of supply. 
Ive considered the nature of the faults that were diagnosed. All of the issues  the brakes, 
the clutch and the suspension  are things that are likely to be subject to general wear and 
tear as a car gets older and covers more mileage. So, for instance, a clutch can reasonably 
be expected to last up to around 100,000 miles depending on how the car has been driven 
and whether its been regularly serviced. In other words, the clutch is something that a 
consumer might reasonably expect to replace during the lifetime of a car. In this case, Mr 
Ms car had covered around 117,000 miles at the point of supply. In the absence of any 
evidence that the clutch had an inherent defect, I think its likely that the clutch needed 
replacement due to general wear and tear. This isnt something I can fairly hold Close 
Brothers responsible for.
Ive reached the same conclusions about the brakes and the suspension. These are 
serviceable component parts of the car which are likely to require replacement due to 
general wear and tear.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the car supplied 
to Mr M had an inherent defect, Im of the view that the issues experienced by Mr M were 
due to general wear and tear. 
I appreciate that Mr M has suffered inconvenience because he hadnt been able to use the 
car. However, having considered the issues and reviewed the available evidence, there isnt 
enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
For these reasons, I wont be asking Close Brothers to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman