DRN-3845153
The complaint
Mrs J complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim on her home insurance.
What happened
Mrs J had a home insurance policy with RSA. In December 2021 she made a claim after 
noticing water dripping through her kitchen ceiling from the family bathroom above. She said 
her husband had fallen in the shower around this time and had grabbed hold of the shower 
unit, pulling it away from the wall slightly. She thought this was the likely cause of the leak. 
RSA initially accepted the claim and sent a contractor to inspect the damage. However on 
inspection it had further questions about the claim, as the damage was in the same location 
as a claim for a leak made two years previously. It asked for additional evidence and set up 
an investigation interview in order to get a statement from Mrs J.
Following this it declined the claim as it thought the damage was linked to the claim in 2020 
that had already been settled. 
Mrs J didnt think this was fair as she said she had two toilets replaced to fix the previous 
leak. And she was unhappy with how RSA had dealt with the claim, as she felt the interview 
was conducted unprofessionally and she said RSAs contractors questions made her feel 
like they were suggesting she had committed fraud which caused her significant distress. 
She made two complaints about her concerns. 
RSA offered Mrs J a total of £300 compensation across the complaints to apologise for the 
delays. However it didnt agree it had acted unreasonably in its investigation or decision on 
the claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld so she asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its of note that Mrs J made a second claim in January 2022 relating to her downstairs toilet. 
She has also complained about issues relating to that claim, however they are being dealt 
with under separate complaints, so I wont consider those issues in this decision. 
Mrs J had made a claim in 2020 that had been settled by RSA. While she was responsible 
for finding the cause of the leak and fixing it, RSA paid for the repairs to the kitchen ceiling to 
be carried out once this was done. RSA were concerned that if the damage was caused by 
the same problem from the 2020 claim, then that would indicate the leak wasnt found and 
fixed. And if that were the case the new claim wouldnt be covered under the policy as it 
would be due to the original problem not being correctly rectified. 
Mrs J has said that she had two toilets removed in order to fix the leak from the 2020 claim. 
And some plastering was done to repair the kitchen ceiling. However shes not been able to 
provide any persuasive evidence to show that this was completed, any details of the 
contractor she used or how payment was made or that the cause was investigated and 
identified as the toilets.
Further, RSAs provided claim notes that show that while it didnt carry out an investigation 
into the cause of the 2020 claim, it recorded that it suspected the leak had come from a bath 
or shower. So it isnt clear why Mrs J subsequently had toilets removed. And shes not been 
able to provide anything to show why this was. 
So based on this I dont think Mrs J had provided enough to show that the cause of the leak 
from the 2020 claim was identified and the relevant problem was fixed. And I think its 
reasonable that RSA tried to establish this and declined the claim because its not been able 
to. 
Its important to note that in declining the claim RSA arent saying that there isnt new 
damage. Just that its been unable to conclude that the new damage wasnt linked to the 
problem that caused the damage in the 2020 claim. Which, based on the evidence, I think is 
a reasonable conclusion.
Ive also considered how RSA handled the claim and its investigation. And while the claim 
took longer to decide on than wed normally expect this was due to the additional 
investigations that RSA needed to carry out. And I dont consider this unreasonable.
Ive considered the questions asked by RSA both by email and in the filmed video interview. 
And I dont consider those to be unreasonable either. They focussed on the information that 
RSA needed to get answers to in order to make a decision on a claim. And were only 
repetitive because the answers given didnt provide the detail it needed.
However I agree that insisting the interview was conducted while Mrs J was still at work was 
poor service. And I think this would have caused Mrs J additional distress as well as 
inconvenience. While I appreciate RSAs reasons for doing so, I think a more suitable 
solution could have been found that would have been more comfortable for Mrs J. 
Further I agree there were some delays that could have been avoided. For example RSA 
could have referred the claim for investigation sooner in the process and this would have led 
to an earlier conclusion of the claim which would have reduced the distress and 
inconvenience felt by her. For these reasons I think the £300 compensation offered by RSA 
is a fair amount to apologise for these delays and poor service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman