DRN-3573912
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company, (Shop Direct), lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
in June 2007 with an initial credit limit of £200. The second was opened in December 2009
with an initial credit limit of £1,000.
The credit limit on each account was increased over time. The first account was increased
gradually until in September 2016 the limit was £3,700. The limit was decreased in
November 2018 and June 2019, ending up at £2,400. Eventually Miss C defaulted on this
account in August 2019 and the account was sold to a third-party debt collection agency in
January 2020.
The second account credit limit was also increased several times until in January 2014 it
was £3,800. It was later decreased to £1,300 before being increased to £2,300 in May 2018.
Miss C says that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt
take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit.
She says Shop Direct didnt check it was affordable for her and that she has struggled with
debt ever since.
Shop Direct agreed that it shouldnt have increased Miss Cs credit limit on the second
account in May 2018 and it paid compensation to Miss C as a result.
Miss C considered that Shop Direct should have done more. She says it was clear that she
was having difficulty repaying her credit long before May 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. They didnt think Shop Direct had done
anything wrong in its lending decisions before May 2018.
Ms C disagreed. She told the adjudicator that she had taken out a large amount of credit 
with third parties during the course of her credit agreements with Shop Direct and that
if Shop Direct had conducted proper checks at each point where it increased her credit limit ,
Shop Direct would have seen that her debt was not manageable. Miss C says if Shop Direct
had done proper checks it would have seen that she was only working 12 hours a week and
could not sustain her repayments. Miss C says that between September 2012 and July 2015
she made multiple late payments until she finally contacted Shop Direct to set up a payment
plan.
Miss C provided a copy of a credit agreement in relation to the purchase of a vehicle in
March 2015 to support her assertion that if Shop Direct had completed proper checks it
would have recognised that she was over-indebted.
As Miss C did not agree the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I agreed with Miss C and issued a provisional decision to all parties explaining that I 
intended to uphold her complaint from the point of the credit limit increase in May 2018. I 
invited parties to make comments by 28 June 2022 on my provisional decision. Miss C 
confirmed she had no comment to make and Shop Direct did not respond. I therefore see no 
reason to change my findings which are set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I considered Miss Cs complaint.
Having done so, I came to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. I dont think Shop
Direct acted unfairly and lent to Miss C irresponsibly in the early stages of her credit
agreements, but I think it acted unfairly later on when Miss C got into financial difficulty. Ill
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amount, Miss Cs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Shop Direct doesnt have a record of the checks it completed when Miss C opened her first
account in 2007. I dont think this is unreasonable given the time that has passed since then.
The original limit was only £200 and I havent seen anything to suggest that this limit was
unaffordable for Miss C at the time.
Shop Direct has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Miss Cs second
account in 2009. It says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss C in the way that
it did.
I can see from this list that Shop Direct saw that Miss C was up to date with all her existing
credit and that she not been in arrears with any credit line in the preceding 24 months. The
overall credit available to her was relatively low at £1,650. Miss C was provided with a
relatively large initial credit limit on this account of £1,000 but, again, I havent seen anything
to suggest this was not affordable for Miss C. It appears that other than her initial purchase
on the first account, which she paid off in full in March 2008, she hadnt used any credit on
her first Shop Direct account by the time she opened the second.
Miss C managed her accounts well for a number of years. Each account had its credit limit
increased a number of times, but Miss C rarely missed payments and when she did she
made them up quickly.
However, in May 2018, Shop Direct increased Miss Cs limit by £1,000 to £2,300. It did this
when she had not paid the minimum repayment for three months and had incurred
administration charges each time. Shop Direct agreed before Miss C brought her complaint
to this service that it shouldnt have done that and it refunded the interest and charges she
paid as a result after that. I think that was the right thing to do.
However, I think it should have gone further. I think Shop Direct should have looked
holistically at how Miss C was managing both accounts she had. At the time of the May 2018
increase on her second account Miss C had already failed to meet her minimum repaymentson her first account for four months in a row. And she had been in arrears for one month in
the three months before the May 2018 increase. While she managed to maintain her
repayments between April 2018 and August 2018 she then fell into permanent arrears on
her first account in September 2018. Shop Direct appears to have frozen the interest and
charges from February 2019.
I think Shop Direct should have done this sooner. I think it should have noted and acted on
the fact Miss C had missed the minimum repayments on her second account in the three
months leading up to May 2018. Shop Direct accepts it shouldnt have increased her credit
limit in May 2018 and Miss C slipped into arrears on that second account in September 2018
too. The combination of the increase in her credit limit on the second account, which enabled
her to spend more, which Shop Direct acknowledges was wrong, and the way she was
managing her first account around the same time, satisfies me that by May 2018 Shop Direct
should have known that Miss C was experiencing financial difficulties.
I dont know what checks Shop Direct did each month as it hasnt supplied evidence of
them. But Miss C has provided evidence to show that she had a large amount of credit
elsewhere. I think if Shop Direct had completed credit reference checks each month it would
have realised Miss C was over-indebted and would have problems making her repayments.
On balance, I think Miss C lost out as a result of what Shop Direct did wrong.
Putting things right
As I uphold this complaint in part, I think to put things right it is fair and reasonable for Shop
Direct to refund any interest and charges incurred by Miss C on her first account since May
2018. This is because I think Shop Direct should have frozen Miss Cs accounts in May
2018. To reflect this Shop Direct should:
remove all charges and interest (including BNPL interest) incurred on the account
since May 2018.
Work out how much Miss C would have owed after the above adjustments. Any
repayment Miss C made since May 2018 should be used to reduce the adjusted
balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss C
along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date of overpayment to the date
of settlement.
If after all the adjustments have been made Miss C no longer owes any money then
all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from May 2018.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange an
affordable payment plan with Miss C for the outstanding amount. As the debt was
sold to a third party, Shop Direct must either repurchase the debt or liaise with the 
third party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Miss C has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information should be removed from the credit file
.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss C a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I partially uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Shop 
Direct to pay redress as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman