DRN-2854811
The complaint
Mr C complains about a decreasing term life assurance and critical illness cover policy sold 
to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc. He says he was forced to have the policy when it wasnt 
needed. 
What happened
Mr C and his business partners took out a 15-year loan with HSBC in 2007. As part of that 
process, HSBC completed a financial review for each of the partners. 
A document from the time recorded that Mr C and one of the other partners made a critical 
contribution to the businesss earnings. So HSBC recommended Mr C and the other partner 
should have life assurance and critical illness cover, for the term of the loan. 
Mr C complained that hed had to have the cover HSBC sold to get the business loan. 
HSBCs July 2019 response to the complaint said:
As part of the lending agreement, the advisor required you to take out a life and 
critical illness policy to ensure the mortgage loan would be repaid if the worst were to 
have happened.
They went on to say that as the sum assured and the term of the policy matched up with the 
loan, the policy seemed reasonable to them. 
Mr C also complained that the policy hadnt been cancelled when the loan was paid off early. 
HSBC explained that wouldnt usually happen, as the policyholder needed to confirm they 
were happy not having cover before the policy was cancelled. But HSBC did offer to refund 
the premiums Mr C had paid since the loan was paid off  a total of £523.83.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response, so he brought the complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked at the details, and found HSBCs service had been reasonable. He noted HSBC were 
allowed to say this sort of policy was needed on a business loan. And he felt the policy 
recommended  with its fixed term and decreasing sum assured  was suitable for Mr C. 
Our investigator felt HSBC had been right not to automatically cancel the policy when the 
loan was paid off. But he acknowledged the refund theyd offered as being a reasonable step 
to try to resolve the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with that view, and asked for the case to be looked at again. So its come to 
me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
As a starting point, it wouldnt necessarily be unreasonable if HSBC had said Mr C needed 
to have this policy in order to get the business loan. There werent any rules in 2007 to say 
they couldnt make it a condition of the lending. 
I cant be entirely sure if it was or wasnt a condition of the lending. HSBCs first response to 
the complaint seems to say it was, but theyve since told us theyre not sure. I havent seen 
anything from the time that confirms it, either way. 
The bigger question though is whether the policy lined up with Mr Cs circumstances. If it 
didnt  for example, if the sum assured was very different to amount borrowed  then the 
recommendation to have the policy could have been unsuitable. Equally, if Mr Cs 
circumstances showed the policy would be of benefit to him and his business, the 
recommendation to have it probably was suitable. 
Here, I can see the sum assured and the term of the policy matched up with the loan, when 
it was taken out. And the recommendation to have the policy looks to have come after a 
detailed discussion with Mr C and his business partners about the nature of their business, 
and Mr Cs role in it. The policy looks to reasonably match up with what HSBC found from 
talking to Mr C and his partners. 
As such, I find this policy  more likely than not  was suitable for Mr C at the time. It hasnt 
been mis-sold. 
I note Mr Cs mentioned that his circumstances changed shortly after he took out the policy. 
But I cant see anything in the documents from the time that would have told HSBC that was 
going to happen, when they gave their advice. As such, I find HSBC didnt need to account 
for the changes Mr Cs mentioned when they were giving him their advice. 
Its true that when the loan was paid off early, the policy wasnt automatically cancelled. That 
seems to reflect that the policy and the loan were two different things. Its not a case of there 
being no benefit in the policy continuing  Mr C or his estate could still have claimed against 
the policy, even though the loan was paid off.
I wouldnt expect HSBC to have assumed that the policy should be cancelled, just because 
the loan was paid off. It was for the policyholder to decide whether to cancel the policy or 
keep it. 
As such, I dont think the refund HSBC offered Mr C was needed to put anything right in this 
complaint. But I appreciate it was put forward as a goodwill offer. Its not part of my decision, 
but I recognise HSBC have offered Mr C that refund. Theres nothing further needed from 
them to put right this complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman