DRN-3762983
The complaint
Mr B has complained about delays when he transferred his pensions with another provider 
to The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London). 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2022. Ive recapped here the background 
and my provisional findings. 
Mr B had two personal pension policies with another provider (the ceding scheme) which
arose out of his membership of his former employers pension scheme. Mr B changed
employers and he wanted to transfer the two policies to his new employers pension scheme
with Royal London (the receiving scheme). Mr B first contacted Royal London in May 2020
about transferring. The transfer of one policy was completed on 16 December 2020 and the
transfer of the other on 5 January 2021. Mr B was unhappy with the time the transfers took.
Hes complained to both providers involved  Royal London and the ceding scheme. This
complaint concerns Royal London. Ive set out a timeline of Royal Londons key dealings
with the ceding scheme and Mr B.
19 May 2020: Mr B, a new member via his new employers scheme, emailed Royal London
about transferring.
22 May 2020: Royal London responded to Mr B enclosing a letter of authority (LOA) for him
to complete and return which Mr B did the same day.
1 June 2020: Mr B chased Royal London for confirmation of receipt of the LOA.
12 June 2020: Royal London wrote to the ceding scheme requesting information about Mr 
Bs policies and enclosing the LOA.
17 July 2020: Royal London chased the ceding scheme by email.
10 September 2020: Royal London chased the ceding scheme again and resent the emails
The ceding scheme replied by email saying it couldnt open the email and asked for it to be
resent.
29 September 2020: Royal London received a letter from Mr B with a request from the
ceding scheme.
1 October 2020: Royal London wrote to the ceding scheme with a request for information
and enclosing a LOA.
20 October 2020: Royal London chased the ceding scheme by email. Royal London sent an
update to Mr B.
23 October 2020: Royal London received information about Mr Bs policies from the ceding
scheme.
5 November 2020: Royal London emailed Mr B with illustrations and forms to complete it he
wanted to go ahead with the transfers.
16 November 2020: Mr B returned documentation to Royal London. It says Mr B only
included one transfer pack.
3 December 2020: Royal London raised an Origo transfer request with ceding scheme for
one of the policies.
24 December 2020: Royal London told Mr B that it had only received on transfer pack.
4 January 2021: Royal London raised an Origo transfer request with the ceding scheme for
the other policy.
5 January 2021: The second transfer was completed and confirmation sent to Mr B.
In its final response letter dated 13 January 2021 Royal London upheld Mr Bs complaint. It
said it had arranged for a payment of £350 to be paid into his account by way of an apology
for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He set out what he thought were
reasonable SLAs (service level agreements) as to the time that tasks shouldve taken.
Send LOA or reply to an email: three working days
Request transfer of funds via Origo after customer confirmation: three working days
Send funds after Origo transfer request: three working days
Send information request or produce illustrations: five working days
Chase third party business if no reply: ten working days
Against that background the investigator set out the time line he thought shouldve applied:
22 May 2020: Mr B returned the LOA to Royal London
27 May 2020: Royal London shouldve sent the LOA to the ceding scheme
3 June 2020: the ceding scheme shouldve sent information about the policies to Royal
London
10 June 2020: illustrations shouldve been sent by Royal London to Mr B
21 June 2020: Mr B wouldve confirmed to Royal London that he wanted to go ahead
with the transfers (thats based on the actual timescale of 11 days)
24 June 2020: Royal London shouldve sent an Origo transfer request to the ceding scheme
to the ceding scheme
29 June 2020: the ceding scheme shouldve sent the funds to Royal London.
If both transfers shouldve been completed by 29 June 2020, the delay for the first transfer
was 170 days and 190 days for the second. The investigator apportioned the delays
between Royal London and the ceding scheme. He took into account that the ceding
scheme had received a request for information and a LOA from Royal London on 12 June
2020 plus further reminders. His view was that, had the ceding scheme dealt with things
promptly at the initial stages, the transfers wouldve happened much earlier. Royal London
had already paid £350 for the trouble and upset Mr B had been caused which the
investigator said was reasonable.
Royal London accepted the investigators view. The ceding scheme didnt. It accepted
thered been a delay in transferring one of the policies. It had received the transfer request
on 3 December 2020 but, due to human error, the policy wasnt transferred until 16
December 2020. The ceding scheme asked Royal London for information to calculate if Mr B
had suffered a financial loss due to the delay. It seems that wasnt initially provided, despite
the ceding scheme chasing it. But Royal London did supply it later. It showed Mr B hadnt
suffered any financial loss.
The investigator considered things again in the light of comments made by the ceding
scheme who it seemed hadnt received Royal Londons letter of 12 June 2020. If that was
right, the investigator didnt think the ceding scheme could be responsible for any delay
between then and 17 July 2020 when Royal London had chased things up. The investigator
also thought Royal London shouldve done that earlier. The investigator amended his
conclusions as to how the delay should be apportioned.
Royal London didnt comment on the investigators revised view. We told Royal London the
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman. The investigator sent a further letter on 15
August 2022 confirming that and asking for any further comments by 29 August 2022. Wedidnt receive any further comments from Mr B or Royal London.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Mr B complained to both Royal London and the ceding scheme. Weve
investigated the two complaints alongside one another. But the investigator issued separate
views and Im issuing separate decisions. This decision concerns Mr Bs complaint about
Royal London  the receiving scheme.
I think the SLAs set out by the investigator are a reasonable benchmark. But I bear in mind
that there might be some slippage. If one or two steps took a slightly longer time then I dont
think that must mean the time taken was excessive. Ive considered how the transfers were
progressed generally.
I note, in its initial email sent to Mr B on 22 May 2020, Royal London said it would be doing
all the leg work and all Mr B had do was to complete the attached from (the LOA). Mr B did
that and returned it the same day. But, and despite Mr B having chased up safe receipt,
Royal London didnt contact the ceding scheme until 12 June 2020. Further, when the
ceding scheme didnt reply promptly with the information requested, it wasnt until 17 July
2020 that Royal London chased the ceding scheme. By then getting on for two months had
already passed. I think all of that time was down to Royal London.
Royal London has produced a copy of the email it says it sent to the ceding scheme on 17
July 2020. Its unclear if the ceding scheme received the email and if it contained sufficient
information to identify Mr B and trace his policies. The investigator noted that an attachment
appeared to have been removed from a later email Royal London sent to the ceding scheme
(on 10 September 2020). So it was possible the same thing had happened earlier. If the LOA
was removed then there wouldnt have been sufficient information to identify Mr B.
I dont have any reason to say the email wasnt sent by Royal London and Id assume that
the ceding scheme received it. It shouldve taken some action  even if only to respond to
Royal London to say it couldnt trace the customer and/or policies and that more information
was needed. Thats what seems to have happened when the ceding scheme received a
further email from Royal London on 10 September 2020.
But Im not sure much turns on any failing by the ceding scheme in respect of the email
Royal London sent on 17 July 2020, given that Mr B contacted the ceding scheme direct on
the same day. It seems he told the ceding scheme that Royal London had sent an
information request on 12 June 2020. The ceding scheme said it had no record of that. But it
was able to locate Mr Bs policies and send statements showing the current values, transfer
discharge forms, the receiving schemes transfer statement and plan details were emailed
direct to Mr B. Id assume hed have passed the information on to Royal London.
But it wasnt until 10 September 2020 that Royal London contacted the ceding scheme again
and resent the earlier emails. This time the ceding scheme did respond  it told Royal
London it was unable to open the emails and asked for them to be resent. And, as Ive
mentioned, it seems there was an issue with an attachment to Royal Londons email being
removed. But, even if that issue shouldnt have arisen at the ceding schemes end, the
ceding scheme did tell Royal London it was unable to open the email and asked for it to be
resent.
I dont see that the ceding scheme can be responsible for any delay when it had told RoyalLondon there was a problem which Royal London failed to respond to by contacting the
ceding scheme. Royal London couldve resent the emails or called the ceding scheme to try
to sort out the problem or sent a further request by post. Royal London did that but not until 1
October 2020. Which meant, in the interim, the ceding scheme was unaware it needed to do
something.
It seems Royal London tried again to contact the ceding scheme then because Mr B had
been in touch with Royal London direct. He enclosed forms for Royal London to complete
and return to the ceding scheme at the address he set out. And which he said would start
the process of transferring his policies. Ive seen that on the same date (29 September
2020) the ceding scheme also received a letter from Mr B enclosing transfer discharge forms
for both policies.
The ceding scheme got Royal Londons letter of 1 October 2020 with enclosed LOA on 5
October 2020 and was able to trace the policies. I dont think it was because Royal London
had included further or different policy details. I think it was because the ceding scheme then
had Mr Bs name and his address (which appeared on both the covering letter and the LOA)
which enabled it to trace his policies  I think the ceding scheme wrote the policy number by
hand on the covering letter so it wasnt supplied by Royal London. Before then, as the
ceding scheme hadnt been able to open the emails and attachments Royal London had
sent, the ceding scheme didnt have Mr Bs address.
The ceding scheme sent the information requested to the Royal London on 13 October
2020. Given that the ceding scheme didnt receive the request until 5 October 2020 thats
only just outside the five working days SLA that the investigator suggested was reasonable
for responding to a request for information. And the ceding scheme had to trace the policies
too. I dont think the time taken by the ceding scheme was unreasonable. I understand that
Royal London didnt receive the information until 23 October 2020. But if Im satisfied the
ceding scheme sent the information within a reasonable period I dont see that scheme is
responsible for the time it took to get to Royal London.
Royal London emailed illustrations to Mr B and forms to complete it he wanted to go ahead
with the transfers on 5 November 2020. Thats longer than the five working days that the
investigator suggested wouldve been a reasonable SLA. It then took Mr B a little time to
return the paperwork to Royal London  eleven days. And it wasnt then until 3 December
2020 that Royal London sent an Origo transfer request for one of the policies to the ceding
scheme. Again that was longer than the three working days that the investigator said
shouldve applied. The ceding scheme accepts there were errors which delayed that transfer
being completed. But there was no financial loss and late interest was paid.
It wasnt until 4 January 2021 that the ceding scheme received a transfer request for the
other policy. Royal London says the delay was because it had only received one transfer
pack from Mr B. He disputes that  he says he sent both back to Royal London in the same
envelope. As it wouldve been destroyed by the post room it wasnt possible to check. But
Im inclined to accept what Mr B says  his recollection is that he returned the forms for both
policies at the same time. I dont think hes likely to have made a mistake about that. Hes
done what he can to try to move the transfers along. Hed been trying to transfer for some
time and I think hed have been careful to ensure that he did all he could to make that
happen, including returning all necessary forms.
To sum up, I think there was delay on the part of Royal London more or less throughout. I
dont think Royal London can be held responsible for the time taken to get the information
following its 1 October 2020 request. So Ive taken that period into account. Along with the
actual time it took Mr B to confirm that he wanted to go ahead with the transfers.The investigator suggested the ceding scheme shouldve sent the funds for both transfers to
Royal London on 29 June 2020. Adjusting that for the time actually taken for Royal London
to get the information back from the ceding scheme (about three weeks) and adding that to
the overall time would take the date by which the funds shouldve been sent to Royal London
to, say, 20 July 2020. I think thats fair and reasonable  Mr B initiated the transfer on 22
May 2020 and it shouldve been completed within two months or so.
Putting things right
That means Royal London will need to work out if Mr B has suffered any financial loss by
comparing what his fund is currently worth with what it wouldve been worth had Royal
London received the transfer values for both policies on 20 July 2020. The notional value
should take into account any investment switches and any sums paid out.
If the actual current fund value is higher than the notional value then theres no financial loss.
But if the notional fund value is higher then Mr B has suffered a financial loss. In that case
Royal London will need to pay the difference between the actual and the notional fund value.
If possible any redress should be paid into Mr Bs pension plan so as to bring the value up to
the notional value. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr B as a cash lump sum after making a notional reduction to
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr B hasnt yet taken any
tax free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been
taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  Id presume that Mr B will be a
basic taxpayer in retirement. So making a reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately
reflects this.
Royal London should provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
In response to my provisional decision Royal London said its understanding was that it had 
accepted the investigators view but the ceding scheme hadnt so a provisional decision 
requiring a loss assessment to be undertaken had been issued. Royal London said it 
accepted the findings.
Mr B also accepted my provisional decision. He said, on the basis hed have withdrawn the 
increased pension value from his plan but was unable to do so due to the delay, hed like the 
difference in fund value to be paid direct to him as a lump sum. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive set out in full above what I said in my provisional decision and it forms part of this 
decision. In the absence of any further substantive comments, arguments, evidence or 
information from either Mr B or Royal London, my views remain as indicated. For the 
reasons Ive given, Im upholding the complaint. 
Royal London must undertake a loss assessment as set out in my provisional decision and 
repeated above.  
In my provisional decision I said, if possible, any redress should be paid into Mr Ls pension 
plan but, if that wasnt possible a cash lump sum should be paid directly to him, on the basis 
I set out. Mr L has said that his preference is for a cash payment so Id ask Royal London to 
facilitate that if redress is due. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited must undertake a loss assessment as 
set out above and pay any redress due. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman