DRN-3552266
The complaint
Mr C complains about a loan provided to him by Bamboo Limited, (Bamboo), which he 
says was unaffordable. Mr Cs complaint has been brought to this service on his behalf by a 
claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by 
Mr C. 
What happened
Bamboo entered into an agreement for a loan for Mr C on 5 July 2017. The loan was for 
£3,000 and was repayable by 35 monthly payments of £170.18 and one monthly payment of 
£170.04. The interest rate was 54.19%, (69.9% APR). If Mr C made each repayment when it 
was due, the total amount payable was £6,126.34. The loan was for home improvements. 
The loan was repaid in April 2020. 
Mr C says that at the time of the loan, he had defaulted on a credit card account and was 
indebted with three further credit card accounts. In addition, just a week before his loan 
application, he had agreed to take out a similar high cost loan. Within 12 months after the 
loan, Mr C took out short term loans and guarantor loans to meet everyday spending. This 
additional borrowing was caused by the necessity to service Bamboos loan. Mr C said his 
credit score was poor because of Bamboos loan.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
checks Bamboo carried out demonstrated that Mr C would have been unlikely to be able to 
make his repayments sustainably.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to the investigators view by saying:-
 -It had received no evidence to substantiate the claim that Mr C was struggling financially
at the time of the loan. Mr C had excellent credit, with no missed payments showing within     
the last 12 months and no defaults, arrangements or County Court Judgements showing.
 - It referred to the investigator saying that there were signs that Mr C was in financial 
difficulty because he had nearly £13,000 of credit outstanding at the time and that much of 
this was recent borrowing. However, it said that:
a)Over £6,000 was on a hire purchase agreement for a motor vehicle.
b)Over £4,000 was on a single credit card, and whilst the credit card had been taken out 
only six months prior to the loan application, most of the balance had accrued over a short 
period of time, and then remained steady. This suggested that the card was initially used to 
make one big purchase, rather than to supplement day to day living costs. There were no 
missed payments recorded on the credit file for this card. 
c)Over £2,000 was on a single unsecured loan. It would not find it unusual for a consumer 
carrying out home improvements to have recently borrowed from other sources.
d)Mr Cs recent lending history didnt suggest that he was using credit to supplement his day 
to day living costs and so didnt suggest that he was experiencing financial difficulty.
 - All of Mr Cs commitments were taken into account in its affordability assessment and its 
loan was demonstrated to be affordable for Mr C with a good buffer to be able to afford his 
non-essential and any shock payments. It didnt consider that lending Mr C £3,000 would 
have caused him to be over indebted in any way.
 - Whilst it was unfortunate that Mr C was made redundant from his employment in            
August 2017, this wasnt something it could have foreseen.
 - After experiencing some further difficulty at the beginning of the loan due to a hospital stay 
and subsequently losing his job, Mr Cs financial situation appeared to stabilise. Mr C 
proceeded to bring the account back up to date and continued to manage the account well 
until he settled the loan early in April 2020. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C
and to Bamboo on 11 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when Bamboo lent to Mr C, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged Bamboo to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, 
this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner 
over the lifetime of the loan agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Bamboo had to think about whether Mr C 
could sustainably repay his loan. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on  
Mr C. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower would be required to make payments for an 
extended period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision? 
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Id noted that Bamboo gathered some information from Mr C about his net income and 
mortgage before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr C said his net monthly income was £2,000 and he contributed £250 a month to his 
mortgage. Bamboo said it had verified Mr Cs income using an income verification tool 
through a credit reference agency which drew on bank account data. And Bamboo used 
statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate Mr Cs likely living 
costs. Bamboo had also carried out credit checks.  
Mr C told Bamboo that he was married, and he was a homeowner. He had no dependents. 
Bamboo said that Mr Cs monthly credit commitments were £451, and his estimated monthly 
living costs were £408. Bamboo calculated that Mr C would have a monthly disposable 
income of £720.82 after its loan repayment. In its final response letter Bamboo concluded 
that Mr C had sufficient monthly disposable income to comfortably maintain its loan 
repayments and ensured that he was financially resilient against a financial shock such as 
an unexpected expense.
The lender provided this Service with its credit checks which Id reviewed. Mr C had nine 
active accounts and five accounts had been opened in the six months prior to the loan 
application. His total loan balance was £8,668 and his total revolving credit balance was 
£4,254. Id noted that Mr C had referred to contributing to a mortgage, but the checks didnt 
show any mortgage in his name. I also couldnt see any short term loans or defaulted 
accounts on the credit checks. Mr C referred to having taken out another high cost loan a 
week before his application to Bamboo, but this wasnt shown on Bamboos credit checks.
But the checks did show that Mr C had taken out two relatively recent loans. One loan was 
for £6,444 for hire purchase, taken out in April 2017. And hed taken out a loan for £2,363 
less than two months before his application. In addition, Mr C had taken out three credit 
cards around two months before his application. One of these had a balance of £198 near 
the credit limit of £200. But the other two had been barely used with only £6 spent on one of 
the cards. I could also see that Mr C had taken out another credit card around seven months 
prior to his loan application. The credit limit was £3,950 and Mr Cs balance had exceeded 
the credit limit in three of the previous four months. He also hadnt paid anything towards the 
balance two months prior to his loan application. 
Id also noted that Mr C didnt have an overdraft on his current account.Id also thought that Bamboo was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have 
revealed the full extent of Mr Cs credit commitments at the time of his loan application. The 
information wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Also, not all lenders 
reported to the same credit reference agencies. 
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. The checks suggested that Mr C 
had managed all but one of his credit commitments satisfactorily. But as most of the active 
accounts had been opened relatively recently, his credit repayment history for those 
accounts was brief. Altogether, I thought Bamboo might have been concerned as to why 
someone with such a large proportion of available income (according to its own calculations) 
would need to borrow expensive credit. Bamboo had calculated that Mr Cs disposable 
income each month was around £720.82 which I didnt consider to be consistent with the 
amount of recent debt he had, his overlimit credit card and the recent missed payment on 
that card, and the need to borrow a high cost loan. I thought all this might have suggested 
that Mr Cs finances were under pressure. And I thought they should have led Bamboo to 
conclude that it should have gathered some more information about Mr Cs finances.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr Cs 
living costs without verifying it. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances 
and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Cs living expenses. But I didnt 
think it was reasonable for Bamboo to think that Mr Cs circumstances fell within this average 
portfolio. Bamboos affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr C and I thought it should 
have been in his circumstances. Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with 
Bamboo. He would need to make monthly repayments of around £170 for 36 months. The 
loan wasnt being used for debt consolidation, so Mr Cs overall debt was being increased. 
Given the length of time Mr C was committing to repay the credit and what Bamboo would 
have likely seen on its credit checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for Bamboo to 
get a clear picture of Mr Cs finances at the time. I thought it would have been proportionate 
for Bamboo to independently check the true state of Mr Cs finances before agreeing the 
loan. 
Bamboo was required to establish whether Mr C could make his loan repayments without 
being caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the 
loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It 
could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr C, asking for 
copies of  bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information 
about his existing credit commitments. I couldnt see that Bamboo had taken steps to do this. 
But although I thought Bamboo should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Cs complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown Bamboo that Mr C 
couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, Id asked the investigator to ask Mr C for his 
bank statements from around the time of the loan, to see what additional checks would have 
shown the lender. 
I wasnt suggesting that this was the exact check that Bamboo should have carried out. But I 
thought that by looking at Mr Cs bank statements I could get a good idea of what further 
checks might have shown. 
What would further checks have shown? Despite our request for Mr Cs bank statements from around the time of the loan, we hadnt 
received copies of these. So, I hadnt been able to get a picture of what his financial situation 
was like at the time of his loan application. That meant I couldnt say that, if Bamboo had 
completed further checks, it wouldve found that the loan wasnt sustainable. So, based on 
the information Id seen, I wasnt able to conclude that Bamboo shouldnt have agreed to 
provide the loan to Mr C. Id said that if Mr C was able to provide us with the relevant copies 
of his bank statements, I would reconsider my decision. But subject to any further 
representations by Mr C or Bamboo, I didnt intend to say that Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr C hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr C and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman