The complaint
Mr H feels that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr H took out a fixed sum loan agreement in November 2009 for six months. He cancelled 
the direct debit for this agreement the day before the last instalment was due to be paid in 
2010. This failed payment incurred a £20 charge. Mr H paid the outstanding instalment later 
that month. However the £20 charge remained outstanding until 2019 and was reported as 
outstanding on Mr Hs credit file throughout. Mr H says he didnt know about this charge 
throughout this time. On applying for a mortgage in 2019 he was informed of this reporting 
and rang the business. It waived that charge, paid Mr H fifty pounds and said it would 
remove all adverse reporting from his credit file.
Mr H remains unhappy because it was on his file so long, that the business didnt tell him 
about it and because he thinks he has lost out through paying extra on credit throughout this 
period of time. So he complained.
Clydesdale initially felt it had treated the matter fairly. So Mr H complained here. Our 
investigator felt that Clydesdale hadnt done enough and said Clydesdale should pay a 
further £250 to the fifty pounds already paid. Clydesdale has accepted this. But Mr H doesnt 
think this is fair. So he wants more for the reasons Ive described. So this complaint comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of what Mr H says I shall now address the key issues of this matter as 
I see them.
Clydesdale has said that the £20 charge was applied fairly to the account and correctly 
reported on Mr Hs credit file. I can see from the statements that the instalment wasnt paid 
on the day it was meant to be. And I can see Mr H paid it later that month. Considering the 
evidence from the time available Im satisfied the £20 charge was correctly applied and was 
outstanding from 2010-2019. So in terms of the outstanding amount and the reporting Im 
satisfied that Clydesdale hasnt made a mistake.
DRN-1708798Between 2010 and 2019 the business changed its terms regarding payments not being paid 
on the day. The business has records to show it sent Mr H statements which showed this 
outstanding amount in 2011 and 2012. But it notes that the 2012 statement was returned to 
it marked gone away. It cannot find any other records of informing Mr H of this debt after 
2012. So considering these two matters it decided on the day Mr H contacted in 2019 to 
waive the £20 charge, amend the credit file and pay Mr H fifty pounds.
Mr H argues that he had other accounts with the business, and it should have done more to 
keep him informed. In response to this the business points to having other accounts with 
people with similar names. Im not persuaded by this. It is up to Clydesdale to manage its 
records properly. So I think it should have done more to provide Mr H with his statement 
showing the outstanding balance.
Having said that Mr H is required to monitor his accounts properly and also it is in his 
interests to monitor his credit file particularly when taking out credit. And he hasnt 
persuasively argued that the business mislead him about his account in June and July 2010.
Mr H points to losing out on the credit he took out over the years. However those 
agreements he made were based on terms he agreed. Mr H wasnt obliged to take out credit 
that was his choice and not Clydesdales. If he wants to complain about those instances of 
taking credit he should complain to those businesses who gave him the credit. It should be 
remembered throughout that businesses are obliged to report accurately and throughout Mr 
H did owe the £20. Furthermore these losses were losses of potential opportunity and not 
real actual financial losses. And it is clear from the report supplied that Mr H has secured 
credit repeatedly over time.  Mr H says whats happened has caused him to have poor 
credit. But as the report shows the business marked it as £20 outstanding (which was 
accurate). This did not prevent him securing credit generally it only impacted him regarding a 
mortgage where lending criteria are understandably stricter. So I dont think Mr H suffered 
financial loss or that this information on his credit file was incorrect.
Clydesdale has agreed to pay a further £200 for losses suffered and £50 for the mortgage 
being declined. Mr H says this is not enough. However Mr H accepts he didnt know about 
this reporting between 2010 and 2019. So I dont think this reporting distressed or 
inconvenienced him during this time. So in essence the time where Mr H was impacted by 
the reporting and the lack of information was from when this issue was discovered (12th 
August 2019) to when the reporting was amended as a result of the business decision taken 
by Clydesdale. This isnt a long period at all. However it was a period of stress and anxiety 
because Mr H was looking at mortgages. In his original complaint he says these issues 
delayed his remortgage plans by two months. In his call with our investigator on 31 March 
this year (which Ive listened to) Mr H refers to trying to find a new house at that time. Either 
way I think these are stressful times, but Im not persuaded Clydesdale need to compensate 
substantially here considering the facts of the case.
All in all Im satisfied that the current suggested settlement of Clydesdale paying Mr H a total 
of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Accordingly I direct it to pay this to Mr H 
on notification that Mr H accepts this decision. Mr H is at liberty to not accept this and pursue 
the matter elsewhere. However this decision brings to an end our investigation process into 
this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that the suggested settlement of 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited paying Mr H £250 further to the payment already 
made is a fair and reasonable settlement to the matter.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before 29 July 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman