DRN-4169670
The complaint
Mrs V complains about the way PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with a claim she 
sought to make in relation to a phone shed bought online from a third party seller S.
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs V bought a phone from S using credit provided by PayPal. In September 
she contacted PayPal and S to say that the phone was faulty and didnt meet the sale 
description. S suggested Mrs V get the phone fixed or replaced using the warranty supplied 
with the purchase. PayPal told Mrs V it was unable to assist saying the issue wasnt covered 
by its buyer protection policy.
Mrs V was unhappy with PayPals response. She said PayPal had previously told her shed 
get a refund. Mrs V reminded PayPal that the purchase was subject to the connected lender 
liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and asked it 
to look again at the information shed sent. PayPal says it asked Mrs V for further information 
to support her claim. After further attempts to engage PayPal with the claim, Mrs V felt it 
wasnt dealing with the matter appropriately and complained to us.
Our investigator was satisfied PayPal had dealt fairly with the claim under the buyer 
protection policy. After reviewing the sale description she concluded that the phone was not 
significantly not as described as required under the policy. The investigator noted that 
under section 75, Mrs V had a potential claim against S (and by extension, against PayPal) 
both in misrepresentation and in breach of contract. She wasnt persuaded that S had 
misrepresented the terms of the warranty to Mrs V. But she did think there were grounds 
under which a breach of contract claim might be successful.
The investigator noted the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applied to the transaction 
between Mrs V and S. That implied a satisfactory quality term into the contract between the 
parties. Mrs V had reported the faults with the phone within a reasonable period, and that 
made it incumbent on the supplier either to show the phone wasnt defective when it was 
supplied, or to take action to rectify the breach.
She suggested that Mrs V obtain a report establishing the likely cause of the phones faults 
and the cost of repair. If the report indicated a manufacturers fault, then PayPal should bear 
the cost of repair (and possible replacement, should that repair prove unsuccessful). In light 
of the difficulties Mrs V had experienced in getting PayPal to engage with her claim, our 
investigator proposed that PayPal also pay her £75 compensation.
PayPal accepted the investigators proposed settlement. But Mrs V felt the investigator 
hadnt had proper regard for her rights under the CRA. And she didnt think the £75 
proposed for her time and trouble went far enough. Shes asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious PayPals initial response to the complaint dealt only with the question of 
whether Mrs V could claim against S under its buyer protection policy. As a matter of good 
practice I would generally expect PayPal also to have considered any additional obligations 
or liabilities it might have faced, such as those arising under section 75 due to the fact it 
provided credit to find the purchase.
It did subsequently treat Mrs Vs claim as one made under section 75, though I think it could 
have done more to set out a response to that claim based on the information Mrs V 
submitted. While I appreciate it did log the claim, much of the time and trouble she 
experienced can be attributed to the approach PayPal took in asking for further evidence.
In my view, the information it already held about the purchase and the faults Mrs V asserted 
were sufficient for PayPal to have formed a response to her claim. With our investigators 
assistance it has now done so. But I can see why the investigator recommended 
compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience Mrs V was caused by this approach.
I dont consider the arguments Mrs V makes in terms of misrepresentation or misleading 
advertising by S are as clear-cut as her correspondence suggests. As our investigator set 
out in her assessment, there were some statements that indicated the phone was new and 
came with a full warranty. But there were also statements that the phone was open box, 
new and unused  which is consistent with the terminology used on the website Mrs V used 
to buy the phone  and that S would top-up the manufacturers warranty if less than 12 
months remained when purchased.
In such circumstances I cant fairly conclude Mrs V could properly be said to have entered 
into the purchase in reliance on the phone being brand new and having the full 
manufacturers warranty. She could rely on it having a 12-month warranty, as S had said it 
would top-up any warranty less than 12 months. But when Mrs V approached S to discuss 
the faults with the phone, it was still within the manufacturers warranty period. So whether or 
not the top-up was provided made no difference at that point.
Its correct to say that the CRA creates a rebuttable presumption as to the presence of faults 
reported within the first six months of ownership. But its also true to say that, had Mrs V 
returned the phone to S, it would have been entitled to have the faults diagnosed before 
being obliged to provide a repair or refund. It would also be entitled to attempt a repair 
before replacing or refunding the phone.
It's unclear to me why Mrs V didnt follow up Ss suggestion that she have the phone fixed or 
replaced by the manufacturer under warranty. That would have established the root cause of 
the faults with the phone and enabled her to get a replacement if it couldnt be repaired.
Having the phone looked at under the manufacturers warranty does not now appear to be 
an option, due to the passage of time. So the investigator proposed what she considered to 
be a suitable remedy, which is for Mrs V  who is in possession of the phone  to take it for 
fault diagnosis and for PayPal to cover the cost of repair unless it can be shown that the 
faults were down to reasons other than manufacturing defects.
Although Mrs V has objected to this, I see no reason to think that it presents an unfair 
resolution to the current problem, or that it places the burden of proof on her. Rather, it 
enables the cause of the faults to be established, which seems to me to be in the interests of 
all the parties concerned. The alternative is that Mrs V sends the phone to PayPal for it to 
take the same steps, which seems to me slightly more convoluted, risks the phone being lost 
or damaged in transit, and is therefore less suitable as a resolution.Putting things right
Having thought carefully about the time Mrs V spent in correspondence with PayPal I think 
its only fair that PayPal pays her compensation. I appreciate Mrs V feels she should receive 
more than the £75 our investigator proposed. However, Im satisfied its an appropriate sum 
to recognise her time and trouble.
I also consider it appropriate that PayPal has the opportunity to respond to the claim in line 
with the CRA, notably in terms of establishing the cause of the fault and in the remedy it 
provides if the contract has been breached. So on receipt of an independent third party 
report diagnosing the likely cause of the faults and the cost of any repair, PayPal should take 
the following steps:
reimburse the cost of the fault diagnosis report
subject to the report showing the faults should not be deemed to have been present 
at point of supply, cover the cost of repairing the phone (or replacing the phone, if 
PayPal so chooses)
If any such repair fails within a reasonable time period  for clarity, I specify a period 
of not less than two years  then PayPal should ensure it provides an appropriate 
alternative remedy in line with the CRA, which might include replacement or a 
refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, I direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to 
take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman