DRN-1725077
The complaint
Mr H complains that the amount he has been charged by JFS for fair usage of a car he has 
rejected is unfair.
What happened
Mr H acquired a car in September 2017 with the assistance of a hire purchase agreement. 
The car cost £33,558.79. Mr H paid a deposit of £3,500 with a manufacturer contribution of a 
further £1865. The rest was the subject of the finance agreement. Mr H experienced a 
number of problems with the cars entertainment system and several attempts were made to 
fix them. In August 2019 JFS agreed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and agreed 
that Mr H could reject the car.
The car was returned and JFS agreed to refund to Mr H his deposit together with 8% interest 
and the sum of £2970.80 plus 8% interest to represent the monthly payments he had made 
less a charge of £7,740 for fair usage. JFS calculated the fair usage charge at 45 pence per 
mile (ppm) for the 17,200 miles he had travelled. JFS also agreed to pay Mr H further 
amounts for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the fair usage charge and said that the figure of 20ppm would more 
accurately reflect the use he had of the car. Mr H referred his complaint to this service 
specifically in relation to the mileage charge.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They didnt think that JFS had done anything 
wrong. In their view they set out that this service looks at what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As Mr H had been able to use the car and had travelled £17,200 miles it was 
fair for a deduction for fair usage to be made. They explained that our approach depends on 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and we usually suggest that a business can 
retain a monthly instalment if a consumer has been able to travel 1000 miles within that 
month. They thought that JFS approach didnt disadvantage Mr H and so they couldnt ask it 
to do anything else.
Mr H didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the figures used by the investigator 
were random and didnt feel fair when looking at the repayments on his agreement. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that at the time Mr H rejected the car he had been in possession of it for nearly two 
years and had travelled 17,200 miles. The mileage allowance in his agreement was 30,000 
over the three years.
The only issue between Mr H and JFS is the amount charged for fair usage. Mr H agrees 
that JFS can make a charge but he doesnt agree that 45ppm is fair or reasonable as he 
believes this is too high and is the rate used by HMRC to reflect all associated costs such as 
maintenance and depreciation. Mr H explains that in his view a lower pence per mile cost is 
the objective and fair way to calculate fair use.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 states that a finance company is entitled to make a 
deduction for fair use. It doesnt set out what rate or method should be used. Mr Hs finance 
agreement doesnt set out what deductions can be made in the event of a rejection either. 
Our approach is to look at all of the circumstances and decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Usually we look at whether a consumer has had the benefit of a monthly 
instalment. In this case Mr H paid 23 instalments of £465.66 and covered 17,200 miles. Mr 
Hs agreement provided for 833 miles each month. On the basis of the miles travelled it 
could be argued that JFS could fairly retain 20 of the 23 repayments. This is more than it has 
offered.
I understand the points Mr H is making about what charges are rolled up within the monthly 
repayment and I do appreciate that it isnt only per mile travelled. But calculating fair usage 
isnt a science and there is no method set out in the guidance or the paperwork Mr H signed. 
I know this will likely be a disappointment to Mr H but Ive looked at what Black Horse has 
charged and overall I dont think it is unfair or that Mr H has been disadvantaged. Whatever 
the method of calculation I do think that the amount charged by Black Horse is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
16 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman