DRN-2927588
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC should have recognised more quickly 
that they wouldnt qualify for a mortgage and not put them through a prolonged process. 
They also feel that Barclays shouldnt have run a credit check on them
What happened
Mr and Mrs G applied for additional borrowing with Barclays. They say the mortgage 
application lasted three hours and they spent a further four hours collecting and providing 
documentation in support of the application. The application was unsuccessful because Mrs 
G had only two years tax history and not three. Mr and Mrs G cant understand why this 
issue wasnt identified at the start of the process and is concerned that the credit check 
performed might affect their ability to obtain a mortgage elsewhere.
Barclays says that the issue that prevented the application proceeding came to light during 
the application interview in November 2020 which was that Mrs G had a self-employment 
history of only two years and no employment preceded this time and so was ineligible for the 
further borrowing. Barclays confirmed it did a credit check but as the application didnt go to 
the underwriters the credit search wouldnt prevent an application with an alternative lender. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that there 
was no evidence that the credit check had negatively effected Mr and Mrs Gs credit file. Mr 
and Mrs G disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted that Mr and Mrs G brought this complaint in December last year presumably because 
the time period for the valuation of their house ran out in February and were concerned 
about losing time because they believed that Barclays could have raised the issue of liability 
sooner and also concerned of the impact of a credit search on a credit file. Barclays 
response to the first point is that the eligibility issue was identified whilst going through the 
application interview which is when that issue would have first been considered. I note that 
generally prior to such an interview the applicants will have to assemble a lot of information 
and spend time doing so. Thats how these applications work. But the interview, which is 
usually prolonged is also the proper place to consider issues such as eligibility and I cant 
fault Barclays for following its processes and identifying thee issue at that stage. My 
understanding is that the interview took place at the end of November and that would still 
have given Mr and Mrs G time to apply to another lender before the February deadline.
As regards the credit check. I note that these are a normal part of the interview process 
because if theres an issue with the credit file, that would generally affect the application 
proceeding. Mr and Mrs G were, however, concerned that this would have an adverse 
impact on their credit file as they were presumably about to make applications to other 
lenders. Barclays assured them quickly that it would not because the application failed on 
criteria eligibility rather than underwriters decline. So, Barclays evidence is that the credit 
search would have no negative impact on their credit file, and Ive received no evidence that 
would suggest otherwise.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Gs annoyance at the time spent on this unsuccessful 
application and concerns about the impact on the credit file of the credit search. But I cant 
fault Barclays for following their application process and I would have thought in any case Mr 
and Mrs G had sufficient time to source alternative lending. Ive no evidence that the credit 
file search affected their credit file negatively. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision,
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman