DRN-3031375
complaint
Miss C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) as part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), in June 2003.  
A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically included PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of 
the TMPP could be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
Im addressing the alleged mis-sale of the PPI here. Im sorry Miss C has had to wait a while 
for her complaint to reach this stage, however one of our adjudicators previously looked into 
the complaint and told her some time ago that they didnt think we should uphold it. Miss C 
was also told her case isnt affected by recent rules about the commission and profit share 
relating to the sale of PPI. 
Miss Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments they 
had previously made. I have also read Miss Cs own reply to the assessment and considered 
what she said with care.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Cs 
complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive also considered the issue of 
non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Halifax has no liability to pay Miss C 
anything back, as described previously by our adjudicator.
did Miss C consent to the PPI?
Id like to state at this point that I dont doubt Miss C honestly and genuinely believes now 
that the PPI was mis-sold to her. However, in my view, Im afraid I think the evidence and the 
circumstances of the sale point the other way.
Miss C implies she never consented to the PPI and didnt want it. She also said on her 
complaint questionnaire that she was given no details or documents about the policy and 
she was financially astute to a degree that she would never agree to such cover. And its 
unfortunate that Halifax has only limited information left to refer to. 
However, this in my experience, isnt unusual given when the sale was, as businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely, particularly when it refers to something which was 
closed so many years ago. Nevertheless, Halifax does have some computerised records 
which Ive carefully looked at and these tend to show there was a discussion about buying 
insurance when Miss C was talking to a mortgage adviser, back in 2003. Ive also seen a 
great many similar TMPP sales from this particular period, and I know quite a bit about how 
these normally took place as a consequence.
With this knowledge and experience  and what I know about Miss Cs circumstances  Im 
afraid I dont think her recollections of being given no paperwork can be correct. I say this 
because theres no dispute she was sold this type of cover and no dispute what she paid 
was a substantial amount for it each month. Indeed, the amount of cover Miss C bought far 
outstrips what we normally see in these situations, no doubt related to her high earnings and 
/ or borrowing at that time. So I find it implausible that the insurers, having set up cover like 
this, would fail to issue the relevant policy documents in the normal way. Again, my 
experience is that Miss C would have needed to agree to the cover being set up and a 
TMPP schedule would have been issued to her outlining which elements of the cover she 
had agreed to buy and the elements she hadnt. I think she would also have been sent or 
given details of the policy rules. We now know she bought the mortgage protection and life 
cover elements  and declined the CIC.
For the PPI to have been added in the way Miss C suggests would involve the policy being 
added without her consent; for the insurers to fail to send her any paperwork; and, for the 
cost to be taken from her bank account each month without her knowledge. I find this 
scenario unlikely.
The cost of the PPI was itself significant. As Ive said it was a large outlay, and being over 
£143 per month at 2003 prices, this would have been an obvious and visible outgoing from 
Miss Cs bank account. She would have needed to authorise this (and the life insurance 
premiums) leaving her bank account each month by way of a direct debit, or similar. 
So to me, all this suggests Miss C had given some thought as to whether she needed certain 
types of protection with her mortgage borrowing. And as she chose some parts of the cover 
(the PPI and life insurance), and not the CIC. I therefore think she set the policy up in a way 
that reflected her preferences of that time. 
My finding is that its much more likely she agreed to the policy and I think Halifax properly 
obtained her consent.
was the PPI suitable for Miss C?
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss C as part of an advised sale, so it needed to 
check that the PPI was right for her situation. Miss C implies she didnt need it, but I think it 
was suitable for her.
I say this because Miss C was eligible for the cover and whilst I agree she had a high salary, 
by definition, losing such a salary would present obvious challenges. I also agree she would have had some sickness protection through her job and that it would have been fairly good, 
but this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI was unsuitable. Her mortgage was secured 
against her home and the PPI would have paid out up to £2,371 per month for up to two 
years if successfully claimed on. This would have been in addition to any other means she 
already had and would no doubt have been of use. I also note two years is much longer than 
the sick pay Miss C would have enjoyed with her job. In short, having a good salary with 
certain benefits does not conflict with insuring oneself in these circumstances.
I also considered the monthly cost of the cover, which although relatively expensive to many 
people, I think would have been affordable for Miss C, given her salary. I therefore think the 
PPI she chose was suitable for her and recommending it to her wasnt unreasonable or 
wrong.
was Miss C told enough?
Its possible the information Halifax gave to Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it might 
have been. However, she herself refers to her financial acumen and experience and in my 
view, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from 
the information she was most likely given at the point of sale. Miss Cs health at the time, for 
example, doesnt seem to have been in conflict with any of the policy rules about pre-existing 
medical conditions. 
I think the rules of the time probably contained certain standards about claiming for 
conditions such as stress and back problems. But I have seen nothing indicating these 
things applied to Miss Cs situation of that time; in any event I dont think Miss C would have 
expected to claim for illnesses in the future without providing at least some evidence, which 
is what the rules said. So even if I accept Halifax could have explained the policy more fully, 
theres nothing suggesting this would have caused Miss C to act differently.
Miss Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be other general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim. Her representative also said she intended to retire at aged 60.
But Miss Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
And Miss C was substantially below the normal age of retirement at the point of sale so I see 
no relevance here.
I have thought about all these things and how they might apply in Miss Cs particular case. 
But these points are no more than general ones and dont persuade me to alter my 
conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Finally, I see Miss C thinks our adjudicators view is at odds with what her own 
representative has told her about the complaint. I obviously cant interpret what her 
representatives take on the matter is, but clearly they have implied the complaint should be 
upheld, whereas our adjudicator did not agree.
For the reasons Ive set out above I do not uphold the complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc, 
trading as Halifax, doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Miss C. 
Im very sorry to disappoint her.my final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award.
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman