DRN-3158870
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) have declined to refund her two 
payments (totalling £1,500) that were made on her credit card account. She says shes been 
the victim of a scam and wants Capital One to refund her.
What happened
Miss A has told our service that she was approached by an individual working for a company 
(who Ill refer to as B for the remainder of this decision) in the middle of March 2020 and 
was told they could help her build a better website for her business. They also told her that 
they could help her become more visible in search engine results which would ultimately 
help her to get work. Miss A has said she was initially told B would charge her £299.99 for 
this work. But later she was pressured into entering into an agreement for the website and 
ended up being charged £1,500  and she didnt receive the website she was promised by B 
either. As a result, Miss A believes she has been scammed by B.
Miss A contacted Capital One towards the end of March 2020 about the two payments. 
Capital One recorded the contact as a claim that the payments were fraudulent. They issued 
Miss A with a new card and account, as well as raising a claim under the chargeback 
process. This resulted in the payments being temporarily credited back to her account  
whilst the chargeback process was ongoing.
In May 2020, Capital One received a response to the chargeback. This included various 
documents from B which they felt showed the two payments werent fraudulent.
B provided the following information:
Documents showing two orders totalling £1,500 - all of which match up with Miss As 
personal details (including email address, phone number and company name).
A detailed breakdown of the services B had provided and which it continued to 
provide. This included a link to the website they had created for Miss A  which is still 
up and running.
An explanation for how Miss A wouldve signed the two agreements agreeing to the 
orders  which B feel wouldve meant she was fully aware of how much the services 
would cost and would have had time to consider the quotes put forward. 
Evidence of the IP address Miss A used to sign the agreements.
Evidence that the website created has been accessed by Miss A on more than 30 
occasions from the IP address used to sign the agreements to log in and upload 
further images to the website promoting her business. B feel this shows Miss A has 
been continuing to use the service they have provided.
Having reviewed this information, Capital One re-debited the two payments totalling £1,500. 
They also sent Miss A an email to confirm they didnt consider the payments to be fraudulent 
and the chargeback would not be considered further. 
Miss A raised a complaint about the outcome of the fraud claim. She told Capital One she 
felt B had scammed her and it had taken advantage of her vulnerabilities. She also repeated 
her belief she had been told the service would only cost £299.99 - and provided a 
screenshot of an advert from B which says they offered websites from £299.99.
Capital One provided their final response to Miss A in July 2020. They disagreed with Miss A 
that they were wrong to decline the fraud claim. They were satisfied the payments had been 
authorised by her and based on the information theyd received from B, they were also 
satisfied Miss A had requested, been provided with and used the service which she was now 
disputing i.e. the website. As a result, Capital One wouldnt pursue a fraud claim or 
chargeback dispute any further.
Unhappy with their response, Miss A brought her complaint to this service. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators who reached the conclusion that it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Capital One to refund the payments. She noted 
Capital One had gone through the chargeback process as shed expect them to do in this 
situation  but that the merchant had been able to successfully dispute the claim. And she 
agreed that it didnt appear that Miss A had been the victim of a scam either. This was 
because the evidence showed contractual agreements for work, signed by Miss A, which 
detailed the exact amounts which are now being disputed  not £299.99. Our investigator 
also highlighted a website had been made to Miss As requirements for her business and the 
website was still up and running as well as the other evidence to show Miss A appeared to 
have used the website on at least 30 occasions after the payments had left her account. 
As a result, our investigator concluded Miss A had been provided with the services she had 
paid for as stated in the signed agreements. And so, this was more likely to be a dispute 
between Miss A and B  rather than a scam. Our investigator was also satisfied the 
chargeback process had been correctly initiated and followed by Capital One. She did 
explain to Miss A that she may want to consider raising a section 75 claim with Capital One 
in order to establish if there has been a proven misrepresentation or breach of contract on 
the part of B. But as a section 75 claim is a different process, Miss A would need to raise this 
separately with Capital One.
Our investigator also addressed Miss As concerns that charges and fees had continued to 
be applied to her account since the disputed payments were made. She was satisfied the 
charges and fees had been applied fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Our investigator also encouraged Miss A to contact Capital One directly if she was 
struggling to make any contractual payments to discuss any other ways they could help in 
relation to this issue.
Miss A disagreed with our investigators view. As a result, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Miss A, Im not it for much 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Is this a scam?Firstly, Ive thought about whether there is enough evidence to satisfy me that Capital One 
shouldve raised a fraud complaint on behalf of Miss A. And in doing so Ive had to think 
about whether theres enough evidence to suggest Miss A has been the victim of a scam  
or whether this is a dispute between Miss A and B. Ive reviewed the information Miss A has 
provided, as well as the information Capital One were able to get from B when the 
chargeback claim was raised. And Im persuaded that Capital One has acted reasonably by 
not treating this as a scam.
Im satisfied the evidence that B responded with shows that Miss A was more likely than not 
provided with the services she requested. This includes the website which still exists. Ive 
also seen evidence that persuades me that Miss A frequently interacted with the website 
after the payments were made and therefore she is aware of its existence. This includes 
evidence provided by B that someone using the same IP address as Miss A has been 
uploading photos to this website. And so I dont think Capital One acted unreasonably by 
declining to pursue a fraud complaint. 
Ive then also considered what Miss A has said about being told she was only due to be 
charged £299.99 for the services provided. But I havent seen any documentation that 
persuades me this was the case. I do appreciate that shes said a lot of the conversations 
between her and B were done on the phone, and that she was put under a lot of pressure to 
sign the agreements straight away. However, from looking at the agreements which were 
sent to Miss A (and subsequently signed by her)  I do think they clearly set out the two 
amounts she would be paying (£900 and £600 respectively). These are the same amounts 
which have then been taken from Miss As Capital One account. I acknowledge that Miss A 
provided a screenshot of an advert from B referring to a price of £299.99. However, not only 
is it a generic advert and not a direct quote for any goods and services being provided 
specifically to Miss A, but it clearly says from £299.99. Therefore, Im satisfied Miss A 
wasnt guaranteed this price when she got in touch with B and that costs would be calculated 
based on the services provided. 
I accept its possible that Miss A may be unhappy with the level of services provided to her  
but this doesnt mean a scam has taken place. As a result, and for the reasons Ive set out, 
Im satisfied that Capital One has acted reasonable in treating this as a dispute between 
Miss A and B rather than a scam. 
What has Capital One done to assist Miss A?
Card providers, such as Capital One, can assist their customers if an allegation of fraud is 
raised by raising what is commonly referred to as a chargeback. The chargeback scheme is 
a way in which payment disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. They 
are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in certain circumstances, the 
chargeback process provides a way for the likes of Capital One to ask for payments made 
by a consumer to be refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer raises a 
dispute. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the 
right exists and there is some prospect of success. 
Ive considered if Capital One have acted reasonably when it came to the chargeback 
process here  and whether they ought to have continued further with this process after they 
received Bs response to it. 
On this occasion, Capital One raised the chargeback using the reason code relating to 
fraudulent activity. Considering Miss As initial explanation of what happened, I dont think this was unreasonable  especially as she has said (and continues to say) shes been 
scammed by B.
However, as Ive already mentioned, B were able to respond to the chargeback claim with 
evidence they feel shows they provided the services Miss A paid for.
Therefore, Im satisfied Capital One acted reasonably in choosing not to pursue the 
chargeback any further after B had defended the initial claim  especially considering there 
didnt appear to be any further evidence provided by Miss A to support her claim.
However, Miss A did also say that B told her the service would only cost £299.99. So, Ive 
thought about whether it mayve been appropriate for Capital One to raise a chargeback 
under a different reason code  such as incorrect amount. However, even if that was the 
case  I dont think it wouldve changed the outcome based on the response already 
provided by B.
This is because, as Ive already mentioned above, B responded to provide signed 
agreements which show the amounts Miss A was charged (£900 and £600) were linked to 
the services it had been able to show it had provided. I do appreciate Miss A has said she 
was verbally told the cost was less than this. I also understand that shes said she was 
pressured into signing these agreements and that she was taken advantage of. But for the 
purposes of a chargeback (and the very select reason code needed to raise one), Im 
satisfied this allegation wouldnt have meant a chargeback under incorrect amount wouldve 
been successful either  especially without further documentary evidence supporting Miss A 
was told shed only need to pay £299.99. 
For the reasons set out above, Im persuaded Capital One reasonably fulfilled their 
obligations when responding to the claim on this occasion. And from the evidence B were 
able to provide, I agree with our investigator that Capital One didnt need to pursue a fraud 
complaint given there was insufficient evidence to show a scam had taken place.
Finally, Ive looked at Miss As concerns regarding Capital One applying fees to her account 
as the disputed payments now form part of her outstanding balance.  Miss A appears to be 
referring to charges for missing contractual payments on the account. I understand that Miss 
A feels she shouldnt be liable for the £1,500 worth of payments  however, this doesnt 
mean that Capital One have incorrectly applied the charges and Im satisfied they were 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Ive looked at the agreement 
Miss A signed when she opened the account and it sets out that charges can be applied to 
the account in certain scenarios. One example is when theres been a failure to pay at the 
least the minimum monthly payment on the account  which is what appears to have 
happened here. And given Im satisfied (for the reasons already set out) that Capital One 
isnt required to refund the £1,500 worth of payments  I cant say the additional charges 
have been applied unfairly either. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman