DRN-4038752
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about how MBNA Limited dealt with her request for money back. 
What happened
Mrs M says she paid £170 for fast passes for a theme park in June 2021 using her MBNA 
credit card. When attending the park in September 2021, she says the passes were often 
ignored, and she was left waiting in long queues. She says she contacted MBNA to raise a 
dispute and she complained about the way it handled things. From what Ive seen, the 
dispute Mrs M originally raised with MBNA in 2021 about the theme park relates to a 
discount code that wasnt applied towards her tickets. MBNAs records indicate it didnt 
receive the claim about the fast passes until 2022.
MBNA sent a final response to Mrs Ms complaint on 1 August 2022. It acknowledged the 
claim it received from her against the merchant in 2021 (about the discount) and that it 
requested further information from her including:
A detailed description of the goods/service purchased.
The expected date of use of the tickets.
A copy of invoice, receipt or terms and conditions.
Copies of correspondence with the merchant.
A copy of her cancellation and refund request. 
MBNA says it didnt receive a response to its information request and so when it was 
contacted again in 2022, it was too late to raise a chargeback because it had been brought 
out of time. It said it couldnt consider a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 because the individual passes cost under £100 (Mrs M bought more than one). 
Therefore, the claim didnt meet the financial limits required for a section 75 claim to be 
considered. It also said it thought the claim relating to the discount had been resolved 
because Mrs M received £78 from the theme park. 
Mrs M didnt agree and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought the 
chargeback hadnt been raised in time, and that MBNA acted fairly by declining to raise a 
chargeback. And due to the financial limits that apply to section 75 she thought MBNA acted 
fairly by declining to proceed with a claim. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She says she provided what MBNA asked for within days of it asking. 
Our investigator asked Mrs M to supply evidence, but she wasnt able to send anything 
further in. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
the complaint quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Mrs M and MBNA that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
Im considering whether MBNA has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mrs Ms 
request for getting her money back. I have to think about the specific card situations that are 
available. In situations like this, MBNA can consider raising a chargeback or assessing a 
claim under section 75. 
Section 75 is a statutory protection that enables Mrs M to make a like claim against MBNA 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it had with her for the provision of goods or services. But there are certain 
conditions that need to be met in order for section 75 to apply.
One of those conditions is that section 75 doesnt apply to a claim so far as the claim relates 
to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or 
more than £30,000. In this case as the individual passes cost less than £100, section 75 
doesnt apply.
Ive next thought about chargeback. Chargeback isnt a legal right or a guaranteed way of 
getting a refund. The rules are set out by the particular card scheme. There wasnt a 
requirement for MBNA to raise a chargeback, but if there was a reasonable prospect of 
success, Id consider it good practice for it to have done so.
The time limits for requesting a chargeback are set out in the relevant card scheme rules. In 
this case, the rules say the dispute must be processed within 120 days of the payment or the 
date Mrs M received the service, if later. It looks like Mrs M received the service on 
1 September 2021, so she had until 30 December 2021 for the dispute to be processed.  
Theres a lack of evidence here. The evidence Ive seen is that Mrs Ms initial dispute was 
about a discount code not being applied. MBNA has said it thought this initial dispute was 
resolved when the merchant refunded her £78. The complaint that was brought to our 
service was about the fast passes being inadequate. 
Without evidence to demonstrate Mrs M raised a claim relating to the fast passes within the 
relevant timescales Ive set out above, I dont have the grounds to say MBNA acted unfairly. 
When it received the claim about the fast passes in 2022 it was out of time. So I dont think it 
acted unfairly in 2022. 
Moreover, Im conscious that Mrs M has not been able to show she supplied the required 
evidence to support the chargeback. So even if MBNAs evidence is wrong, and that Mrs M 
did raise the dispute in 2021 about the fast passes, I still dont have sufficient evidence to 
show MBNA acted unfairly by not processing the chargeback. Therefore, Im not making any 
directions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman