DRN-3428294
The complaint
Mr J complains that UK Insurance Limited wont remove his payment details from its records.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr J phoned UKI to renew his breakdown cover. He asked for the details of the 
debit card hed used to pay his premium to be removed from UKIs systems, but UKI said it 
wasnt able to do so. Mr J was also unhappy to discover that UKI had retained the debit card 
details hed provided the year before. So, he raised a complaint with UKI.
UKI said it had listened to Mr Js call from September 2020. It said Mr J had requested that 
his card not be used for automatic renewal, which was different to asking for the details to be 
removed from the system. It said that card details are saved on its system in case a refund is 
required. It told Mr J that it wasnt able to see his full card details at renewal, only the last 
four digits on the card.
The representative from UKIs customer relations team said they had sent a request to its 
data rights team to remove the payment details from UKIs system and this could take up to 
30 days. However, Mr J later received an email from UKIs data rights team which said it 
hadnt erased any of Mr Js payment data because UKIs policy was to retain this information 
for six years. It said that access to his data was highly restricted and safeguarding protocols 
were very robust to ensure the security of Mr Js data.
Mr J asked our service to look into his complaint. Our investigator looked into Mr Js 
concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that UKI had 
acted in line with its privacy notice. He didnt think it had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view. He said he couldnt see any rationale for UKI 
needing to retain his bank details. He questioned what would have happened if hed made 
payment by a different method. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr J strongly believes that UKI doesnt have a need to retain his bank details and hes made 
several points about this. Hes referred to his right to erasure under the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Mr J says that, according to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), everyone has the 
absolute right to have their data deleted and that any organisation which holds data about a 
data subject must delete all data when asked to do so. But Mr J appears to have misread or 
misunderstood what the ICO says.
Under the UK GDPR individuals have the right to have personal data erased, but this right is 
not absolute and only applies in certain circumstances. Theres further information about this 
on the ICOs website.
UKI says it is entitled to hold Mr Js information for a period of six years and has referred to 
its privacy notice which says:
As a general rule, we will keep (your personal information) for 6 years from the end of your 
relationship with us, as it is likely we will need the information for regulatory reasons, fraud 
prevention, or to defend a claim.
I appreciate that Mr J believes that UKI doesnt have a need to retain his bank details. But 
its not our services role to decide whether or not UKIs policies or procedures comply with 
data protection laws. Thats the role of the ICO. What Ive needed to consider is whether or 
not UKI has treated Mr J fairly, in line with the policies and procedures it has in place. And 
Im satisfied that it has.
Mr J has suggested our service should be on the side of the consumer, but thats not correct. 
Our service is impartial. We have the power to direct a business to put things right if theyve 
done something wrong. I do appreciate Mr Js concerns about his bank details being at risk 
from potential fraudsters in the event of UKIs computer systems being hacked. But I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that UKI has failed to store Mr Js details securely or that hes 
lost out as a result of anything UKI may or may not have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman