DRN-4214149
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc following a 
claim on their home insurance policy.
Much of this complaint relates to the actions of AXAs appointed contractors. As AXA accept 
they are responsible for the actions of their appointed agents, for the purposes of my 
decision, any reference to AXA should be interpreted as also covering the actions of their 
agents. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr and Mrs S and AXA. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their home insurance policy after an escape of water in 
March 2020 caused damage to their property. Mr and Mrs S raised a number of complaints 
during the course of their claim about how the claim was progressing and the settlement 
offered. 
In March 2023, Mr and Mrs S referred a complaint to our Service. Our Investigator explained 
that we could only consider some elements of the complaint. This was because the earlier 
complaints had been referred to our Service outside of the 6 months in which Mr and Mrs S 
had to refer them. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint that had been referred in time and didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. As Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the Investigators assessment, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
The scope of my decision
As explained by our Investigator, much of what Mr and Mrs S have complained about was 
referred to our Service outside of the time limits that must apply. My decision can only 
consider those matters covered by the final response letter dated 4 October 2022. In 
summary, that response addressed the full and final cash settlement offered (£23,495.57) 
and compensation for some of the issues experienced by Mr and Mrs S whilst the claim was 
ongoing.
Have AXA fairly considered and responded to this claim, in line with the policy terms?
The main elements of the dispute that our Service can consider revolve around the value of 
the cash settlement offered by AXA. 
In their final response letter from October 2022, AXA offered £23,495.57. Mr and Mrs S felt 
this fell far short of their expectations and their own quotes - of around £48,000 and 
additional flooring costs of around £12,000, for the remaining works. As the issue of the 
flooring falls under an earlier final response letter that our Service cant consider due to the 
time limits that apply - I wont comment on it further.  
Under the terms of this policy, AXA can offer cash settlement. Ive then considered AXAs 
reasons for choosing this option. AXA said: 
Given that the relationship between Mr S [full surname redacted by Ombudsman] 
and [AXAs agent redacted by Ombudsman] has deteriorated so badly and due to the 
abuse, we and our Suppliers are receiving over this matter, we feel the only way to 
resolve this is the offer of cash settlement.
Whilst it is often preferable for an insurer to arrange the repairs or remedial works that need 
to take place, given the combination of how long this claim had been going on for, Mr and 
Mrs S unhappiness at the standard of work carried out by AXAs appointed contractors 
alongside the general breakdown in the business relationship between Mr and Mrs S and 
AXA - I find it was reasonable of AXA to offer a cash settlement. 
Ive carefully considered the quotes that Mr and Mrs S provided. In my opinion, they arent 
directly comparable with the remaining scope of works provided by AXA. I wont draw out 
line by line comparisons, but as our Investigator has pointed out, there are relatively large 
costs without it being clear what they actually relate to. Having considered the evidence, on 
balance Im satisfied that AXA have acted reasonably when offering the cash settlement and 
no sufficiently persuasive evidence has been provided that would lead me to conclude, on 
balance, that the amount offered is unfair. 
Other points raised by Mr and Mrs S
As explained, I cant consider much of what Mr and Mrs S want our Service to make findings 
on.
I note that Mr S has said a disturbance allowance should have been paid until all the works 
had been completed - as the kitchen was not usable, as well as the ground floor. This was 
not part of the complaint referred to our Service, but AXA consented to it being considered 
as part of this complaint. 
AXA have said:
We identified that during the programme of repairs the ground floor would be 
inaccessible whilst the flooring was being laid, and again when it was sealed / 
polished. We discussed the options available to Mr & Mrs S [name redacted by 
Ombudsman] and it was agreed that they would try and remain in the property and 
accept £40 Disturbance Allowance payments whilst they could not access the 
kitchen.
My decision will only be considering the disturbance allowance and not any issue with 
whether or not alternative accommodation was offered. AXA have already paid Mr and Mrs S over £1,100 for disturbance allowance. I find that fair 
and reasonable. As our Investigator has explained, the disturbance allowance paid per day 
was far in excess of the industry standard.
Its clear that the repair works didnt go as smoothly as either party would have liked. An 
email sent on behalf of Mr S dated 22 February 2022 refers to various snagging issues in the 
property. For example, specifically in relation to the kitchen:
Gaps from skirting to floor to be rectify
Caulk cut out and re done above skirtings and round door frames
Patchy walls to be re painted
Door to be oiled
Door frame to be rub down and re painted
Surface medic to repair kitchen panel
Whilst its to be expected that a certain level of inconvenience will have been experienced by 
Mr and Mrs S, Im not persuaded based on the evidence provided that the kitchen or 
downstairs were unusable to the extent that the disturbance allowance should be paid either 
for a longer period of time or the whole duration of the repair works. 
I find that overall, the compensation AXA have previously offered Mr and Mrs S (£1975) to 
be fair, reasonable and appropriate. Some of this compensation is related to complaints that 
my decision wont be addressing, but Ive taken a holistic view of what has happened (as this 
amount has been referenced in the final response letter for this complaint) when considering 
if AXA need to do anything further. 
My decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute between Mr and Mrs S and AXA. I note Mr S has 
made various references to pursuing legal action against AXA. 
Whilst I cant offer Mr S legal advice, he should consider whether he wishes to accept or 
reject my final decision before deciding his next steps. More information can be found here 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/who-we-are/make-decisions In particular, the text 
Ive highlighted in bold below: 
.You will then be asked to confirm by a specified date whether you accept or reject 
it. If you accept the ombudsman's final decision in the specified timeframe, the 
business has to do what the ombudsman has told them to do  it will be binding on 
the business. This might, for example, include making the business pay you 
compensation. And, if you accept the final decision, it is unlikely you will be able 
to pursue the business in court for the same complaint. 
If you don't want to accept the ombudsman's decision, you don't have to. But it does 
mean our involvement has come to an end and the business doesn't need to do 
anything. You may still be able to take legal action against the business, but we won't 
be involved in this. And, if we don't hear from you within the specified timeframe, then 
in most cases you will be treated as having rejected the decision and it will not be 
binding on the business.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman