DRN-4021171
The complaint
G, a limited company, J a partnership and Mr P, complain AXA Insurance UK Plc has 
unfairly declined a claim on its farm and estate insurance policy.
For ease I will refer to the complainant as G throughout this decision, including actions of its 
broker. Any reference to AXA also includes its agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In March 2022, several of Gs pregnant ewes strayed into a field containing sugar 
beet. The ewes ingested the sugar beet leaves which appears unfortunately to have 
led to the death of the ewes. 
A claim was submitted to AXA for fatal injury to livestock due to the ewes straying 
and the vet had confirmed the deaths of 18 ewes was due to a rapid intake of fodder 
beet in ewes that are heavily pregnant and metabolically strained, will predispose to 
hypocalcaemia due to the sudden diet change and acidosis due to a rapid decrease 
in rumen ph., caused by ingestion of fermentable energy source from fodder beet.
AXA declined the claim as it said the claim falls outside the scope of cover as the 
policy does not include any own premises cover and as the ewes strayed into a field 
owned by G and ingested the beet on the insureds own land the claim wasnt 
accepted. 
G disagreed with AXAs decision. It questioned the wording of the policy and said 
that the ewes strayed from the premises onto common land after being on Gs beet 
field. G argues that the evidence suggests that the sheep had eaten beets, but they 
would have also consumed all manner of crops on the common land and so it isnt 
certain which crop caused the death. G had since found a further six ewes in 
woodland that had died.
G referred back to the vet who said that any sudden change in diet can cause 
metabolic disease and death in some cases. So, G suggests that as the livestock 
strayed in this incident and the cause of death is likely to be the ingestion of a 
variation of things both on and off their own land, this incident should be covered 
under the policy.
AXA argued the evidence suggests that the ingestion of a field of beets is the most 
probable cause of death and this happened on land owned by G. The vet didnt 
attend, so could not have possibly identified any foreign cause of the death thats 
been picked up away from the premises either. It said even if it accepted that during 
the straying away from premises, some of the sheep may well have ingested 
something foreign to their diet; ultimately, they most probably ingested the beets too, 
which isnt covered.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt AXA had fairly declined the 
claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
G didnt agree, it says the vet didnt realise at the time that the sheep had moved on 
through the beet field, so she had presumed that is where they stayed. The vet later 
said that any change in diet could lead to the death but as no post-mortem or gut 
contents were tested, she cant be sure what they ate. G also argued that the sheep 
strayed by going through a footpath gate onto common land then onto the field of 
beet so feel they have evidenced that the sheep strayed.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to G, but Ill explain why.
Ive considered what the policy covers under Section 2- Material Damage the perils insured 
are;
Fatal injury to Livestock caused by any violent external and visible accident including 
poisoning to the Livestock or in its necessary slaughter (under certificate by a duly 
qualified veterinary surgeon) but only to the extent of the market value of the animal at 
the time whilst
1) on any public thoroughfare
2) on any public livestock auction or sale-yard, market or agricultural showground 
premises
3) on any railway level crossing
4) or while straying from any such situation or from the Premises  
but excluding
1) straying unless reasonable fencing was provided for its safety
2) in transit for hire or reward
3) injury to any horse occurring during or whilst preparing for racing, hunting, show 
jumping, gymkhanas or other competitive events
4)the Excess stated in Your Schedule
Premises is defined in the policy as; Any location within the Territorial Limits owned used 
or occupied by You for the purposes of the Business
For the policy to pay out for the fatal injury it has to have occurred in the circumstances 
listed in the terms and conditions of the policy and as Ive highlighted above. I can empathise 
that G feels the policy should cover it as the sheep strayed from the premises by going 
through the gate onto common land and then on to the beet field and it says that they 
strayed further after going through the beet field. But what is key here is the likely cause of 
death  fatal injury. 
From the evidence Ive seen the cause of death was initially notified to the insurer as the 
sheep appear to have eaten a lot of sugar beet leaves. Following this the claim form 
completed by G says cause of death Rumen Acidosis and Hypoalcaemia due to ingesting 
large quantities of sugar beet tops 
The final clarification came from the vet report completed at the end of March 2022 which 
said In March at around 3 weeks pre lambing, a large proportion of the flock had been able 
to get out of their secured field and into a field of fodder beet. They were on the fodder beet 
for approximately 24 hours and during that time they had gorged on a large proportion of 
the crop. And further goes on to say:
A rapid intake of fodder beet in ewes that are heavily pregnant and metabolically strained 
will predispose to hypocalcaemia due to the sudden diet change and acidosis due to a rapid 
decrease in rumen ph caused by ingestion of a fermentable energy source from fodder 
beet.  
Im persuaded from this evidence that the most likely cause of death was the ingestion of the 
sugar beet tops. I appreciate at later dates G have given more accounts of what happened, 
but Im satisfied that the initial reports are more likely to capture the event as it was fresh at 
time of reporting and isnt swayed by any latter events. 
It isnt disputed that the beet crop is on Gs premises and as this is the most likely cause of 
the fatal injury, Im satisfied the policy doesnt cover it. Ive seen no evidence that straying 
onto common land caused the death of the ewes or at the very least, this has not persuaded 
me that the ingestion of sugar beet tops was not the main cause of death. I therefore wont 
be asking AXA to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J and G and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman