DRN-3040582
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, took too long to 
investigate a claim she made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the problems Miss T had with her holiday booking and I can 
understand the distress the situation has caused her at a time when money was hard to 
come by. So I know my decision will disappoint Miss T but Im afraid I agree with the 
investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme or a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)
I understand that Miss T accepts Barclaycards explanation about why they couldnt consider 
a section 75 claim in these circumstances but for clarity, Ill explain.
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them. So, section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed they would have more 
leverage over the merchant to resolve the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
But for the creditor, Barclaycard in this case, to have that liability it needs to have a 
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here it hasnt, as the payment was made to 
an e-money provider who Ill call A and not to the holiday provider.
So, the requisite link required for a section 75 claim, between the debtor, the creditor 
(Barclaycard) and the supplier (the holiday provider) has been broken and Miss T therefore 
has no claim under section 75. 
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Barclaycard but by Visa and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
I dont think it would be fair to suggest Barclaycard should have told Miss T her chargeback 
claim wouldnt succeed before they raised it with Visa as it was for Visa to decide that and 
not Barclaycard.
And, as time limits apply within which chargebacks must be raised, it made sense for 
Barclaycard to do this first before considering the section 75 claim which didnt have the 
same restrictions.
There were some delays and Barclaycard did make a small compensation payment in 
relation to these and removed some interest from the balance of the account as a result.
In the circumstances I think they did enough and whilst I have sympathy with the situation 
Miss T finds herself in I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Barclaycard to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman