DRN-4123541
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled the automatic 
renewal of their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a home insurance policy with Ageas. This was paid for with a one-off 
annual payment and automatically renewed each year. Mr and Mrs M registered for an 
online account.
In March 2022 Ageas sent an email to Mr M advising that the policy was due to renew 
automatically on 29 March 2022 using the card details it held for him. This letter was also 
added to the online account. 
Around this time Mr Ms credit card was used fraudulently and so his bank cancelled it and 
issued him with a new one. This meant that Ageas was unable to take payment for the policy 
as it only held details for the cancelled card.
Ageas emailed Mr M on 26 March 2022 advising that it had been unable to take payment for 
renewal but that it had renewed the policy for seven days to allow time for Mr M to contact it 
and update the payment details. It warned that the policy would be cancelled if payment 
wasnt received. It also attached a copy of the renewal letter and documents which gave 
details of the payment card and advice about what to do if payment details needed to be 
changed. The emails and documents were also added to the online account.
Ageas didnt hear from Mr or Mrs M and the policy lapsed on 12 April 2022.
On 27 April 2022 Ageas sent an email advising that the policy had been cancelled. This was 
received by Mr and Mrs M whilst they were on holiday. Mr M contacted Ageas and was told 
that it wasnt possible to re-instate the original policy but offered at new policy at an 
increased price. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Ageas that they hadnt been aware that the policy was 
cancelled until 27 April 2022 and that Ageas should have made greater effort to contact 
them. Ageas didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said that as it was unable to renew 
the policy automatically, it emailed Mr M to advise that it couldnt take payment. It then 
renewed the policy to allow time for the payment details to be amended. When this didnt 
happen the policy lapsed, and Mr and Mrs M were informed.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. They also raised issues regarding the 
original renewal quote and the terms of their new policy. Our investigator didnt think that 
these issues were part of the complaint to Ageas. He also thought that Ageas had taken 
reasonable steps to notify Mr and Mrs M that their policy couldnt automatically renew and 
that it had lapsed. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but Ill explain why.
Mr M says that he doesnt recall seeing the email of 26 March 2022 telling him that Ageas 
couldnt take payment. In this email, Mr and Mrs M were told that the policy would be 
renewed without payment for seven days to allow time for Mr and Mrs M to contact Ageas 
and provide alternative payment details. I note that the policy was actually extended for a 
further seven days to 12 April 2022. Mr and Mrs M were warned in the email that if payment 
wasnt received the policy would lapse. This information was also made available on the 
online account that Mr and Mrs M had signed up to.
Ive seen a copy of the email of 26 March 2022, and Im satisfied that it was sent to Mr M at 
the same email address that was used previously. Ive also listened to the call Mr M made to 
Ageas on 27 April 2022 when he found out the policy was cancelled. During that call he 
accepts that the email was received but says that he missed it. Im therefore satisfied that 
Ageas did enough to inform Mr and Mrs M that the policy would lapse if payment wasnt 
received.
Mr and Mrs M say that Ageas should have made greater effort to contact them and by other 
means as well as email, such as post or telephone. However, as previous communication 
had been via email and through the online account with no issues, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for contact to continue to be made in this way. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs M wouldnt necessarily be checking regularly for updates on their online account, the 
policy was up for renewal and the information was available there for them to view.
We would usually expect a business to send more than one letter or email warning of the 
policy lapsing, although this could include one to say the policy was lapsing and one to say it 
had lapsed. Im satisfied that Ageas did this as it sent a further email on 27 April 2022. I 
appreciate that this could have been sent sooner, but I think Ageas did enough to inform Mr 
and Mrs M that the policy had lapsed. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M found themselves without insurance whilst they were on 
holiday and that this must have been very worrying for them. However, I dont think that 
Ageas has done anything wrong and Im not upholding the complaint.
This service can only look at complaints after theyve been raised with a business and the 
business has had time to respond. Mr and Mrs M accept that the new policy terms werent 
raised with Ageas, but say their complaint was about the original renewal quote not being 
honoured when they took out the new policy. Ageas say that this wasnt part of the complaint 
and I note that it wasnt referred to in Ageass written response. The complaint was made 
during the call of 27 April 2022 which Ive listened to, and Im satisfied that the renewal quote 
wasnt raised as part of the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I can only 
consider the specific points complained about to Ageas. If Mr and Mrs M wish to pursue this, 
they can make a further complaint to Ageas. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman