DRN-1621537
The complaint
Ms M complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) mis-sold her a buildings 
insurance policy as it didnt properly explain the legal expenses option.
What happened
Ms M had a buildings insurance policy with a well-known high-street retailer. The policy was 
underwritten by RSA and its responsible for complaints about the policy so Ill refer to it 
throughout.
Ms M took the policy out in 2016. In 2017, before the policy was due to renew, RSA sent her 
renewal information about its offer for the next years insurance. Ms M phoned RSA to 
discuss this.
During the call, she enquired about various additional add-on cover options that she hadnt 
opted for. RSA provided the details. Ms M decided to renew the policy on the terms offered 
by RSA without any additional add-ons.
Sometime later, she was involved in a dispute with her neighbour. She had to seek her local 
councils help to resolve the dispute. She thought that if shed taken the legal expenses 
cover she would have been able to resolve the issue more quickly. Prompted by this, she 
contacted RSA to add this cover to her policy in September 2018.
In 2019, it became clear the issue with her neighbour wasnt resolved. So, Ms M got in 
contact with RSA to see if she could make a claim. But RSA told her she couldnt as the 
problem started before she took out the legal expenses cover.
She said that if RSA had explained the cover more clearly when she renewed the policy in 
2017, she would have taken it out then. She also said the information she held about the 
policy didnt explain the cover in sufficient detail. And because of this, she said it had mis-
sold her the policy and she made a complaint.
RSA said it had explained the cover options during the phone call and it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It also said the details of the cover had been provided previously and, 
together with the renewal confirmation, provided the detail Ms M needed. Ms M disagreed 
and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence supplied by both parties and concluded that RSA 
hadnt mis-sold the policy and so she didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Ms M didnt agree with this and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I know Ms M is 
likely to be disappointed by my decision. Id like to explain my reasoning.
Ms M has strong views about the level of information she says RSA should have given her 
when discussing legal expenses cover. She says it should have provided her with proper 
guidance on what could go wrong when youre a property owner. And the benefits of whats 
included and the risks of whats excluded under the policy. 
Im mindful that this was a non-advised sale  in other words, RSA was only providing 
factual data to Ms M to allow her to make a decision. It wasnt providing a personal 
recommendation that the policy was the right one for her, like she might have received if 
shed purchased the policy through an insurance broker. And because of this, the 
expectations of what RSA should have done are different. So, what I need to decide here is 
whether RSA has done what its required to do, rather than what Ms M thinks it should have 
done while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) explains whats required of an insurance company in this situation. And thats for it 
to provide information which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The call with RSA in 2017
Ive listened carefully to the call Ms M had with RSA in 2017 when she renewed her policy. It 
was clear from the call, Ms M knew she didnt have legal expenses cover  or a number of 
other add-ons.
She asked what legal expenses cover was. RSAs representative explained this cover would 
help in the case of personal injury, employment, tax or residential issues. He went on to say 
it would provide cover if Ms M were to take legal action against someone else in connection 
with one of these things.
Ms M then asked another question about a theoretical situation involving an electrician 
causing damage to her property. The representative explained if she wanted to personally 
take legal action against the electrician, then she would need the legal expenses cover for it 
to be covered by RSA.
Ms M then moved on and asked a number of questions about other various aspects of 
cover. RSA answered each of her questions. Ms M was happy with what the representative 
told her and said she wanted to renew the policy. She didnt ask to add any additional cover.
The cause of Ms Ms complaint is that she wanted to take legal action against someone in 
connection with her residence. Given that this scenario was covered  as described above - 
during her conversations with RSA, and it made it clear she would need legal expenses 
cover to do this, Im satisfied it provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
And while Ms M thinks it should have done more, Im satisfied its fulfilled the obligation laid 
out in ICOBS.
The documentation
RSAs representative explained he wouldnt send out new documents as Ms M hadnt 
changed anything on her policy and confirmed the renewal schedule would be the 
paperwork going forward. He checked if she was happy with this and she confirmed she 
was.Its clear Ms M still had a copy of the policy documents from the previous year as she has 
supplied some of the pages as part of her evidence on this case. She doesnt think the 
wording in the documents goes into enough detail and it should provide some specific 
examples of issues related to residential claims. Its not possible for insurance companies to 
list all the incidences and circumstances that consumers might encounter that are  and 
arent - covered under a policy. And neither are they expected to.
The policy wording explains what legal expenses cover is for, and specifically how it relates 
to residential issues:
1. The cost of you taking legal proceedings against another person or organisation as a 
result of:
a.A person or organisation interfering with your legal rights relating to your home
This to me, seems to adequately describe the situation Ms M found herself in. So Im not 
persuaded the documents didnt provide enough detail for her to decide if legal expenses 
was right for her.
Overall, Im satisfied RSA provided Ms M with information about the legal expenses cover 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. It was her decision not to take this cover and, I know, 
with the benefit of hindsight, this was a decision she regretted but that doesnt mean RSA 
mis-sold her the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman