DRN-1682113
 
The complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which Mr G took out when he opened a credit card 
account in 1997. Mr G applied for the credit card and PPI during a meeting a branch of 
Barclays.
Mr G paid a monthly premium for the policy. It would have helped with his monthly credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G says he was told the PPI was compulsory in order to have the card. Ive seen a 
copy of Mr Gs signed credit card application. It included equally prominent options to 
take or decline PPI. The Yes option is ticked, indicating that Mr G wished to take 
the cover. I think Barclays made Mr G aware that the PPI was optional. And I think he 
decided to take it, knowing that he had a choice  although I can understand why he 
may no longer remember this, more than 20 years later.
 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr G. This means it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what 
Ive seen on Mr Gs circumstances at the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mr Gs told us hes unsure how much sick pay he'd have been 
entitled to from his employer at the time. The policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on Mr G's credit card for up to twelve months per claim if 
he'd been off sick. Its likely thats longer than Mr G would have been entitled to sick 
pay for. And it would have provided a similar benefit if Mr G had lost his job. Whats 
more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments he received from his 
employer. So he could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mr Gs told us he had savings equivalent to at least a years 
pay at the time. But he hasnt been able to provide evidence to support this. I 
appreciate that Mr G took out the credit card and PPI a long time ago, but without 
evidence to support what he says about his level of savings at the time, Im not 
satisfied, on balance, that Mr Gs alternative means of making his payments made 
the PPI unsuitable for him. And having the policy would have meant that he didnt 
have to use his savings to make his monthly credit card repayments if he was off 
sick, or if he lost his job. He could have kept his savings intact, or used them to meet 
other expenses. So taking everything into account, think the PPI could have been 
useful for Mr G.
 
I accept that its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI wasn't as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looks as if he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, 
Mr G was eligible to take out the policy. And he doesn't appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things it didn't cover (for example, existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment arrangements). 
 
It may be that Barclays could have given Mr G clearer information about the cost of 
the policy. But it was clear from the application form that there would be premiums to 
pay for the PPI. The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that it was unaffordable for Mr G. And as he was paying for it monthly, he 
could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if his circumstances changed, 
or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover.
 
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr G off taking it out. This means I dont think hes lost out as a 
result of anything that Barclays may have done wrong.
 
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr G, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman