DRN-2213495
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Zenith Insurance plc handled his claim on his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car broke down shortly after hed refuelled it. The cause was suspected to be 
contaminated fuel. Mr C made a claim for repairs, but he said he was led to believe that 
Zenith wouldnt repair a car following contamination. He needed a car for work, so he bought 
a new one. Some months later, Zenith told him that it was repairing the car. Mr C wanted it 
to buy the car from him. Zenith offered Mr C £300 compensation for its delays and unclear 
communication. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Zenith 
had written to Mr C early in the claim to say it was investigating the issue to decide whether 
or not the car was beyond economical repair. She thought Mr C had decided to buy a 
replacement car without having Zeniths decision. But she thought Zenith had caused delays 
and hadnt kept Mr C sufficiently informed. So she thought Zenith should return Mr Cs car to 
him. She thought its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C replied that hed acted on the understanding that Zenith didnt repair contaminated fuel 
damage. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that its now over a year since the incident and I can understand that this must be 
causing Mr C a lot of frustration and stress. Hes told us that his car has now been returned 
to him but its not in working condition. Our investigator has already explained that Mr C 
must first complain to Zenith about this before we can consider this new complaint further. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr C said he was told early on by Zeniths claim line that it didnt generally fix cars where 
there was contaminated fuel damage. And I can see that there is an exclusion under the 
policy for damage caused by contamination. From Zeniths notes, it told Mr C when he 
reported the claim that he may not be covered, and Mr C was to call a file handler to discuss 
this. Ive listened to the claim notification call and I think it was made clear to Mr C that his 
claim might not be accepted. 
Zenith had also written to Mr C to say that it would take his car for assessment. And this 
would decide whether his car was repairable or not. But I can see that Mr C stressed a 
paragraph in the letter that said that, from the description of the damage, his car may be 
beyond economical repair. Mr C bought a new car on the strength of this. But I think his 
decision was premature as Zenith had yet to validate and investigate his claim. 
Mr C wanted Zenith to buy his car from him as he couldnt afford to run two cars. But as I 
dont think Zenith was responsible for Mr Cs decision to buy a replacement car, then I dont 
think this would be fair or reasonable. I can see that Zenith has now returned Mr Cs car to 
him. 
When the claim was raised, Zenith took Mr Cs car for assessment. I can see that Mr C 
called Zenith several times and tried to find out what was happening. But it took Zenith over 
three months to decide to send the car to a dealer for assessment and possible repair and 
then a month to authorise repairs. I dont think this length of time was fair or reasonable. I 
can see that delays were caused by Zeniths agents not collecting fuel samples and Zenith 
not authorising the repairs in a timely manner.
In the meantime, I think Zenith failed to keep Mr C informed about what was happening with 
his car. Mr C said he didnt receive promised updates. Zenith agreed that its communication 
had been poor. Zenith offered Mr C £300 compensation for the trouble and upset these 
delays and poor communication caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require Zenith to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman