DRN-3336315
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) charged an incorrect amount at the end of 
his finance agreement, and that his credit file has been affected. 
Mr M is represented in this complaint by Mrs M, but for ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr M 
directly throughout my decision. 
What happened
In January 2017 Mr M acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. The 
agreement ran for four years and required Mr M to make a set payment each month. At the 
end of the agreement, Mr M could choose to return the vehicle to VF, or to keep it by paying 
a balloon payment of £6,000. 
In January 2021 the agreement came to an end. Mr M arranged with the dealership to sell 
his vehicle to them. This meant the balloon payment became due to VF. Mr M intended to 
use the value of the vehicle toward a new vehicle for Mrs M. But it wasnt clear when the 
new vehicle would become available, and the dealership told Mr M this might be two months. 
So, VF agreed to extend the balloon payment in order for Mr M to keep his car for longer 
than the term of the agreement. Mr M paid £536.99 to VF for this extension. This reduced 
the remaining balloon payment to £5,463.01, and VF gave this settlement figure to Mr M, 
who passed it along to the dealership he was selling the car to. 
Mr M sold his car to the dealership and they paid the settlement figure to VF. 
Ultimately, the new car for Mrs M was available much sooner than anticipated, and Mr M 
found that he no longer needed to keep his vehicle for the agreed two months. So, VF 
refunded the advance payment Mr M had made.  
VF received £5,463.01 from the dealership, so they billed Mr M for the £536.99 shortfall from 
the balloon payment. 
Mr M complained to VF in March 2021. He said he hadnt needed to keep the car for the 
extra two months, so he shouldnt have to pay anything further. His car was worth enough to 
settle the existing finance. 
VF sent Mr M their final response to his complaint in April 2021. They explained that the 
£6,000 balloon payment was due at the end of the agreement, and theyd received 
£5,463.01 from the dealership, so Mr M was responsible for the remaining £536.99 in order 
to settle the finance agreement. They reduced the amount Mr M needed to pay to £268.50  
as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to us for investigation. Our investigator said 
the car was used as a part exchange, and so wasnt returned to VF. This meant the balloon 
payment was due, and the whole sum hadnt been paid to VF, so she didnt think VF had 
acted unfairly in holding Mr M responsible for the shortfall. 
Mr M disagreed. He said the balloon extension was separate from the balloon payment and 
agreement, and if VF had quoted £6,000 as the outstanding settlement figure, then the 
dealership wouldve paid this. Mr M said the offer to reduce the balance was an admission of 
an error, VFs communication has been confusing, and the adverse information on Mr Ms 
credit file has been particularly distressing. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement that Mr M entered, sets out that if Mr M choses to keep the 
car at the end of the agreement, he must pay the final balloon payment of £6,000 to VF. 
Mr M sold his car to the dealership, who used it as a part exchange against a new 
agreement. So, Im satisfied that Mr M didnt return the car to VF. He chose to keep it, and 
so Im satisfied that the full £6,000 was due to VF. 
VF agreed to let Mr M keep his car past the agreement end date without paying the full 
payment. They extended the balloon payment, so that Mr M paid £536.99 to keep the car 
without paying the full payment until March 2021. I think this was reasonable. VF knew that 
Mr M wanted to keep the car, but he needed a little more time to make the full payment 
because of the arrangements for a new vehicle. 
This left £5,463.01 to be paid to VF, and this was the settlement figure they gave when 
asked. I think VF gave a correct settlement figure, because at that time, this was what 
remained to be paid to fully settle the finance agreement. 
Mr M didnt need the extension because his new car arrived early. So, VF refunded the 
advance payment Mr M had made. Im satisfied that because of this refund, the full £6,000 
was due to be paid to VF. 
Mr M said that if VF had told the dealership this figure, they wouldve paid it. I dont dispute 
that Mr Ms vehicle had enough equity to settle his finance agreement with VF. But VF only 
received £5,463.01 from the dealership. 
VF billed Mr M for the shortfall of £536.99. Im satisfied this was a correct charge, as the full 
payment hadnt been paid to VF, and so there was an outstanding amount of finance to pay. 
Mr M didnt pay this, and so Im satisfied that the arrears letters and credit refence 
information VF have recorded about the outstanding sum is correct. 
I appreciate that the situation has been a stressful one for Mr M, and he feels that VF 
couldve been clearer in their communication. Im satisfied that the outstanding amount is 
due to VF for the reasons set out above, and I think they were clear about the balloon 
extension, the refund, and why there was a shortfall. So, I dont think they need to do 
anything more. VF offered to reduce the amount owed by 50%, and Mr M might want to 
check with VF if this offer is still available. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman