DRN-3687341
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In July 2021, Miss Ms registered mobile phone was used to make £5,750 of online transfers 
from her savings account to an external bank account, authenticated using biometric facial 
recognition, or Face ID for short.
Miss M said this wasnt her. She said shed never given her security details out or written 
them down. She hadnt received any suspicious communications or fallen victim to a scam, 
and she hadnt lost any important documents like her ID. Miss M hadnt lost her phone, no 
one else had access to it, she hadnt had any issues with her phone, and shed had it 
checked by Apple afterwards who found nothing of concern. Miss M told Santander that her 
father also used her account, but told our service that Santander had misinterpreted her and 
shed not given anyone else access to her account. She also said she had evidence shed 
never used Face ID, though she didnt provide this.
Santander held Miss M liable for the payments in dispute. They found theyd been made on 
her registered device, authenticated by facial recognition, from her usual IP address, and 
there didnt seem to be any point of compromise for her phone.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Santander can hold Miss M liable for the payments in dispute if she 
authorised them.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that the payments in dispute used 
Miss Ms genuine mobile app and facial recognition. So I can see that these transactions 
were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its 
most likely Miss M consented to the transactions, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were made by a fraudster who Miss M 
did not know beforehand.
The device used for the disputed payments was first registered on Miss Ms account all the 
way back in December 2020, verified by a One-Time Passcode sent to Miss Ms mobile 
number  the same phone number she still uses now. And Miss M had used this device for 
previous genuine, undisputed spending. Further, according to Santanders records, after 
Miss M reported the disputed transactions and changed her online banking security details, 
she then re-registered this same device. So Im satisfied that this was a genuine mobile 
phone that Miss M had authorised the use of.
Miss M explained that no one else had access to her device. She hadnt been victim to a 
scam, answered any suspicious calls or texts, or clicked on any suspicious links. And shed 
had her phone checked by the manufacturer afterwards, who found nothing wrong. So there 
is not a likely or plausible way that a fraudster accessed her device remotely. I can see that 
Miss M still had her phone afterwards, so I dont think it was stolen  its neither likely nor 
plausible that a fraudster would risk being caught in order to give Miss Ms phone back after 
stealing it, and its highly unlikely they could both steal and return it without Miss M noticing.
The payments were each authenticated using Face ID, which again had been registered to 
the account back in December 2020, again using a One-Time Passcode that was sent to the 
same phone number Miss M still uses now. And Miss M had then used this Face ID to 
authorise genuine spending prior to the disputed payments. Miss M said she had evidence 
that shed never used Face ID, but despite our investigator chasing her she never provided 
this. She only gave us a screenshot indicating that she no longer uses Face ID now, which 
doesnt disprove that she used it before. And Santanders technical evidence is clear. Im 
satisfied that the payments were made using Miss Ms registered facial ID.
It was not realistically possible for an unknown fraudster to exactly mimic Miss Ms face and 
pass biometric identification. And Miss M would have noticed if a fraudster had taken her 
phone and then repeatedly scanned her face with it over several hours in order to put 
through each of the disputed payments. So again, theres no likely or plausible way that a 
fraudster could have passed Face ID here.
Lastly, I can see that the payments in dispute were made from the same IP addresses that 
Miss M used for her genuine account activity. So again, this strongly supports that the 
transactions were not made by an unknown party.
Taking all that together, we can reasonably rule out that an unknown party did this.
Next, Ive considered the possibility that someone known to Miss M, such as a friend or 
family member, may have made the transactions without her permission. But I dont think 
thats likely either.
While Miss M told our service repeatedly that she hadnt let anyone else use her account, 
and that Santander had misinterpreted her, Ive listened to her call when she reported the 
fraud. In that call, she was asked about the recent payments, and said I dont know if my 
Dad did that, because he also has access to my account, so Id have to ask him about that. 
She went on to ask for her account to be unblocked so that she could confirm with her father 
which payments were and werent his. She also explained that her father needed the 
account unblocked as he was owed money by someone and they were going to pay it into 
Miss Ms account. And she then put the call on hold to talk to her sister, as she said her 
sister would know more.So I can see that Miss M was sharing her account. And given what I explained above about 
how the payments were made  using Miss Ms genuine registered device, at her IP 
address, using her registered biometric Face ID  its not likely or plausible that a friend or 
family member couldve made the transactions without Miss Ms consent. And so if someone 
known to Miss M did make these payments, I think its most likely that they were able to do 
so because shed given them the use of her account.
Indeed, it seems that the only likely or plausible possibility remaining is that the payments 
were made with Miss Ms consent  either by her or by someone shed given permission to. 
That fits very well with all the evidence about how the payments were authenticated. And 
Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss M couldve 
authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them. Further, the 
inconsistencies in Miss Ms testimony make it hard for me to support her version of events.
In summary, Im satisfied that the disputed transactions were made using Miss Ms genuine 
registered device, at her IP address, using her registered biometric Face ID. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to 
Miss M did this without her permission. Indeed, Miss M said on a recorded call that shed 
given at least one family member the use of her account. That leaves only one likely 
possibility  that Miss M made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make 
them. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss M 
to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Santander to decline a refund in this 
case.
Lastly, I understand that Miss M is unhappy with Santanders security procedures. But we 
dont set what security processes a bank can and cant have  thats done by the regulator. 
Were just here to resolve individual complaints. Further, I cant fairly say that Santander 
should have blocked the payments when I think the payments in question were actually 
authorised by Miss M or someone shed given the use of her account. And I can see that 
Santander reported Miss Ms fraud concerns to the receiving bank the same day she raised 
the dispute, and that they investigated and sent her a letter with the results on the same day 
 which is really rather quick.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman