DRN-2419351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Leeds Building Society (LBS) didnt contact them when they 
didnt return mortgage acceptance paperwork.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs fixed rate on their mortgage with LBS was due to end on 28 February 2019, 
so they were going to be moved to LBSs standard variable rate. Mr and Mrs H, via a broker, 
began the application process for a new fixed rate of 1.79% for two years, due to start on 1 
March 2019.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs H received a letter informing them their mortgage rate was being 
reduced from 5.69% to 5.29% from May 2020. They raised a complaint with LBS as they 
believed they were on a rate of 1.79%, as per their application the previous year. LBS said 
that they had been sent an acceptance form to complete to move onto this fixed rate, but as 
it hadnt received this back, they had instead moved to the standard variable rate.
Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint with LBS. They said they didnt receive an acceptance 
form, so this is why they hadnt signed and returned this. They wanted LBS to change their 
mortgage rate to 1.79% and backdate it to when this rate wouldve been applied. They 
considered LBS shouldve contacted them when it didnt receive the form back. So they 
suggested LBS should implement a process where it emails, texts or phones consumers if 
they havent returned documents after a week or so.
LBS didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It said it wasnt its responsibility to follow up on 
acceptance forms if they are not returned. It also said that their annual mortgage statement 
wouldve highlighted the rate they were on. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service, as they didnt accept LBSs response. 
They still considered it shouldve done more. Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. 
She said LBS wasnt required to chase Mr and Mrs H and that we werent the regulator  so 
we couldnt make LBS implement a process to do this for other customers. And she 
considered Mr and Mrs H wouldve had the opportunity to realise the rate hadnt changed 
sooner, as they didnt receive any paperwork and their bank statements showed a higher 
payment going out for their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said they never 
received the acceptance letter, so couldnt complete and return it. They said their previous 
application had all been handled by the broker, so they didnt know there would be further 
paperwork, so were unaware the letter had been lost. They also said they had many 
transactions going out of their account so wouldnt have noticed this. They felt that as they 
were existing customers, LBS had a duty to check in/chase them when they hadnt returned 
the form  rather than just increasing their rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, but having reviewed their complaint, 
I wont be upholding it. As our investigator has previously set out, its not our role to dictate to 
a business how it should operate. And I accept LBSs stance that it isnt required to chase a 
consumer in situations like this, when they havent returned acceptance paperwork.
I appreciate in Mr and Mrs Hs case that they did want to go ahead with this mortgage 
product. But there are a number of reasons a consumer may start an application process 
and then not want to go through with the product. And a large number of people apply for 
products with building societies like LBS every day. So I cant say its unreasonable for LBS 
not to chase every person who doesnt return their paperwork. I understand Mr H considers 
the responsibility on LBS should be higher as he and Mrs H were existing customers. But it 
isnt. And while I can see the benefit this wouldve provided in their case, its not something 
I can say LBS had to do, so instruct it to do this going forward.
I accept Mr and Mrs Hs argument that they couldnt sign and return paperwork they didnt 
receive. And as theyd not completed paperwork for a rate change with the same provider 
before, they may not have realised there was more paperwork than theyd completed. But at 
the same time, Mr and Mrs H believed they were decreasing their mortgage rate and yet 
their monthly payments instead went up. While I appreciate theyve said they have a number 
of transactions leaving their account which can vary, I do still consider they had the 
opportunity to notice that they werent on the new rate. Their move to a standard variable 
rate meant they had around £70 less in their account each month, which isnt an insignificant 
amount. And I think that even with broker involvement, they shouldve expected to receive 
some form of confirmation paperwork from LBS  which they didnt.
I understand why it would be helpful for LBS to chase customers who are in a situation like 
Mr and Mrs H, where they are unaware they need to do more to finalise a new product. But 
this isnt something I can direct LBS to do as a business. And on Mr and Mrs Hs individual 
level, I cant see there was any reason it needed to do this at the time  so it did something 
wrong by not contacting them. Ultimately as Mr and Mrs H wanted to move to the new 
mortgage product, it was their responsibility to make sure this had happened, so I cant hold 
LBS responsible for the change not going through in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman