DRN-3300388
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly approved his 
credit card account application.
What happened
Mr W says he applied for a NatWest credit card account on advice from it. He says he wasnt 
working and had problems getting credit at the time. Mr W says the account was 
unaffordable and he had a poor credit history. He would like the debt written off and says he 
has health issues.
NatWest says Mr W applied for the account online and told it he was earning £2,000 net a 
month. It says it carried out affordability checks and calculated Mr W had about £1,000 a 
month available after living expenses deducted. It also says there was no adverse 
information on Mr Ws credit file, and he had limited other available credit of about £100.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator asked Mr W for his credit file and his 
bank statements from the time. They havent been provided and the investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. The investigator thought NatWest did carry out appropriate 
affordability checks and that the account appeared affordable.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says the account was unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of that lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected NatWests checks to have been as detailed as for 
that type of lending. But of course, appropriate checks must still be carried out.
I can see that Mr W made the credit card application and declared an income over £2,000 a 
month. I can see that NatWest checked the affordability of the account and calculated how 
much money Mr W would be left with after his expenditure was considered. That figure was 
over £1,000 a month. So, Im satisfied that the account with a credit limit of £2,000 was on 
the face of it affordable.
Im satisfied that having looked at NatWests records that it also considered Mr Ws credit 
file. And could see there wasnt any adverse information recorded on it such as a default or 
missed payments. Im satisfied that Mr W had limited other debts and that there wasnt any 
information on the checks NatWest carried out that suggested the account was unaffordable.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr 
Ws credit file. I cant see anything that would have led NatWest to have concluded the 
lending was unaffordable. If Mr W believes he had evidence showing the lending was 
unaffordable then I would have expected him to have provided that evidence and credit file. 
But based on the evidence I have seen Im satisfied that NatWest didnt act unfairly by 
opening this account. In any event I make clear to Mr W that even if I thought appropriate 
affordability checks were not carried out then I wouldnt have ordered NatWest write off the 
account balance as he would like, as clearly Mr W had the benefit of that money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman