DRN-4027921
The complaint
Mr C and Miss C complained about the level of settlement paid by UK Insurance Limited 
(UKI) following a claim for fire damage under their commercial property insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term UKI includes its agents and loss adjusters in this 
decision letter.
What happened
Mr C and Miss C held a commercial property insurance policy with UKI for their row of units 
and flats, the policy having been issued in March 2022. The policy schedule recorded that 
the buildings were insured for £1.5 million. Mr C and Miss C had declared the reinstatement 
value of the buildings to be just over £1 million. UKI considered the correct reinstatement 
value to have been £1.7 million.
In June 2022, Mr C and Miss C registered a claim with UKI following unfortunate damage 
caused by a fire started outside the property and UKI accepted the claim. Mr C and Miss C 
organised quotes for repairs, which amounted to just over £14,600 and this amount was 
accepted by UKIs loss adjuster. Mr C and Miss Cs broker initially said that an average 
would be applied to the settlement as Mr C and Miss C hadnt declared the correct value to 
reflect the cost of reinstatement of the property. However, after reviewing the policy wording, 
UKI increased the cash settlement having then calculated it on a proportional basis. Mr C 
and Miss C considered that there shouldnt have been any settlement reduction and that the 
policy wording had been misleading and hadnt been correctly applied. UKI didnt agree and 
considered that the policy explained the terminology. Mr C and Miss C remained unhappy 
and referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr C and Miss Cs complaint and recommended that UKI pay a 
revised settlement amount. She thought that UKI should calculate this based on the 
difference between total cover of just over £1.5 million and the correct reinstatement value of 
just over £1.7 million. It was also her view that UKI should pay 8% interest on the balance of 
this amount.
Initially the investigator had taken the view that UKI had correctly calculated the settlement 
amount. However, she subsequently reached the view that Mr C and Miss Cs reduced 
settlement should have been calculated using the figure for the sum insured of around £1.5 
million and not the declared value of around £1 million. She said that Mr C and Miss C had 
always accepted that they were under-insured, but the crux of their complaint was that it 
wasnt by as much of a margin as stated by UKI. The investigator thought that Mr C and 
Miss C had been led to believe that they were covered for the higher figure, and she 
therefore didnt think that UKI had treated Mr C and Miss C fairly.
UKI didnt agree with the investigators view. It considered that the wording of the policy 
meant that a proportional remedy should be applied against the declared value not the sum 
insured. It also considered that the onus was on the broker to explain the policy to the 
customer, ensure it met their needs and that the various policy limits were correct. The 
matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Miss C considered that theyd been misled by UKI. Mr C said they hadnt been 
aware of the relevance and difference between the two terms which appeared in their policy 
paperwork, being sum insured and declared value. The bottom line is that I thought I was 
insured for [just over £1.5 million] (still under I accept) rather than [just over £1 million].
Mr C explained the background to the matter He said that UKI claimed that the property was 
under-insured and only paid out 58.9% of the claim. Mr C thought they were insured for the 
sum insured being just over £1.5 million whilst UKI said he was only insured for the 
declared value being just over £1 million. Mr C thought that these were misleading terms 
and asked UKIs loss adjusters to recalculate the award based on the sum insured rather 
than the declared value, however they refused to do so. UKI agreed however that a 
proportional calculation should have been used rather than an average calculation and 
referred to the two relevant conditions in the policy booklet as follows: 
Average - found under General Definitions  Reinstatement Basis
If the sum insured represented less than 85% of the reinstatement cost at the time of the 
loss we can reduce the claim amount by that proportion the sum insured bears to the actual 
sum at risk.
Proportional Remedy  found under General Conditions  Fair Presentation of the Risk
If the sum insured does not represent the actual cost of reinstatement at the time of the loss 
we can proportionally reduce the claim payment by the % difference in the original premium 
and premium we would have charged.
UKI considered that Mr C and Miss C had been under-insured as the value which they had 
declared in setting up the policy had been for just over £1 million and considered that the 
declared value should have been over £1.7 million. As a result, it said that the settlement 
would be reduced. UKI had noted that the repair costs were just over £14,600 and after the 
reduction due to under-insurance, a settlement of just over £8,600 was appropriate. UKI 
accepted that there had been errors made by the brokers and its agents.
It explained that the policy booklet provided to Mr C and Miss C referred to the average 
calculation, however this was the incorrect policy booklet. It said that the correct booklet 
which Mr C and Miss C should have had referred to a proportional calculation. UKI 
increased its settlement by just over £950 following review. It also paid just over £200 
compensation and interest for delay in paying the further payment. It therefore upheld the 
complaint to this extent, and apologised for the service received by Mr C and Miss C. 
Turning to the reasoning for my final decision, the starting point for such cases is the 
wording of the policy documents. Ive noted from the terms and conditions that a 
Proportional Remedy applied here. I note that Mr C and Miss C paid nearly £1,800 in 
premiums based on the property value which theyd declared of just over £1 million. Mr C 
and Miss C would have been charged a premium of just over £2,700 if the correct value had 
been declared. As the policy documents provide for a proportional remedy, I consider that it 
was fair and reasonable for the amount paid by UKI to Mr and Miss C to be reduced. Mr and 
Mrs C accept this point. The question for me to determine however, is by how much the 
settlement should have been reduced.I note that the policy documents dont spell out the difference between the terms sum 
insured and declared value. Nor do they spell out the consequences of a declared value 
being too low. Whilst this is a finely balanced judgement, I conclude that it was unfair and 
unreasonable for UKI to reduce the cash settlement in the way that it did. Whilst declared 
value is mentioned towards the end of the policy booklet under the heading Optional 
Extensions, I dont think it gives the term and its meaning sufficient prominence, bearing in 
mind that UKI now seeks to rely on the wording to significantly reduce the settlement to Mr C 
and Miss C. The policy schedule shows that buildings are insured for just over £1.5 million 
under the heading Sum Insured. Under that figure, it also refers to the Declared Value as 
being just over £1 million, but with no further explanation of the figures or how they link to the 
wording at the end of the booklet or how these would affect a claim that fell well short of the 
sum insured or the declared value under the policy.
In the circumstances, I dont consider that it would have been unreasonable for Mr C and 
Miss C to have believed that their property was covered for £1.5 million. I dont consider that 
the separate figure for declared value would have alerted Mr C and Miss C that a claim for 
an insured peril would be reduced to the extent it was due to the different meanings of these 
two terms. I conclude that the policy documents were insufficiently clear and misleading as 
to the consequences of declaring a property reinstatement value which was too low. 
In conclusion, I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable to expect UKI to pay Mr C and 
Miss C the total sum claimed. I do however consider that it would be fair and reasonable for 
UKI to re-calculate the settlement to recognise the misleading policy information. This re-
calculation would acknowledge that there was under insurance but would base the 
calculation on the higher amount of just over £1.5 million rather than just over £1 million. I 
agree with our investigator that UKIs payment of just over £200 was appropriate 
compensation for any inconvenience caused by UKIs original miscalculation. I dont 
consider that a further compensatory payment is appropriate here due to the finely balanced 
judgement on the substantive issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr C and Miss Cs complaint against UK Insurance 
Limited and I require it to: -
- Pay an additional cash settlement, the calculation to be based on the amount that 
would have been paid if £1.5 million had been the declared value. 
- Pay 8% simple interest* per annum on the additional cash settlement resulting from 
the above calculation from the date of initial settlement to the date of final settlement.
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C and Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C 
and Miss C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman