DRN-3727071
The complaint and what happened
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost to a scam. He is being 
represented by a CMC (claims management company) in this complaint. 
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr W was contacted by 24options (also known as Rodeler) with an investment 
opportunity. He understood they were a regulated business, and his research 
showed they had sponsored a well-known international football team.  In January 
2020, over the course of a few weeks, Mr W invested a total of £22,000. He also 
made payments in March and April 2020, but they havent been complained about 
here. 
In February 2022, via his CMC, he raised a complaint about HSBCs lack of 
intervention in the payments. HSBC didnt uphold his complaint, rather it told him to 
raise the dispute with its disputes team. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Although it later transpired that 
24options and Rodeler were considered a scam, at the time of Mr Ws payments it 
was regulated in another jurisdiction and had passporting rights into the UK. As such, 
he found that even had HSBC intervened in the payments, its unlikely Mr W wouldnt 
have invested, given it was considered a legitimate business at the time. 
The CMC has asked for a final decision. It considers that HSBC ought to have 
intervened in the payments as the higher value payments were unusual for the 
account, and there were warnings about the trader on the investor protection portal of 
the International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) from as early as 
2013. It considers if HSBC had researched this and shared the information with Mr W 
that he wouldnt have invested. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
Im satisfied that Mr W has likely been scammed. On 1 June 2020, the FCA removed 
24options/Rodelers passporting rights to operate in the UK referring to it enticing 
consumers into scams involving Contracts for Difference (a high-risk investment 
area).
HSBC is fully aware of our approach of it being good industry practice for firms to 
have updated watch-lists with types of scams and potential fraudsters and for those 
watch-lists to be updated and communicated internally with staff within one month of 
an alert being posted by the FCA or ISOCO. Such an alert should automatically 
trigger its systems and lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  
such as making enquiries, or giving a scam warning. 
The FCA didnt publish a warning about this trader until 1 June 2020, which is after 
Mr W made his payments. However, I accept the CMCs points that other countries 
had posted warnings on IOSCO as early as 2013. So HSBC ought to have 
intervened in the payments made. 
But that of itself doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld. I need to be 
persuaded that an intervention would have stopped Mr W from investing. 
The CMC seems to be under the impression that the bank ought to carry out 
research for its customers when it pauses a payment that looks suspicious. But that 
isnt reasonable. We would expect banks to educate a customer on the steps they 
can take  research etc  to ensure they are dealing with a legitimate trader and 
provide a scam warning if necessary. And had HSBC intervened here and told Mr W 
about the research he could carry out he simply would have discovered the trader 
was regulated in another country and had passporting rights to offer financial 
services to UK customers. Im not persuaded anything about that would indicate to 
either the bank or Mr W, that he was ultimately investing into a scam. 
I have considered the warnings on IOSCO from 2013, 2014 and 2015. All of these 
relate to the trader offering financial services when it wasnt authorised or licensed to 
do so. And whilst that could be an indication of a scam, Im mindful the trader was 
actually regulated, had been since 2013, and had had passporting rights into the UK 
since 2014, which it still held at the time of the payments in dispute.  Furthermore, Mr 
Ws research showed the trader had sponsored an international football team  not 
typical behaviour for a scammer. Im not persuaded the information on IOSCO, when 
weighed against everything else, would have caused Mr W to act differently.    
Overall, Im not persuaded an intervention by HSBC would have resulted in Mr W not 
investing. Im satisfied he would have continued to invest and so incur the losses he 
did. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint or make an award against HSBC. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman