DRN-2704706
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Central Investment Services (Scotland) Limited trading as
Central Investment. His complaint is, essentially, that with better advice he would have taken
benefits from an occupational pension sooner than he did.
 
What happened
Mr T had been receiving advice from Central Investment in his financial affairs for several
years.
Central Investment provided a report in October 2013 which detailed that he had four
pension policies, one of which was an occupational pension held with a former employer. Ill
refer to this plan as the OPS. It is this plan that is central to the complaint.
The report from October 2013 said about the OPS:
This is a final salary pension under which you have deferred pension benefits. The normal
retirement date is your 65th birthday. You left the scheme on 30 September 2003 and are
entitled to a deferred pension of £5,816.71pa. We have been unable to obtain a current
transfer value at this time, however as previously intimated, this plan offers valuable
guarantees and should be retained until your chosen retirement date.
In addition to the above, the OPS was subject to revaluations each year until it was taken at
retirement. Pension in respect of service before April 2009 increased at the lower of either
5% and inflation. After retirement, service between years 1997 and 2005 (which applied to
Mr T) was also subject to increases in line with the lower of either inflation or 5%.
Mr T emailed the OPS in May 2017 stating that he had finished work and was soon turning
60, and asking:
I think I am entitled to a pension ..of approximately £6000 pa commencing on my 60th
birthday and would like to know if this correct If not what the amount will be.
The OPS responded explaining that he was eligible for a pension of approximately £7,980,
or a reduced pension of £5,690 with a lump sum of £37,955.
Mr T sent the information on to his adviser at Central Investment. A CETV (cash equivalent
transfer value) for the scheme was provided on 23 May 2017, which Mr T sent on to Central
Investment, who in turn stated they would run an analysis on this.
The analysis was produced on 27 June 2017, showing that if transferred, a required annual
investment return of 10.2% was needed for the transferred sum of £237,000 to produce the
same income as the OPS at Mr Ts normal retirement age. No further advice was
given about the scheme.
Central Investment produced a suitability report on 31 August 2017 with their pension
recommendations. The report said, although you are not actually looking the access any
pension benefits just yet, as you are drawing from an income from your investments You
would like to review your ongoing pensions with a view to consolidating the holdings in order
to simplify your ongoing administration.
By this time Mr T was aged 60. The report included a recommendation to transfer a Free
Standing AVC scheme and a stakeholder pension to a wrap service. The report also
commented about another pension Mr T held (not the OPS), saying: It is necessary that we
undertake a full analysis of your above benefits in order that we may provide you with a
recommendation This necessitates us charging a separate fee of £2000 I would
therefore suggest we discuss your requirements in this respect further.
The report didnt comment on the OPS, beyond saying that the defined benefits plan will be
looked at separately, given the nature of this plan we may require an additional meeting to
discuss your requirements further.
Another review meeting took place between Mr T and his adviser in September 2017, with
two more in 2018.
Mr T complained to Central Investment in 2019. He stated that he should have been advised
in 2017 to begin drawing the final salary pension from the OPS, and because he wasnt, he
lost around two years worth of income.
Central Investment didnt up hold the complaint, and so it was referred to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator, he decided that it shouldnt be upheld.
He noted that Central Investment said that Mr T hasnt lost out because he can take his
pension now, and that it has been re-valued upwards in the years he didnt take the income.
However, the investigator didnt think that was right. The pension seems to be revised under
the same terms whether it is in payment or not.
But the investigator didnt think Central Investment was responsible for Mr Ts decision not to
access the OPS. He said, in summary, Mr T was aware from at least 2013 that he could take
his pension without penalty from age 60. Central Investment didnt contradict this
information. The 2017 advice was about consolidating defined contribution plans and had
nothing to do with the OPS. Although the possibility of taking advice about the OPS was
discussed, it never went to full conclusion, and it wouldnt have covered the subject Mr T
complains about, only whether the income should be given up entirely.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and made a provisional decision saying that I felt the complaint 
should be upheld. I said:
Ive provisionally reached a different conclusion to the investigator. My current view is that
this complaint should be upheld.
Central Investment were advising Mr T on his financial affairs, including his pensions. He
was paying for their services and, in my view, entitled to expect and receive professional
advice from experts. He seems to have relied upon advice from Central Investment.
Im satisfied that Central Investment had awareness of the OPS and that it providedvaluable guaranteed benefits. It had advised that Mr T retain those benefits in 2013.
In 2017 Central Investment was aware that the benefits from the OPS could be accessed at
60. Mr T had told them so, even if it was not aware of that already. A preliminary transfer
analysis seems to have been undertaken, but there was no advice to transfer. The rate of
return to match the guaranteed benefits was high, and it seems unlikely to me that any more
detailed analysis would have revealed that transfer was in Mr Ts best interests, or suitable
for him.
No advice was given at that time about accessing the OPS benefits, although Central
Investment knew that Mr T was taking an income from his investments.
I agree, that in a sense, Central Investment didnt prevent Mr T accessing the OPS benefits.
However, I think it would have been reasonable for him to expect advice on the issue. I think
its strange that it didnt advise him to access these benefits from 60 when he was eligible to
access them. I dont fully understand why it didnt. I dont think this required a detailed
analysis. It knew Mr T was taking an income from his investments. Income from the OPS
could have replaced that income and left his investments intact. Mr T was a lay person
paying for advice. He may have thought that delaying access to these benefits wouldnt
cause him any loss. A lay person may expect that benefits not taken were, in effect, saved
for later. But that was not the case, and I think Central Investment knew, or certainly ought to
have known that.
There was no advantage to Mr T, so far as I can see, in drawing on his investments and not
taking an income from the OPS. As he came to understand, the income from the OPS
between 2017 and 2019 was effectively lost. The income he ultimately took was not higher
because he claimed it later. It would have been revalued whilst in payment anyway.
I think Central Investment ought to have considered whether Mr T should access the OPS
income sooner. It had not advised him to transfer out of the OPS and deferring the income
wasnt advantageous so its not clear to me why didnt it suggest that he claimed the income
sooner. Central Investment may have misunderstood the OPS terms, it has suggested in its
response to this complaint that Mr T has not suffered any loss. I dont agree with that, and
perhaps this does demonstrate some misunderstanding on its part. That may explain the
lack of advice.
I think Central Investment ought to have considered whether Mr T accessed the benefits
from the OPS in 2017 (or sooner). Had it done so, Im satisfied that it would have
recommended that he should. I think Mr T would have accepted that advice and accessed
the benefits from 60.
Both parties accepted the provisional decision. Central Investment asked for information on 
redress which this service should be able to assist in providing.
 
Putting things right
The aim of this redress is to put Mr T in the position he would have been in had he taken
benefits from the OPS at 60, and not later.
I understand that when Mr T claimed the OPS benefits, he took a maximum pension income
and no tax-free cash. I think he would have taken OPS income from age 60 and not drawn 
on his investments. So, he will have suffered a loss of investment growth as well as a loss of
income.
To compensate Mr T, Central Investment should:1. Calculate the pension income payments Mr T wouldve received from reaching age
60 up to the date when he actually claimed the OPS benefits (in 2019).
2. For every pension payment Mr T would have received, Central Investment should
add a notional investment loss. I think it would be fair to assess this investment loss
in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
3. The investment loss in (2) should be calculated from the date each income payment
would have been made, up to the date of this decision.
4. The totals from (1) and (2) represent the loss.
5. The income payments would have fallen within Mr Ts personal income tax allowance
and so I dont think any deduction should be made for income tax.
I think this represents fair redress.
I request that Mr T provide the investigator with evidence of the pension benefits he did 
receive in 2019 when claimed.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Central Investment Services (Scotland) Limited trading as 
Central Investment. It must calculate and pay redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman