DRN-3254720
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays 
Smart Investor (Barclays), delayed acting on its instruction to sell shares. It wants Barclays 
to calculate how much the estate would have received if the shares were sold on the day it 
received the instructions, and to credit the estate with the difference.
The complaint is brought by the executors of the estate, who I will refer to as Mr and Mrs P.
What happened
Mr G had an execution only share dealing account with Barclays. He died in December 2017 
and Mr and Mrs P were appointed as executors of his estate. Mr and Mrs P obtained the 
Grant of Probate and this was sent to Barclays in June 2018.
On 23 October 2020, Mr and Mrs P emailed Barclays a competed Expression of Wish form 
requesting that all Mr Gs shares be sold, and the proceeds paid to the executors account. 
Barclays sold the shares on 3 November. Mr and Mrs P complained about the delay.
Barclays said its bereavement team had five working days to process the instructions. So, it 
said, the shares should have been sold on 30 October. Using the closing shares prices on 
that day, Barclays calculated that the estate should receive an additional £5,636.82. It also 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Barclays terms and conditions set out its obligations when a customer dies. Amongst 
other things, the terms say:
If you die, the Agreement will continue to bind your estate until terminated by, or us 
giving notice to, your validly appointed personal representative. (A 9.1)
I find this means Mr and Mrs P reasonably would have expected the terms and 
conditions, including any timescales set out in those terms, to still apply, unless 
Barclays communicated any new terms and timescales to them. Ive not seen 
evidence to show that Barclays told them its usual timescales wouldnt apply.
The terms also say:
Once we have received the grant of representation for your estate,.we will act in 
accordance with your Personal Representatives Instructions where Regulatory 
Requirements allow but.(b) assets cannot be sold for any other purpose until 
any reregistration process is completed with any fees, charges and expenses owed 
to us accounted for. (A9.3)
Mr and Mrs P provided Barclays with the Grant of Probate in June 2018. I think they 
reasonably would have expected Barclays to have completed any re-registration 
process by the time they gave instructions to sell the shares around 14 months later.
It follows that Mr and Mrs P reasonably would have expected Barclays to act on their 
instructions in line with the timescales set out in its terms and conditions. Clause 10 
of Section A covers Your Instructions. I dont find theres anything in this section to 
suggest Barclays wouldnt meet its usual timescales when it received Mr and Mrs Ps 
instructions. It hadnt made Mr and Mrs P aware of any limitations (10.1), and it 
hadnt told them about any Cut-Off time (10.2) and there isnt anything to suggest 
that Barclays needed to check that the instruction was clear and genuine (10.3 and 
10.4). And 10.6 says:
Unless we agree otherwise, Instructions are effective when we receive them. We will 
not generally acknowledge receipt of Instructions other than by acting on them.
Barclays said that it works to a five working day timescale for acting on dealing 
instructions for deceased customers. And that it would have told Mr and Mrs P about 
this timescale if theyd asked. It explained that instructions are received by its 
bereavement team who then have various tasks to complete before the instructions 
can be passed to its dealers. It said it wasnt reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to assume 
their instructions would be picked up immediately when Barclays was a large 
organisation dealing with multiple customers.
I dont agree. Barclays terms and conditions say:
When we decide to deal on your behalf, in response to an Order to deal:
(a) we will deal promptly in accordance with your Order and our Best Execution 
Policy
(B Part 2 1.5)
Mr and Mrs P gave Barclays instructions to deal on behalf of the estate. Barclays 
received these instructions on 23 October 2020, and it looks like they were received 
at 2.30pm. Barclays already had the Grant of Probate and had verified Mr and Mrs 
Ps identity. There was nothing to suggest to Mr and Mrs P that there should have 
been any undue delay from when the instructions were received to Barclays deciding 
to deal. I think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs P, in the particular circumstances here, 
to expect their sale instructions to have been carried out by the close of business on 
23 October.
And I explained what I thought Barclays needed to do to put things right. I said:
To put things right, I am minded to order Barclays to calculate how much the estate 
would have received had the shares been sold by the close of business on 23 
October 2020. It should pay the difference to the executors account and provide 
them with details of its calculation.
If Barclays had sold the shares on 23 October 2020, the proceeds would most likely 
have been paid to the executors account within the 10-day timescale it told us 
applied here. It should pay interest at 8% per annum simple (less tax if properly 
deductible) on the amount it pays, from the start of that 10-day timescale to the date 
of settlement.Barclays offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £150 for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
been caused. Whilst I accept Mr and Mrs P have been put to some inconvenience 
because of Barclays mistake, Ive not seen evidence to show that the mistake was 
particularly upsetting for them. In the circumstances, I think £150 remains a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation.
I invited both parties to provide further information and evidence in response to my 
provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs P didnt have anything further to add.
Barclays replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
Clause A.9.1 means the portfolio owned by the late Mr G continues to be bound by the 
terms. But the terms dont apply to the executors because they havent signed up to 
them. The executors are merely representatives for the late Mr G.
Clause A10.4 explains that Barclays wont act on an instruction until certain checks have 
taken place. Barclays listed what checks it had to carry out and why it wasnt feasible to 
carry out the sales the day after the instruction was received. It said there were 20 lines 
of stock, each of which had to be checked to make sure they were tradable. It said the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys rules allow it up to 10 working days to carry out an 
instruction and process payment.
The executors for Mr G deceased failed to give instructions for two years after supplying 
the grant of probate. This meant its staff werent familiar with the case and they had to 
make sure the information it had was up to date and correct.
The banks service level agreements arent published because they are subject to 
change. 
In October 2020, the banks processing times were impacted by the pandemic and its 
staff working remotely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive summarised Barclays response to my provisional decision in far less 
detail than the bank and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point its 
raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having carefully considered everything Barclays has said, Im not persuaded to depart from 
my earlier conclusions for the following reasons:
Although Barclays has quoted some of its terms, it says they dont apply to the executors. 
But its terms do apply to the estate itself, so its right that they are considered in deciding 
what the fair outcome is here.I accept that Barclays requires written dealing instructions from the executors. But Im not 
persuaded that it should have taken five working days to carry out the required checking 
here, particularly as the checks required on receipt of the Grant of Probate had already been 
completed.
There was no obligation on the executors to complete the EOW earlier than they did and 
there are many reasons why executors may not be able to provide instructions within a few 
days, weeks, or months of obtaining probate. And, contrary to Barclays suggestion, its staff 
did seem to be aware of the position here as theyd spoken to Mr P in August 2020 to ask 
when they could expect to receive the EOW.
Barclays said it had to check each line of stock for corporate actions or other outstanding 
issues, but I dont find this is any different to any other sale instruction it receives. Barclays 
said not all of Mr G deceaseds holdings were tradable, but this isnt reflected in the 
information its provided to us, so Im not sure this is relevant here.
Barclays has made reference to FCAs CASS rules. But this complaint is not about when the 
executors were paid the proceeds of the sales, but when the sales were carried out.
I accept Barclays will have various service level agreements for various processes. But there 
was nothing to suggest to the executors of Mr G deceaseds estate that their instructions to 
sell his portfolio of shares would not be carried out in line with the published terms and 
conditions. Particularly as Barclays had been in touch to say that they needed the EOW, 
which suggested it was ready and waiting to act on the executors instructions. Mr and Mrs P 
reasonably expected the sales would be carried out on 23 October 2020. And it shouldnt 
have made a difference to them that Barclays working arrangements had been affected by 
the pandemic.
Overall, Im not persuaded that there was anything that should have prevented Barclays 
from completing the sales on that date. I think it should pay compensation as I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
1. Calculate how much the estate would have received had the shares been sold by the 
close of business on 23 October 2020 and pay the difference to the executors account.
2. Provide the executors with details of its calculation.
3. Pay interest at 8% per annum simple (less tax if properly deductible) on the amount it 
pays, from the start of the payment 10-day timescale to the date of settlement. *
4. Pay Mr and Mrs P £150 for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give the executors a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman