DRN-4511066
The complaint
Miss P complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled and assessed her 
cars value following a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P had a motor insurance policy with esure covering her car.
She was involved in a collision with a lorry that was registered overseas. She made a claim 
from esure. 
esure assessed her car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare the car a 
write-off.
Miss P says esure initially offered her about £600 for her car. She wasnt happy about this 
valuation and complained. It increased its valuation to £1,616. Miss P had additional costs to 
pay because she couldnt replace her car.
Miss P also complained about esures communications with her and the delay in handling 
her claim. Liability for the collision wasnt decided and Miss P wants the matter closed. 
Esure paid her £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought it would be upheld. He said he thought esure should pay Miss P a vehicle 
value of £2,074, plus interest at 8% simple. He also thought its service had been poor and it 
should pay a total of £400 compensation. 
Miss P accepted the view, but esure didnt. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Incidents like the one involving Miss P can be very complex to handle. The third-party 
vehicle involved was registered overseas, and what this typically means is that several 
months is often added to the time period to settle the claim. This is because esure would 
need to work to track down who the third party was, locate the foreign insurer and then start 
to investigate their version of the incident before recoveries can then be made.
That said, esure mention in its final response that its initial handling of her claim wasnt very 
good. It said there were several weeks when Miss P wasnt told about what was happening.
I can see from its timeline that this lack of communication was continuing during summer 
2023, which was about a year since the collision took place. Esure apologised for its lack of 
pro-active contact and paid her £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
But I can see theres been several months during which esure doesnt seem to have 
progressed Miss Ps claim or progressed it. Miss P has told this service about the extra costs 
shes had as she needed to pay friends and family for petrol to get to and from work. Shes 
had to pay her excess, which esure said may be refundable depending on the outcome of 
the claim. But as the claim hasnt been actively progressed by esure, this outcome is far 
from certain. 
I dont think this is good service by esure. Even after Mis P complained and her claim was 
escalated, esure still hasnt updated her. I can see from her evidence that shes found the 
experience stressful and inconvenient and this has continued over an extended time due to 
esures lack of pro-active case management. I think an appropriate level of compensation 
would be £400, including the £100 Miss P has already accepted. 
It's important I say Im not able to tell esure to settle Miss Ps claim. This is because esure 
has the right to decide how this happens. This is common in the insurance marketplace and 
its a fair approach. When it does settle the claim, if esures able to recover its costs, Miss P 
may be able to recover her excess and possibly retain her No Claims Discount. But as I say 
above, Im not able to tell esure what to do about this.
I can see Miss P accepted the car valuation proposed by our investigator. The approach of 
this service is to use trade guides to arrive at a valuation for the vehicle. Ive looked into 
these trade guides and I can see the following values:
Trade Guide A £1,430
Trade Guide B £2,074
Trade Guide C £1,945
Trade Guide D £1,223
Its the approach of this service that the highest value from the trade guides is used as the 
market value for Miss Ps claim. Ive not seen evidence from esure about why it thinks this 
value is incorrect. I can see Miss P has accepted it, so, I think esure need to settle her claim 
at a market value of £2,074, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Because of the time thats passed since the collision and claim, I also think esure need to 
add interest at 8% simple on this increased amount from the date it made the initial payment, 
to the date payment is made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss P a total of £400 for her distress and inconvenience. Im aware £100 has 
already been paid, so this can be deducted.
Settle Miss Ps claim at a market value of £2,074 subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions. Interest at 8% simple should be added to the increased amount esure 
needs to pay over what its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman