DRN-2285845
The complaint
Mr K complains that Black Horse Limited repossessed a car he had taken under a 49-month 
hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse for a car valued at over 
£120,000. The hire purchase agreement included the following provisions:
Black Horse could end the agreement if Mr K did not make any payment when due or 
breached it in any other important way.
It could end the agreement if, in Black Horses reasonable opinion, Mr K did something 
that might affect its rights in respect of the car.
If Mr K wanted to take the car out of the UK for more than 28 days, he would need Black 
Horses permission before doing so.
In January 2020 Black Horse found out that Mr K had made enquiries about taking the car to 
southern Africa. It ended the agreement and took possession of the car. It sold it in June 
2020, leaving Mr K owing more than £40,000. 
Mr K complained that Black Horse had not contacted him before taking the action it did, and 
nor had it given him the opportunity to explain his actions. Had it done so, he would have 
been able to explain that he was simply taking the car on holiday. Black Horse did not accept 
that it had done anything wrong, and so Mr K referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but broadly agreed with Black 
Horse. Mr K had not told Black Horse about his travel plans and he accepted that the car 
would have been out of the UK for more than 28 days. It followed that Black Horse was 
within its rights to end the agreement. Mr K did not accept the investigators view and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K explained that his intention was to ship the car to Walvis Bay, Namibia, drive to 
Zimbabwe and then back to Namibia before shipping the car back to the UK. He has 
provided documents showing that in March 2020 he flew from London to Johannesburg, 
then flew to Walvis Bay and, after visiting Botswana, flew back from Johannesburg to 
London. I accept that this was not his original planned itinerary.
It is possible to ship a car from the UK to Namibia and back. It takes about two to three 
weeks for a ship to sail from Felixstowe to Walvis Bay, with two or three services a month. 
Similar timescales apply for a return voyage. However, the precise timing of shipping 
services can change because of weather or delays in loading and unloading cargo, for 
example, so Mr K could not have known with any real certainty when his car might have 
arrived in Namibia or been returned to the UK. 
Mr K has acknowledged that a trip to southern Africa would have meant his car would be out 
of the UK for more than 28 days. I think it would have been out of the UK for significantly 
longer than that, however, and  unless he was planning to be away for several weeks  for 
very much longer than he would have been. 
Mr K says it was an oversight on his part not to check the hire purchase agreement or to 
contact Black Horse about his plans. Shipping a car some 13,000 nautical miles for such a 
trip is, in my view, an unusual step to take and I think Mr K might have realised that Black 
Horse, as the owner of the car, would want to know about it. In any event, the terms of the 
agreement were clear, whether or not Mr K checked them. I think too that Black Horse could 
reasonably take the view that Mr Ks actions, however innocent, might affect its own rights.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Black Horse acted fairly in repossessing the car. Mr K 
says it should have done more to contact him, but Im afraid I do not agree. It wrote to him to 
tell him that it was taking action but was under no duty to try to contact him by, for example, 
email or telephone. 
I note too that Mr K was contacted, after the car had been sold, about a parking fine and a 
speeding ticket. I agree however that these are matters he should take up with the relevant 
authorities to explain that he is no longer the cars keeper. I dont believe it was 
unreasonable either that Black Horse did not sell the car for a few months. Theres no 
suggestion that it was being used in that time, and I have no reason to think Black Horse 
received anything less than its fair value.     
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not require Black Horse Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr 
Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
K to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman