DRN-4189549
The complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr H applied for a loan with RateSetter. RateSetter approved the application 
and gave Mr H a loan for £3000 repayable at £149.62 over a term of 24 months.
Mr H complained that RateSetter lent to him irresponsibly.
RateSetter didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr H.
Mr H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that RateSetter had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he was reliant on his overdraft at the time he applied for the loan 
and that he had to borrow money from family and friends to meet his obligations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Hs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, RateSetter needed to compete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Mr H could sustainably repay what was being lent to him. Theres no 
set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have regard to 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and 
the consumers individual circumstances
Ive looked at the checks completed by RateSetter. Mr H declared annual income of £29,015 
when he applied for the loan, with a net monthly income of £1,949.36. RateSetter verified 
this income using a third party verification tool.
RateSetter carried out a credit search and took into account Mr Hs existing credit 
commitments. It found that Mr H had unsecured debt of around £3000, which comprised 
£2100 credit card and £900 overdraft. The credit search showed no adverse entries in the 
last 6 months.
RateSetter took into account Mr Hs experience on things like housing, food and utility bills 
and (having added in existing debt repayments) calculated that Mr H had monthly disposable 
income of around £468. It assessed the loan as affordable, because Mr H had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
Based on what Ive seen, and taking into account the amount of the loan, I think the checks 
carried out by RateSetter were reasonable and proportionate. I havent seen anything in the 
information gathered from the checks to suggest that Mr H was struggling to repay his credit 
commitments or that there was any reason for further or more detailed checks to be carried 
out.
Mr H has said that he thinks RateSetter should have checked his bank statements. He says 
the statements would show that he was overdrawn and borrowing money from friends. 
Theres no obligation on a lender to look at bank statements. Generally Id only expect a 
lender to look at statements if there was something in the information obtained from initial 
checks which meant that further checks were needed. As Ive said above, I think the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate here.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive taken into account what 
the checks showed about Mr Hs financial circumstances. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr 
H was experiencing financial difficulties or that he wasnt likely to be able to sustainably 
repay the loan. The amount of Mr Hs disposable income showed the loan to be affordable 
for him. I think the lending decision was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman