DRN-3464337
The complaint
Mr W complains about the recording of a default by Santander UK PLC.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr W and Santander. I wont repeat
in detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr W had a UK credit card account with Santander. He has told us he generally worked in
the USA but returned to the UK every few months. On 4 January 2020 he was in the UK and
visited a Santander branch to make payment towards his outstanding credit card balance.
On 5 January 2020 a recurrent payment of around £60 came out of Mr Ws credit card
account. On 15 January 2020 a standing order payment credited the account with £50  but
this didnt clear the outstanding balance.
Mr W returned to the USA, believing that a monthly payment of £50 from a standing order
would continue to be paid into the account. Hes said that due to issues with a phone
number, he was unable to log into his account online. Arrears and fees began to build up 
and ultimately Santander reported the account as defaulted to the relevant credit reference
agencies.
Mr W complained to Santander but they didnt uphold his complaint. He then referred his
complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt recommend that
the complaint be upheld and as Mr W didnt accept, his complaint was referred to
me for a decision.
I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings recently and provided 
an opportunity for further comments or evidence to be made before 8 September 2022. As 
that deadline has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Similarly, I wont comment on every point made by either party here  only the key ones that
materially affect the outcome of this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to
all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Mr W didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline set. Santander provided a 
response to the provisional decision. In summary, they commented that:
there was information on their website related to customers updating their contact 
details https://www.santander.co.uk/personal/support/customer-support/trouble-
logging-on-to-online-banking and 
https://www.santander.co.uk/personal/support/customer-support/changing-your-
details;
where a customer changes their phone number, generally they can still log into their 
online banking but cant carry out transactions due to not having access to a one time 
pass code; and
a further search of their records doesnt support that Mr W spoke to Santander prior 
to the default.
As neither party has provided any materially new information or comments before the 
deadline that I set - I see no fair or reasonable decision to deviate from my intended findings.
Ive included relevant extracts from that provisional decision below as they form part of this, 
my final decision:
Mr Ws account
Its clear from Mr Ws account history that up until January 2020 his account was generally in
good standing and he paid on time. Its also clear that around the time the issues this
complaint concerns arose, he was using the credit card account primarily for paying for
travel costs to the UK and occasional transactions whilst in the UK.
The standing order
A large part of Mr Ws complaint is that he believed he had a standing order in place to pay
in £50 per month to this account. Hes referred to a conversation in branch in January 2020
where he clarified this was the case:
I also checked at the same time that my Standing Order of $50.00 per month would
continue while I was away  just as I had done before.. I asked the teller at the
counter to continue the Standing Order, which I was told they would.
But the evidence shows that this was set up (most recently) for 6 months, with the last
payment being made in January 2020. Santanders system hasnt shown any record of a
conversation about this issue when Mr W was in branch on 4 January 2020. But then again,
I wouldnt expect every detail of each conversation to be recorded.
On balance, I havent seen sufficient supporting evidence to fairly conclude that Santander
made an error here.
Mr Ws access to his account
As Mr W was generally aboard for 3 months at a time, its reasonable to assume he primarily
relied on online banking to monitor his account. Mr W has told us (but not elaborated on) that
due to issues with the USA mobile number he had linked to this account being reallocated -
due to a longer than expected UK visit, he was unable to access this account online. Ive
noted that the current number we hold on file for Mr W wasnt added to his Santander
account until 1 February 2021.
No details have been provided as to when specifically Mr W realised he had access issues.
But hes told us:I called Santander many times [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] to check
on my account, and was told that I couldnt sort it out over the phone, and the only
way to re-instate the online service was to visit a branch in UK.
I explained that I was stuck in America, and they said they couldnt help me and had
no suggestions as to how I should proceed
No evidence has been provided by Mr W of when and from which number he called
Santander - that would allow them to check their system for contact. From Santanders
website, its suggested that there may have been a workaround even if Mr Ws mobile
number had changed, he was unable to log in to update it and was also abroad:
Ive also kept in mind that although Mr W was abroad for longer than expected due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, a reasonable amount of responsibility still lay with him to monitor his
account for important information. Hes told us he had opted to received statements by post
to a family members address. It wouldnt be unreasonable to have either asked that family
member to forward the post or consider opening it and share the details with Mr W (with his
permission given what Mr W has told us about that family members personal
circumstances) periodically.
Santander have provided evidence that Mr W was able to log in online prior to the default
being recorded. Mr W disputes this and says this wouldve been whilst he was on a call with
Santander.
Santander awarded Mr W £20 compensation for customer service issues and based on what
Ive seen that appears to be fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Summary
Im not persuaded that that Mr W took reasonable steps here to monitor his account - or that 
he took the necessary steps to gain access to his online account when he realised there was 
a problem accessing it.
Santander have an obligation and duty as a responsible financial institution to accurately
report a fair and accurate picture of Mr Ws accounts to the relevant credit reference
agencies. 
I find that Santander havent acted unfairly or unreasonably when reporting a default on this 
account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman