DRN-3068482
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund him in a dispute over a 
transaction on his debit card. Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, is a joint complainant as the bank account 
concerned is in her name too. However, Ive referred to Mr B throughout this decision as he 
is the person whose card was used to make the initial payments.
What happened
The essential facts are well known to all parties so I will summarise only briefly here.
Mr B booked a holiday with a holiday company I will call T which went into liquidation in 
September 2019. He paid T a total of £6,716 for a holiday to the USA. The price was split 
between a package of flights and accommodation, costing £3,585, and tickets for excursions 
and venues costing £3,131. These tickets were to be booked by T with a separate company, 
A. All payments were made on Mr Bs debit card attached to his Barclays bank account, in 
June 2019.
When T went bust prior to the holiday taking place, Mr B made a claim on the ATOL 
protection in place for the flights and accommodation included with his booking. This 
resulted in him being refunded the amounts he had paid for the flights and accommodation.
Mr B was advised by the company which processed his ATOL claim that he would need to 
contact his bank about the remaining £3,131. Mr B contacted Barclays, which referred him 
back to ATOL. The claims company emailed Mr B on 20 February 2020 to explain again that 
he needed to contact his bank and that he would not receive a refund of the £3,131 from 
ATOL. 
In the meantime, Mr B had complained to Barclays about its refusal to get involved. It 
appears the bank originally repeated to Mr B that he needed to go back to ATOL, but later 
accepted that the excursion and venue tickets were not covered by ATOL and that it should 
look into the matter for him under the chargeback scheme. Mr B was paid £150 
compensation for poor customer service and Barclays attempted to charge back the £3,131 
late in February 2020. It temporarily credited the amount to Mr Bs account, with a warning 
that this could be taken back if the chargeback was unsuccessful.
On 10 March 2020 the chargeback was disputed by Ts bank. It said Mr B could still use the 
tickets provided by A, who were still trading. So it said there were no grounds to refund the 
£3,131 paid for the tickets. Barclays considered this and then wrote to Mr B on 19 March 
2020 to ask him for more information. It seems Mr B didnt reply to this letter and so Barclays 
decided that the chargeback had failed and it reversed the refund it had put into Mr Bs 
account.
Mr B referred the matter to this service for an independent review. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. He discovered that A had never been paid by T for the tickets, so 
in fact A would never have provided the tickets to Mr B, and Ts bank had therefore been 
wrong. Our investigator thought Barclays hadnt done enough to ascertain these facts as 
part of the dispute process. Because of this failing, the chargeback had been unsuccessful. 
The investigator recommended that Barclays refund the disputed amount of £3,131.
Mr B accepted this recommendation, but Barclays did not. In summary, the bank said it had 
handled the chargeback process properly and it had asked Mr B for further information but 
he had failed to provide it. It wasnt at fault for the chargeback failing.
Because no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to assist if something goes wrong with what theyve bought, via the dispute 
resolution scheme usually referred to as chargeback. This scheme is administered by the 
card network (i.e. VISA), which sets out the rules and parameters which determine what 
constitutes a successful chargeback. A typical scenario in which a chargeback may be 
attempted, is when goods or services have been paid for but not received.
While a consumer cannot insist that their bank attempts a chargeback, my view is that a 
bank should do so as a matter of good industry practice, if there is a reasonable prospect of 
the chargeback succeeding. A bank should also conduct the chargeback process in a 
competent way, avoiding errors and communicating in a clear and timely manner with its 
customers.
In this case, Barclays did attempt a chargeback, but it was disputed (defended) by Ts bank. 
This left Barclays with the option of dropping the chargeback or persevering with it further to 
a stage known as arbitration, where ultimately the card network could be asked to make a 
decision on the dispute. 
Ive considered what Barclays did after it received the chargeback defence. It sent Mr B a 
letter nine days later. I have read this letter. It refers to Barclays needing more information 
so we can start your dispute It then listed information it wanted Mr B to provide, which I 
think is worth reproducing in full:
What did you order and what did you actually received?
A copy of the courier receipt or any voucher that shows that the goods were returned 
to the Company, or an explanation as to how you have attempted to send the goods 
back.
Confirmation of the date the good(s)/service(s) were to be received or event 
attended.
A copy of the order invoice, any booking documentation or transaction receipt
An explanation of your attempts to resolve your dispute with the 
Company/Liquidators
The date in which you received the good(s)/services(s)
The letter said that if Mr B didnt respond within seven days Barclays would not continue with 
his dispute.Apart from the warning that Mr Bs dispute would be discontinued, I think the letter is most 
unclear and confusing. It didnt say what transaction or dispute it related to. It didnt set out 
what Ts bank had said in response to the chargeback. Most of the information it requested 
Mr B had already provided, and the rest of it was irrelevant (e.g. asking Mr B to show that he 
had tried to send the goods back). Bizarrely, about the only thing the letter didnt ask for 
was the information Barclays actually needed from Mr B: evidence that A would not be 
providing him with the tickets. The letter also appeared to suggest that Barclays had not yet 
begun the dispute process, which was incorrect. Ive seen no evidence Mr B responded to 
the letter, but given its content I think he could be forgiven for assuming it had been sent in 
error.
This letter, unfortunately, appears to have been a generic one. It would have been far more 
helpful if Barclays had explained to Mr B what Ts bank had said, and requested evidence to 
show that this was inaccurate. Given the amount at stake, I am also surprised that Barclays 
appears to have made no attempt to contact Mr B via other channels such as the telephone. 
When our investigator asked Mr B to provide evidence that A would not have provided the 
tickets, he was able to produce this the same day. Had Barclays been clearer in its 
communications with Mr B, I think it would have been able to obtain the evidence it needed 
to take his dispute further, and in good time to have done so. While I cant be sure how the 
card network would have decided an arbitration case, on the face of it Mr B had a clear case 
for a refund and I think it is likely the chargeback would ultimately have been successful.
Like our investigator, I think Barclays errors were responsible for the failure of the 
chargeback process to produce a successful outcome for Mr B. Hes lost out as a result. I 
think it would therefore be fair of the bank to treat Mr B as though the chargeback had 
ultimately been successful.  
Putting things right
Barclays must treat Mr B as though the chargeback had been successful. In particular, it 
must:
Reconstruct Mr Bs bank account as though it had never reversed the temporary 
credit of £3,131.
For the avoidance of doubt, this means that if the reversal of the temporary credit resulted in 
adverse financial consequences for Mr B or Mrs B then Barclays needs to take reasonable 
steps to correct these. This would include refunding any charges, fees or extra interest 
caused by the reversal, and correcting any negative credit file reporting.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint, and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman