DRN-4169567
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs K holds with UBS AG. The mortgage was taken 
out in 2014 on UBS recommendation and was due to be repaid in 2019. It had a facility 
limit of £7.5m, with an option to draw funds in a foreign currency. In Mrs Ks case, the 
funds were drawn in US Dollars (USD).
The complaint was brought to us under cover of a letter from Mrs Ks solicitors, dated 
21 March 2022. That letter specifies three broad complaint points; which I summarise 
below.
UBS converted the mortgage back to Sterling when it was not entitled to do so.
UBS refused to accept it wasnt entitled to convert the mortgage back to Sterling and 
shifted its position on three occasions to justify the conversion to Sterling.
If, contrary to Mrs Ks primary position, UBS was entitled to recover foreign currency 
losses from her, this was not set out in the mortgage documentation, and Mrs K wasnt 
told it could happen.
Mrs K is also unhappy about the sale of an investment vehicle, which she says caused 
her to incur significant financial losses. Weve set up a separate complaint to address that; 
in order that there should be no ambiguity, this decision deals solely with the mortgage 
complaint. Where I refer to the investment vehicle, it is for context only.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 15 May 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the 
evidence in the case is detailed, running to nearly 1,000 pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that there are also a lot of duplicated documents 
and repetition of arguments. 
In what follows, I have set out events in rather less detail than they have been 
presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service 
we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This 
approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and 
not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my 
opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader 
outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs K being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own 
words (and rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mrs K took the mortgage out in September 2014, drawing it in USD. It was an 
interest-only mortgage, and at the time of taking it out Mrs K indicated that her 
strategy for repaying the capital was by either the sale of the mortgaged property, 
the sale of easy to liquidate assets or surplus income. The due date for repaying 
the capital was 29 September 2019. Although drawn in USD, the maximum debt 
facility under the mortgage (Ill refer to it from here as the Limit) was specified as 
£7.5m, and the offer included a suggestion that Mrs K keep a minimum of £750,000 
headroom (i.e. not draw more than £6.75m) to reduce the risk of the Limit being 
exceeded due to currency fluctuations.
In September 2015, Mrs K took out the investment vehicle that is the subject of the 
separate complaint. As I understand it, Mrs K has said that some of the losses she 
incurred from that vehicle became part of the mortgage balance. 
In February 2019, UBS wrote to Mrs K saying it was would not be renewing the 
mortgage facility, and she needed to make arrangements to repay it in full by 29 
September 2019. Subsequent letters were sent, reiterating this message. In August 
2019, at which time the account balance was over the Limit, Mrs Ks husband 
notified UBS that Mrs K was unwell, and unable to deal with matters herself. He set 
about obtaining Power of Attorney (POA) to act for her; he also made a number of 
payments into the mortgage account to restore the balance within the Limit.
On 19 September 2019, with the mortgage expiry date now imminent, UBS wrote 
setting out its intention to convert the USD balance back to Sterling if the mortgage 
wasnt repaid in full and on time. Mr K, whose POA became effective on 
26 September 2019, asked it not to do that. On 30 September 2019, the day after 
the mortgage should have been repaid, UBS converted the mortgage balance back 
to Sterling. This created a Sterling balance outstanding of just under £7.9M, less 
around £422,000 in credits made by Mr K which reduced this to around £7.46m. 
Mr K emailed the bank on 7 October 2019 to protest the banks action, although he 
said he didnt want this to be treated as a complaint. Discussions took place 
between UBS and Mr K throughout 2020, as part of which the bank agreed six 
months forbearance to allow a re-financing to take place. Then the pandemic 
intervened; no further progress was made in re-financing the mortgage to a new 
lender, but £250,000 was credited to the account in November 2020.
In April 2021, Mr K wrote on Mrs Ks behalf to challenge UBS actions in converting 
the mortgage to Sterling. He referenced the section of the mortgage conditions UBS 
had relied on, suggesting they allowed for payment to be made within one calendar 
month of being requested. On 5 May 2021, UBS issued a demand letter for the full 
debt. The following day, it appointed Law of Property Act Receivers (LPARs) to take 
charge of the mortgaged property. On 14 May 2021, a firm of solicitors (Ill refer to 
this firm as S) acting for UBS wrote to Mrs K reinforcing the reasons for the 
decision to convert the mortgage to Sterling.
On 16 July 2021, a firm of solicitors (Ill refer to this firm as M) acting for Mrs K 
wrote to S setting out a detailed legal challenge to UBS justification of the 
conversion to Sterling.  In that letter, M also said that Mrs K was still progressing 
her efforts to re-finance the mortgage, but was being hindered from doing so by the 
dispute over how much she should reasonably be expected to repay to UBS. 
Although not formally treated as a complaint at the time  for example, no referral 
rights to this service were given by UBS or S in any of the correspondence that followed  Mr Ks letter from April 2021 was an expression of dissatisfaction, 
sufficient to meet the definition of a complaint in our rules. The effect of that is 
two-fold; first, once eight weeks had passed from UBS receiving Mr Ks letter 
without referral rights to this service being provided, we would have jurisdiction to 
consider it in the event a complaint was referred to us. Second, any responses that 
were then issued, whether by UBS directly or by S on UBS behalf, to either Mrs K 
directly or M on her behalf, right up the point the complaint was referred to this 
service, constitute complaint handling. Ill come back to the latter point later in this 
decision.
S response to Ms legal challenge was similarly detailed; it rejected all of Ms 
arguments as to why UBS hadnt been entitled to carry out the currency conversion, 
and additional grounds were given as to why it considered the banks actions to 
have been permissible, over and above those UBS had cited at the time. It also 
said that even if the conversation wasnt legitimate and hadnt taken place, the 
financial impact on Mrs K would have been the same. Thats because other 
provisions in the terms of the mortgage would have allowed it to recover any costs, 
loss or liability arising from Mrs Ks failure to repay the mortgage when due.
There then followed an extensive exchange of views between M and S, each 
arguing its position in ever more forensic detail, without any movement or 
concession from either side. In March 2022, M referred Mrs Ks complaint to this 
service.
It was looked at by one of our investigators, who wasnt persuaded it should be 
upheld. Meanwhile, UBS made a settlement proposal whereby the mortgage could 
be converted back to USD at the same change rate that had been used on 30 
September 2019. 
Bearing in mind the movement in exchange rates since September 2019, UBS says 
this would allow Mrs K the opportunity to redeem the mortgage on terms that 
removed the detriment she was claiming to have suffered as a result of the original 
conversion to Sterling. There were certain caveats to the proposal; legal fees, costs 
and LPAR fees incurred since September 2019 would remain, and the interest 
charged in the interim would not be converted, as this would be disadvantageous to 
Mrs K.
On Mrs Ks behalf, M asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. At the 
same time, M asked that the matter be the subject of a hearing, due to what it 
perceived as the complexity of the case. When the case came to me, I considered 
the hearing request first, and wrote to M explaining why I didnt consider this was 
necessary and that I was satisfied I could determine the case fairly on the basis of 
the written evidence from both sides. I also gave M the opportunity to make a 
further submission, either in writing or orally over the phone to the investigator; K 
chose the former.
In the final submission, K updated us on, and complained about, what had 
happened since the complaint was referred to this service. In broad terms, Mrs K 
had succeeded in re-financing the debt in March 2023, against the backdrop of 
possession proceedings instigated by S on behalf of UBS, but was unhappy at the 
addition of over £263,000 of costs to the redemption balance. The bulk of these 
costs were made up of LPAR fees and S own legal costs, which included those 
costs incurred representing UBS in the complaint to this service.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil 
cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, and decide how much 
weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual 
documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on 
the whole picture. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual 
question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
In reaching my decision, I will have regard for the law and good industry practice 
where relevant, but my overarching responsibility is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. That can sometime mean reaching a different 
outcome from what might prevail in court.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA); nor are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute 
resolution body; an informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their 
customer to resolve their differences. We deal with individual disputes  when were 
able to  subject to rules laid down by the FCA (which are known as the DISP Rules). 
The DISP rules say, amongst other things, that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can only consider a complaint after the business against which it has been made has 
first been given the opportunity to investigate and respond to it. The subject matter of 
Ms most recent submission wasnt part of the complaint that was referred to us in 
March 2022; indeed much of it hadnt even happened when the case came to us. So 
the latest submission needs to be referred to UBS to give the business the 
opportunity to respond first. 
Ive arranged for our investigator to pass Ms letter of 5 May 2023  and the 
accompanying 92-page Exhibit 4  to UBS under cover of a new complaint reference. 
UBS will then have eight weeks to respond to the issues raised in the new complaint, 
and if Mrs K or M on her behalf remain dissatisfied, they can ask that we take it 
forward separately at that point. In the meantime, my focus here is on expediting the 
original complaint about the currency conversion.
Ive considered everything that both parties have said and provided; having done so 
Im not persuaded the underlying dispute is quite as complex as it has been made to 
look. Ill explain why.As summarised in the introduction, there are three broad elements to the case; Ill 
address them in turn.
UBS converted the mortgage back to Sterling when not entitled to do so.
This is the very nub of the dispute. The gist of Ms argument is that for UBS to be 
entitled to convert the mortgage back to Sterling, the mortgage terms and 
conditions required two qualifying criteria; not one or other of two, but both. These 
criteria derive cumulatively from sections 9.6 (headed Compulsory repayment) 
and 8.4 (headed Compulsory Conversion) of the mortgage contract. In laymans 
terms, to trigger UBS right to convert Mrs K needed to have failed to pay money 
demanded by UBS when due, and her outstanding balance needed to be in excess 
of the Limit. 
The two firms of solicitors have argued in detail about which clauses in the contract 
apply, and how they should be interpreted. Looking at the matter in terms of what is 
fair and reasonable, as Im required to do, I consider that the first qualifying criterion 
can be deemed as having been met when Mrs K didnt repay the mortgage debt in 
full on or before 29 September 2019. Having given the matter a great deal of 
thought, Ive reached the same conclusion regarding the second qualifying criterion; 
heres why.
M has pointed out that whilst the account had been over the Limit during August 
and September 2019, it was not over limit when UBS carried out the conversion, 
largely due the efforts of Mr K to pay sums into the account to bring it back within 
the Limit. Thats fine as far as it goes, at least in the period immediately preceding 
29 September 2019. But what neither M nor S appears to have appreciated is when 
the mortgage expired on 29 September 2019. the Limit expired too, and became 
zero. Therefore, once 29 September 2019 passed without the mortgage being 
repaid, Mrs K was over the Limit by the amount of the entire debt, not just by any 
amount over £7.5m. 
The other thing that expired on 29 September 2019 was any right Mrs K may have 
had under the contract to repay the mortgage on the date of her choosing to 
optimise exchange rates. So I dont agree with M that UBS actions deprived her of 
such an opportunity.
In his initial complaint of April 2021, Mr K referenced the provision for payments to 
be made within one calendar month of falling due. Thats covered in section 23 
(headed WHEN CAN WE REQUIRE YOU TO REPAY THE MORTGAGE DEBT IN 
FULL?) of the mortgage conditions, but is subject to payment not being made 
under section 9.1. Section 9.1 states that, without prejudice to section 23, all sums 
drawn and outstanding under a fixed term loan (which is what Mrs K had) must be 
repaid by the fixed term loan repayment date. That was 29 September 2019. I think 
the point is moot in any event. Mrs K didnt repay the mortgage by 30 October 
2019, and theres nothing in the evidence before me from either side that would 
cause me to think she could have done.
Putting all of the above together, I find the more persuasive argument to be that on 
30 September 2019 UBS could fairly and reasonably convert the mortgage to 
Sterling.
UBS refused to accept it wasnt entitled to convert the mortgage back to Sterling 
and shifted its position on three occasions to justify the conversion to Sterling.This element of Mrs Ks complaint is about how S, on UBS behalf, responded to 
Ms correspondence; in particular, M is unhappy that S kept changing the nature of 
the defence of UBS position and bringing new arguments into play to justify its 
actions. 
As I outlined earlier, all of these exchanges were part of how S, on UBS behalf, 
handled Mrs Ks complaint. The problem there is that were not free to consider every 
complaint we receive. DISP 2.3.1 sets out the activities we can consider. The relevant 
activities in this case are regulated activities, as stated in DISP 2.3.1 (1). Complaint-
handling is not a regulated activity in its own right. 
The DISP rules at 2.3.1 say that we can consider complaints about:
regulated activities; 
payment services; 
lending money; 
paying money by plastic card; and 
ancillary banking services.
In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in 
connection with the above, such as advice, payment processing or account 
administration. However, complaint-handling is not a regulated activity, and isnt 
ancillary to a regulated activity. What that means is when a complaint (or, as here, 
part of a complaint) is about how the underlying complaint was handled, our rules 
dont allow me to look into that.
If, contrary to Mrs Ks primary position, UBS was entitled to recover foreign 
currency losses, this was not set out in the mortgage documentation, and Mrs K 
wasnt told it could happen.
This is a reference to one of the additional arguments made by S, on UBS behalf, in 
its exchanges with M. In simple terms, UBS had said that even if it hadnt converted 
the mortgage to Sterling, and a currency loss had then occurred, it could recover it 
from Mrs K in any event, under separate contract provisions, set out in Sections 25 
(Headed OUR EXPENSES) and 26 (headed LOSSES ON BREACH OF 
CONDITIONS) of the mortgage contract.
Ive said in the preceding section that I have no jurisdiction to consider whether it was 
fair of S to introduce new strands to its defence of UBS position during the 
complaint-handling process. However, I dont think this prevents me from addressing 
this element of the complaint. Thats because whilst clearly UBS has stated its 
opinion that it could do so, Im not convinced it has actually attempted to recover a 
foreign currency loss from Mrs K under the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
It seems to me that what UBS has done is exercise its right under Sections 9.6 and 
8.4 of the terms and conditions to convert the mortgage to Sterling, in order to protect 
against the risk of a foreign currency loss arising. That being the case, this element of 
the complaint doesnt turn on what the terms and conditions say or dont say about 
the right to recover foreign currency losses. Rather, it turns on whether a desire on 
UBS part to try to reduce the risk of a foreign currency loss happening justified its 
decision to convert the mortgage to Sterling.Thats a question of commercial judgement on UBS part, and generally speaking, we 
dont usually interfere in how a business exercises its discretion in commercial 
matters. I can do so, but only if I think a business exercised its judgement unfairly. 
Everything has a context, and here, I think its relevant to keep various points in mind.
 
Firstly, from February 2019 onwards, so for seven months before the expiry of the 
mortgage, UBS had made sure Mrs K knew she was expected to repay it in full and 
on time. Yet, it was only in August 2019 that Mr K intervened by letting UBS know 
Mrs K was unwell and unable to deal with the matter, and that he would be making 
arrangements to act in her place. The time UBS took to deal with the administration of 
the POA notwithstanding, it seems to me that Mr K might have begun that process 
much sooner than he did.
Throughout that period, the mortgage operated close to, and occasionally over, the 
Limit, and whilst Mr K did take steps to try to mitigate the excesses, nothing in the 
evidence Ive been asked to consider would have given UBS any reason to be 
confident that the mortgage balance would be repaid when due.
Overall, taking all of those factors into account, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
UBS to take the view that there was a risk of a currency loss on Mrs Ks mortgage, 
and to take the steps it took to mitigate that risk, once the mortgage term had expired 
and the qualifying criteria for conversion to Sterling had been met.
For completeness, Im not persuaded that the dispute should have prevented Mrs K 
from paying the mortgage off sooner than she did. Yes, the final balance owing was 
subject to variation depending on the outcome of the complaint. But as more recent 
events have demonstrated, Mrs K could settle the mortgage by paying UBS what it 
has asked for, on the understanding that money may then be due back to her 
following the outcome of the complaint. There may be other reasons Mrs K didnt 
repay the mortgage sooner than she did, but I dont consider the existence of the 
complaint should reasonably and fairly be one of them.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from its submissions the intensity with which 
M has brought the complaint. It sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything the 
bank has done (or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular 
viewpoint, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies 
and/or anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look 
at things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on 
the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, for all the reasons Ive set 
out, I cant find in Mrs Ks favour. 
I will however make a further observation. Theres more (and sometimes less) to 
complaint resolution than simply deciding whos right or whos wrong. Its not just 
about winning the argument; sometimes its about compromising to reach a fair 
conclusion. Theres a possibility that this case might go to court, if Mrs K ultimately 
rejects my final decision. And if that happens, then subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mrs Ks recourse to a legal remedy of her own against UBS over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by 
our consideration of it.
However, there may be another way. Its not for me to advise either party in this 
dispute on what to do next. But it occurs to me that what might be needed here is for 
lender and borrower (or their legal representatives if preferred) to get together, 
without any recrimination over what has gone before, and hold a meaningful dialogue 
about how to find a resolution that both can live with. I think UBS attempted to go 
down that route, with the proposal it made last year, to reconvert the mortgage to 
USD using the exchange rate from 30 September 2019. 
Events have now overtaken that offer, but there is still an opportunity now for the 
parties to start again in a less confrontational manner that has been displayed thus 
far, with a view to trying to reach an agreement and avoid litigation. Its up to the 
parties whether they take it or not. I hope they do; in my view, this is not a dispute 
that turns on a point of law.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; that 
time has now passed, and weve heard from both.
On behalf of UBS, S accepted the provisional decision without further comment. M, on 
behalf of Mrs K, made a further submission, the main points of which I summarise below.
What I have described as the first qualifying criterion for currency conversion isnt met 
simply by a failure to pay any sum that is due. It must be a specific sum due under 
section 9.6 of the mortgage terms and demanded under section 9.6.1, which doesnt 
include repayment of the mortgage debt by the repayment date. For the mortgage 
contract to mean what I have taken it to mean would require it to contain additional 
provisions in sections 9.3 and/or 23.
What I have described as the second qualifying criterion for currency conversion - the 
account being over limit  is actually the first criterion, and the failure to pay it when 
demanded is the second. Also, the limit is a defined term in the mortgage offer (at any 
time) and so doesnt go to zero simply because the mortgage term has expired. The offer 
has priority over the terms and conditions.
Mrs Ks position isnt that she was entitled to repay the debt on a date of her choosing, 
rather that she was entitled to convert the debt into Sterling on a date of her choosing.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. But I will 
respond to the further points M has raised on Mrs Ks behalf.
M has acknowledged that my over-arching obligation is to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. In doing so, it has expressed the view that it is fair that the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage contract be interpreted according to their terms, at the very 
least. The alternative would be, says M, would be to apply contra proferentum, by 
construing any ambiguity in Mrs Ks favour, given that UBS drafted the contract.Ive thought very hard about that, and whilst the notion has superficial appeal (to coin Ms 
own phrase) its important to keep in mind that that the very nature of such matters is that 
contract terms can and will be interpreted differently by different parties. If M contends that 
the outcome of this dispute turns on a strict legal interpretation of the mortgage terms and 
conditions, then it may well be that a court is the proper forum for this dispute to be 
determined. But the Financial Ombudsman Service is not an alternative court; it is an 
alternative to a court. 
Taking the approach the rules of the ombudsman scheme require me to take, my view has 
to be that the outcome turns not on whether UBS actions were strictly in accordance with 
the contract (albeit Ive explained why I think they can be deemed to have been) but whether 
they amounted to unfair treatment. I come back to the observations I made in the provisional 
decision about the circumstances and context that sat behind the decision to carry out the 
currency conversion. 
Mrs K had known since February 2019 that UBS required repayment in full by the due date, 
despite which it was only in August 2019 that Mr K contacted UBS on her behalf. Nothing 
Mrs K had done before then, and nothing Mr K did between then and the mortgage end date 
would have given UBS any confidence that the debt was likely to be repaid when due. 
Rather, the absence of any credible intent to repay caused UBS to fear the risk of a currency 
loss, and to act to mitigate that risk. As for Ms point about five days grace, I consider that 
moot, for the reasons already given in the provisional decision extract above.
Lastly, on the subject of circumstances and context, its worth keeping in mind that by the 
time of the events giving rise to the complaint, the underlying contract M seeks to rely on 
had, in any event, run its course and Mrs K had not adhered to it. With that in mind, and 
aside from anything else, Im not sure theres a distinction to be made between Mrs K 
wanting the right to convert the debt to Sterling on the date of her choosing as opposed to 
repaying the debt on the debt of her choosing. In my view, she fairly and reasonably lost the 
right to both when the contract expired on 29 September 2019.
My final decision
Put all of the above together, and I dont find that UBSs actions in converting Mrs Ks 
mortgage balance from USD to Sterling amount to unfair treatment. Therefore, my decision 
is as follows:
I dont uphold part one of the complaint;
I have no power under our rules to consider part two of the complaint; and
I dont uphold part three of the complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman