DRN-3502349
The complaint
Mrs M complained about damage caused by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) during a home 
emergency visit and delays in providing its service under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M couldnt unlock her front door to exit her house so made a claim on her policy. UKI 
confirmed an engineer would attend in four hours to resolve the issue, but unfortunately this 
was delayed by two hours.
Mrs M complained as she didnt think the engineer was professional and she said the 
engineer commented he was having a bad day. She felt she experienced the worst of this 
in the work he carried out trying to force open her front door. Mrs M didnt think the engineer 
went about his work carefully enough and tried to minimise the mess and damage to her 
property. As a result of the engineer using force with a crowbar, she feels there is excessive 
damage to her door, door frame and surrounding plaster. She wants her door and door 
frame replaced as a result at a quoted cost of £1,826.
UKI said any damage caused as a result of carrying out our Home Emergency assistance is 
not covered under the policy and therefore correctly declined in-line with the Terms and 
Conditions of your policy. It said the damage during the process was caused due to the 
hinges being deep. However, UKI did offer £75 of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the overall service during the day.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought there was evidence the door 
couldve been removed without being damaged, leaving only minimal damage to the wall 
around the hinges. So, he thought UKI should replace the door and door frame. He also 
increased the compensation to £200 for distress and inconvenience. UKI agreed with the 
additional compensation, but disagreed with replacing the door and door frame, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 26 May 2022. I said:
UKI said it didnt need to pay for a new door and door frame as the terms and conditions of 
the policy show any damage caused from its home emergency assistance isnt covered by 
the policy. I have checked this, and this is correct. However, Mrs M said the work carried out 
wasnt done properly. If it can be shown, the work carried out by UKIs engineer was sub-
standard then I dont think it would be fair to apply this policy clause in these circumstances 
 as UKI should be carrying out their work to a reasonable standard.
It would be useful to have access to expert reports to evidence why the work was done 
properly or why it wasnt. Unfortunately, in this complaint, I only have the testimonies provide 
by Mrs M and UKI and photographs of the damage to the door and the frame.
From the photographs I can see there is damage, the door no longer closes to provide an 
air-tight seal, so its likely a draft can get through the door. There are also numerous chips 
on the door and frame which Mrs M said was caused by the engineer using an unprotected 
crowbar. This makes the door look untidy. Theres also damage around the plaster and 
hinges. Its difficult to determine what is reasonable damage to the door for this kind of 
operation/entry - I think this probably depends on how difficult the door was to open. So, the 
photos on their own doesnt provide conclusive evidence that excessive force was used.
However, I can see that Mrs M made a call to UKI whilst the engineer was trying to open the 
door and she raised concerns about how this was being done. I find this quite persuasive, as 
I think it shows the concern Mrs M had at the time about the professionalism of engineer and 
his approach to the work. I think it also reflects unfavourably on the engineers whole 
approach to providing the customer with a service. Mrs M also described what happened. 
Mrs M said the engineer (who she thought was unprofessional) had tried unsuccessfully for 
around 45 minutes to open the door by forcing it with an unprotected crowbar, causing most 
of the damage. Mrs M mentioned the engineers colleague was unable to help as he was ill 
in the van. So, another engineer was despatched, when two engineers worked together Mrs 
M said they managed to open the door within about 10 minutes using a different approach 
through forcing the hinges. I think this suggests this method should have been used initially 
and this may have minimised the damage.
I cant say exactly what has happened here, so I need to consider whether I think its more 
likely excessive force caused the damage or whether I think the damage is normal for this 
kind of operation. I think its likely that some of the damage caused when trying to open a 
door without a key is unavoidable and I also think the damage caused will vary depending on 
how difficult it is to open the door. So, Im not surprised there is some damage, and the 
policy wouldnt reasonably cover this.
However, Im persuaded by Mrs Ms actions and testimony that the damage to the door 
couldve been more extensive due to either the use of excessive force or incorrect 
methodology. And I dont think UKI have provided a reasonable argument to defend the 
widespread damage or explain why a second engineer was required. So, I dont think its fair 
if UKI dont cover part of this damage caused. Therefore, I do uphold this complaint.
However, as I think there would be a reasonable level of damage in this situation even if the 
job was done correctly, I dont think its reasonable to expect UKI to pay the full cost of the 
door and frame. So, I intend that a fair contribution for the door by UKI would be a payment 
of 50% towards the quoted cost (£913). 
UKI has already accepted the increased compensation of £200 - I think this this is fair for the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs M has suffered for the delays, unprofessional manner of its 
engineer and the inconvenience of getting her door replaced before Winter. So, I also intend 
to award £200 compensation (which includes the £75 already offered). 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision  she wants UKI to cover the full cost of the 
door. She said since my decision, she has made enquiries with local reputable locksmiths. 
She said the locksmiths assured me that a crowbar would never be used on a UPVC door 
and that there are many other methods including using airbags or removing the door 
handle/lock barrel to attempt entry.Mrs M re-stated some of the points she made before, such as the incorrect methodology 
was used to open the door and the crowbar used was unprotected. She felt I had missed 
some points out of my report.
She said UKI had made decisions on her complaint without visiting her property to see the 
extent of the damage.
Mrs M said the locksmith boasted openly to me about being an expert in breaking and 
entering for bailiffs, often requiring him to wear a stab vest, and so I feel his priority was to 
get the door open with force without regard for my property. Mrs M said the locksmith had 
told her he was having a bad day.
Mrs M said I also want to reiterate that the engineer did not explain what he was going to do 
and that it could cause damage. Having never had need for a locksmith before I was 
shocked that he entered carrying a crowbar and set about the door with it. The only time he
mentioned damage was in talking about taking the door off at the hinges, that damage to
the plaster would be necessary because of the deep hinges. She said she was asked to 
sign a disclaimer for the damage caused and she refused to. She said despite my refusal to
sign such a disclaimer the work continued regardless, and the damage made worse.
UKI didnt accept my provisional decision. UKI made the same points as it had before, but 
for completeness it said the engineer used the crowbar in order to remove the door from its 
hinges and enact the repair to resolve the customer's emergency. In the photos I have 
attached, it is visible that the door hinges are deep, and buried into the brickwork. For this 
reason, the only viable option for resolving the customer's issue with minimal damage 
(without going from the front and breaking glass) was to use the crowbar to unjam the
gearbox and allow the engineer to remove the hinges. Therefore, the contractor took the 
necessary steps to resolve the emergency and reasonably attempted to minimise damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs M may have felt I didnt consider some of the points she made. However, I 
was aware of these points when making my decision but focused my narrative on those 
points most relevant in me reaching my conclusion. 
For me to change my decision, I would need to see new evidence that I didnt consider 
before. I understand Mrs M says she has spoken to local locksmiths. However, neither party 
has provided independent expert reports to support their accounts. Therefore, I have 
weighed up the evidence which is available  which is the contradicting testimonies by each 
party and the photographs of the damage. I decided based on what I think is most likely to 
have happened. But, I havent seen any new evidence that changes what I wrote in my 
provisional decision.
As I said in my provisional decision Im persuaded by Mrs Ms actions and testimony that 
the damage to the door couldve been more extensive due to either the use of excessive 
force or incorrect methodology. And I dont think UKI have provided a reasonable argument 
to defend the widespread damage or explain why a second engineer was required. So, I 
dont think its fair if UKI dont cover part of this damage caused. Therefore, I do uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M:
£913  for 50% contribution towards the cost of a new door and frame
£200  compensation for distress and inconvenience (less anything that UKI has 
already paid Mrs M.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman