DRN-3920696
The complaint
Mr D and Mr D complain about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limiteds actions when their 
car insurance policy was cancelled.
What happened
Mr D (son) had a car insurance policy underwritten by Aioi Nissay Dowa (AND). Mr D 
(father) was a named driver and paid the premiums from his bank account. 
The policy renewed in July 2022, but Mr D and Mr D say they had obtained cover elsewhere 
and didnt want the policy to renew.
Mr D (named driver) called AND  after the renewal date  to explain the situation and 
cancel the policy. AND then called the other Mr D (policyholder) and explained theyd need 
to pay cancellation fees and pay for time on cover if they cancelled. Mr D (policyholder) said 
theyd think about it and get back to AND.
Mr D (named driver) cancelled the direct debit set up to pay the premium but neither he nor 
Mr D (policyholder) contacted AND again. 
After trying to contact Mr D and Mr D to request payment, AND forcibly cancelled the policy, 
for non-payment. And they recorded the forcible cancellation on shared insurance industry 
databases.
AND also asked Mr D and Mr D to pay the outstanding cancellation charges and the 
premium for the time they were on cover up until the forced cancellation.
Mr D and Mr D objected to this and made a complaint to AND. And when AND maintained 
their position and said the forced cancellation would stand  as would the remaining amount 
owed  Mr D and Mr D brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought AND were entitled to charge a cancellation fee, 
given that the policy had legitimately renewed. Mr D has admitted that he may have 
mistakenly renewed the policy through the customer portal. 
He also thought they could charge for the time on cover, but only for 50% of the premium 
which had been due. This was because Mr D and Mr D had cover elsewhere and if any 
claim had been made in the relevant period (of dual cover), liability would have been split 
between the two insurers.
However, he thought it was unfair to record the forced cancellation on the relevant industry 
databases, given the confusion over the cancellation and the fact that it was clear Mr D and 
Mr D intended to cancel it after getting cover elsewhere.
AND didnt agree. They accepted that they should only charge 50% of the premium for the 
time on cover. But they thought they were right to record the forced cancellation on the 
shared databases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Mr D accepted our investigators view and have agreed to pay the outstanding 
charges he thought they should pay (amounting to £119.54). AND also agreed with the re-
calculation of the outstanding charges. So, the only remaining bone of contention in this 
case is whether AND should record the forced cancellation on the relevant shared industry 
databases.
So, the question I have to consider in making this decision is whether its fair that the record 
should remain on those databases. If it does, it would need to be declared to future insurers 
as part of the application process and it would very likely affect the potential insurers 
decision whether to offer cover  and if so, on what terms.
Theres no dispute here that the renewal was legitimate. Notification of renewal was sent in 
advance. Confirmation was sent just before the renewal date. AND were absolutely clear 
about what Mr D and Mr D would need to do if they didnt wish the policy to renew.
It was just more than a week after the renewal date that Mr D and Mr D made contact with 
AND to say they wished to cancel the policy. After the second telephone conversation that 
day (with Mr D, the policyholder), AND were expecting a return call to say whether Mr D and 
Mr D wanted to go ahead and cancel the policy. Theyve pointed out that once policyholders 
are made aware of the cancellation charges, they often reverse their decision to cancel.
Instead of contacting AND again, Mr D (named driver) cancelled the direct debit. This meant 
that AND couldnt take the premium payments for a policy which, as far as they were 
concerned, hadnt been cancelled at that point. Nor were they able to recover the remaining 
charges at the point of cancellation.
I have some sympathy with ANDs arguments here. Mr D and Mr D might be said to have 
buried their head in the sand  after promising to call AND back with a decision about the 
cancellation. At worst, they might be accused of attempting to avoid the legitimate 
cancellation fees (set out clearly in the policy) and the premium for the time on cover.
However, I think the latter interpretation of events might on balance be harsh. There was 
clearly some confusion about the outcome of the calls. 
Mr D and Mr D might reasonably say their intention to cancel had been clear  because that 
was the reason they called AND in the first place. And they might say that intention should 
have been even clearer to AND when the direct debit was cancelled. 
Its also true to say that AND checked whether Mr D and Mr D had other cover and found 
that they did. Again, it wouldnt be stretching the point to conclude from that evidence that 
Mr D and Mr D wanted to cancel their policy with AND.
AND did contact Mr D and Mr D after the call  by letter and email (followed up by a text 
message)  to say that the policy would be forcibly cancelled unless Mr D and Mr D 
contacted them. Those messages also pointed out the consequences of forced cancellation.
Mr D and Mr D were clearly taking a risk in not responding to those messages. And theres a 
reasonable line of argument to say they got what they asked for when the policy was forcibly 
cancelled. However, I do note that when Mr D (named driver) called AND to cancel the policy, they 
made contact with Mr D (policyholder) by phone. It wouldnt be unreasonable to suggest that 
before taking the final step of forced cancellation  despite having reasonable cause to 
believe that Mr D and Mr D wished to cancel the policy themselves  AND might have tried 
to call Mr D (policyholder).
Im also aware that weve now said  and AND have agreed  that they were chasing Mr D 
and Mr D for a payment which was more than they should have been seeking (given the 
dual cover). So, Mr D and Mr D may have had good cause to refuse the payment and 
complain to AND  and then to us  in order to resolve the matter fairly.
In short, this is finely balanced decision. Im assuming Mr D (policyholder) might have 
learned from this experience that ignoring communications from an insurer, presumably in 
the hope they might infer what his intentions were, is not a sensible option. 
And if I thought that, on balance, I could justifiably conclude with any certainty that Mr D and 
Mr D were attempting to avoid proper payment for a policy theyd failed to cancel before 
renewal, Id take a very different view on this case.
However, on balance, I think this state of affairs more likely arose because of the confusion 
about Mr D and Mr Ds intentions in the calls to AND. And possibly because Mr D and Mr D 
objected  rightly, as it turned out  to the charges AND were seeking to impose on 
cancellation of the policy.
I dont think it would be fair in all those circumstances to record a forced cancellation on the 
relevant insurance industry databases. That would have a significant affect on Mr Ds 
(policyholders) ability to obtain insurance  and/or the amount it would cost him  in future. 
And that would be disproportionate, given that his error here was to fail to make his intention 
to cancel the policy absolutely clear to AND.
Putting things right
For that reason, Im going to uphold the complaint in part.
As AND have now agreed  in response to our investigators view on the case  the 
outstanding amount owed for the time on cover is 50% of the amount they originally asked 
for, given that Mr D and Mr D were dual-insured at the relevant time.
Im also going to require AND to remove from any shared databases any record or indication 
that the policy was forcibly cancelled by them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint in part.
Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited must: 
reduce the outstanding payment theyre requesting from Mr D and Mr D to reflect the 
fact they were insured elsewhere (and so dual-insured) for the relevant time on cover 
after renewal; and
remove any record of a forced cancellation (and/or cancellation instigated by them) 
from any and all shared databases to which they added such a record after 
cancelling Mr D and Mr Ds policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman