DRN-3468009
The complaint
Mr Ws representative has complained, on his behalf, that CST Wealth Management Limited 
(CST) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension 
Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
On 11 August 2017, BSPS scheme benefit information was issued to Mr W, which detailed 6 
years, 2 months accrued service and a total pension at the date of leaving of £3,213 pa. The 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £61,749, guaranteed for three months.
A Personal Client Questionnaire was completed on 27 October 2017, which recorded the
following about Mr W:
He was 31 and married. Mrs W was aged 32.
Both Mr and Mrs W were in good health.
Mr W had an annual salary of £34,000 and Mrs W had an annual salary of
£24,000.
Mrs W had been a member of her own defined benefit scheme for 17 years.
Mr W was a member of the employers Group Personal Pension (GPP) with 10% 
employer and 6% employee contributions.
The joint main residence was valued at £125,000 with a £105,000 repayment 
mortgage outstanding.
An investment property was valued at £85,000, with an £84,000 interest only 
mortgage outstanding. This produced £396 pm rental income.
Mr and Mrs W had cash deposits of £2,500. 
A £15,000 loan, £20,000 hire purchase, and £6,000 on a credit card was outstanding.
Mr W had a moderately cautious attitude to risk.
Mr W wished to break all ties with his employer.
A major proportion of his overall pension benefits should be protected as far as
reasonably possible.
There was no need to maximise a lump sum at retirement.
Mr W anticipated retiring early and was willing to accept a lower pension.
He had no children and his wife would have the death in service benefit which was 
sufficient for her.
Lump sum death benefits werent a priority.
Mr W wished to maximise his benefits payable, as Mrs W had significant benefits in 
her own right.
A Pension Transfer Report was produced dated 12 November 2017 which detailed the 
following:
An estimated existing annual pension of £6,310 with a critical yield to match those 
scheme benefits of 5.08%, or a Pension Commencement Lump Sum of £29,067 and 
a reduced pension of £4,360 with a critical yield of 4.45% at age 65.
An estimated existing annual pension of £4,201 with a critical yield of 5.83%, or a
Pension Commencement Lump Sum of £20.529 and a reduced pension of £3,079 
with a critical yield of 5.09% at age 57.
A PPF estimated existing annual pension of £5,660.66 with a critical yield of 4.74%, 
or a Pension Commencement Lump Sum of £30,215.81 and a reduced pension of 
£4,532.37 with a critical yield of 4.56% at age 65.
A Pension Protection Fund (PPF) estimated existing annual pension of £4,077.63 
with a critical yield of 5.71%, or a Pension Commencement Lump Sum of 
£322,931.74 and a reduced pension of £3, 439.76 with a critical yield of 5.54% at age 
57.
A low to medium attitude to risk.
Assumed growth rates of 3% (Low), 5% (Mis) and 7% (High).
An annual PPP charge of 0.50%.
A single premium transfer charge of £1,250.
An ongoing RLP Governed Portfolio charge of 1%.
A Default Fund charge of 1%.
A Portfolio Fund Charge override of 1%.
A Risk Profile Report was dated 13 November 2017 which recorded Mr W as having a 
moderate/medium risk profile.
A Client Agreement was also produced on the same date, which set out a £1,250 monetaryinitial charge and an ongoing charge of 0.5% pa, with a minimum fee of £375. A Service 
Proposition document was also produced on the same date.
A Service Proposition for Investment & Insurance document was then created on 14 
November 2017, which detailed the following:
A 1% initial charge.
A 0.5% ongoing charge.
A PPP illustration and Key Facts Document was produced on 17 November 2017 which set 
out the following:
A transfer value of £61,748.
A prospective low growth rate of -0.7%, a medium growth rate of 2.2% and a high 
growth rate of 5.1% within the PPP.
The Governed Portfolio 4 investment fund would be used.
A total management charge of 0.5% pa.
A £1,250 transfer payment charge.
An ongoing charge of £31.25 per month.
On 22 November 2017, CST logged a file note which recorded the following:
Mr W wanted to move his pension away from the scheme and gain control, given the 
historic and current issues with the pension fund.
Mr W wanted to retire earlier than 65 and have a choice about how much he could 
withdraw.
Mr W wanted to retire at age 57.
Mr W did not want to move to the PPF and restrict his options to a set amount of 
income as well as incurring early retirement discounts in the BSPS 2.
Mr Ws Aviva fund would grow by at least 16% of annual salary and because of the 
benefits of salary sacrifice there were incentives to long term savings.
Mr W was aware that the current CETV may be the only opportunity to move the
capital under his control following receipt of the Time to Choose booklet.
A cash flow forecast presentation was produced in November 2017 and a Financial Planning 
Report was issued on 29 November 2017, which recommended that Mr W transfer his BSPS 
benefits to a PPP and invest within the Governed Portfolio 4.
Mr Ws objectives and considerations were further recorded as:
The option of early retirement.
To leave a legacy other than a return of contributions (£14,507) and a spousal
pension of 50%.
Sustainable but flexible income.
The option to use tax-free cash to repay mortgages without taking an income.
The income needs between retirement and the state pension were likely to be more 
than the BSPS would provide.
Break all ties with his employer.
Concerns about the pension being placed in the PPF.
The suitability report recorded that Mr W had a medium risk attitude and a medium 
capacity for loss.An updated TVAS was completed on 29 November 2017 which reflected the updated 
transfer value. The TVAS set out a critical yield of 4.97% based on a full pension at age 65 
and 4.35% based on a lump sum and reduced pension. At age 57, the critical yields were 
5.7% and 4.96% respectively.
Mr W accepted the recommendation and, on 5 December 2017, he signed the BSPS 
discharge forms and the PPP application form.
Mr W then raised a complaint, through his representative, about the suitability of the advice 
given to him. CST responded with its reasons for disagreeing and why it was satisfied that 
the advice he had received was suitable.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
At the time of the advice, Mr W had accrued over six years service within he BSPS 
and so it would have formed a significant part of his pension planning.
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 4.7% pa for retirement at age 65, and 4.65 to age 57. This 
compared to respective required critical yields to match the BSPS benefits at 65 of 
4.97%, and to match them at 57 of 5.7%. 
Given these figures, the opportunity to improve upon the scheme benefits was 
limited, especially given Mr Ws attitude to risk, and the suitability report also said that 
the critical yield was probably unachievable.
The suitability report set out critically yields of 4.35% and 4.96% pa for ages 65 and 
57 respectively, but this was on the basis of Mr W taking a tax fere lump sum. But 
although it was recorded that Mr W might use a lump sum to clear debts, maximising 
his tax free cash wasnt one of his priorities.
The file note of 22 November 2017 recorded Mr Ws risk attitude as being 
medium/high, but the TVAS noted it as being low to medium. The risk report 
recorded that Mr W had no investment experience, wasnt comfortable with investing, 
and that he had a medium attitude to risk. Mr Ws history was largely risk averse, 
and so the investigator considered that his risk attitude was closer to cautious than 
medium.The file note of 22 November 2017 recorded that CST had made Mr W aware that if 
he wanted a guaranteed income, he should remain within the BSPS. But CST should 
have properly assessed Mr Ws needs, and of particular importance to Mr W was 
knowing that he had a guaranteed rate of return rather than be uncertain about his 
pension benefits. Hed also said that he would rather put his money in deposits rather 
than invest in shares. Guarantees were therefore important to Mr W.
Mr W would in any case have a significant amount of risk based pension funds due to 
the 16% pa overall contribution into his defined contribution scheme. Transferring his 
guaranteed benefits therefore unnecessarily increased his overall risk exposure.
In terms of early retirement, Mr W was 31 at the time of the advice. He may have 
preferred to retire early, as many people would, but it was recorded that Mr and Mrs 
W wished to focus on building wealth, repaying their mortgages and planning to retire 
at 57/60. There was no defined or planned retirement age, and there was no need to 
transfer with some 26 years to go until the earliest envisaged retirement date. The 
PPP application form also recorded that Mr W wished to take retirement benefits at 
age 65, rather than 57.
As to the alternative death benefits, Mr W had pension benefits of her own, but she 
would also have benefited from the 50% spouses pension within the scheme in the 
event of Mr Ws death. A death in service lump sum benefit would also be payable. 
But the fact find in any case recorded that a lump sum death benefit wasnt a priority. 
And as funds were withdrawn to fund retirement, any such lump sum benefit would 
reduce accordingly.
If flexibility of income was a priority, Mr W could have relied on the funds produced by 
his defined contribution plan to achieve this. 
Mr W may have had concerns about the BSPS and his employer at the time, but the 
advice had been given in November 2017, when the details relating to the BSPS 2 
had been communicated to members. And so reassurances around this and the 
safety of his pension benefits could have been provided.
The investigator recommended that CST undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr W
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ws pension plan, but if 
this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr W, with a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr Ws representative agreed with the investigators findings, but said that he should be 
explicit about the assumption being in any redress calculation that Mr W would have retired 
at age 65.
CST didnt agree, however, saying the following in summary:
It had demonstrated to Mr Ws representative in its final response letter that the 
scheme benefits could be matched by income drawdown to age 785 (although I 
assume this is a typographical error).
It didnt consider that the facts supported the position that the BSPS benefits would 
constitute a significant percentage of his pension benefits.Mrs W wouldnt be dependent upon Mr Ws death benefits from the BSPS fund. She 
would have her own defined benefit pension, plus family legacies. But if the PPP was 
left untouched until Mr W was 82, then this would represent a significant lump sum 
for Mrs W and/or their children. Had Mrs W predeceased Mr W in retirement, then 
there would have been no benefits at all to the family.
The PPP had produced an annualised return of 9.9% before the advice, and so Mr W 
had more than a reasonable chance of beating the critical yield required to match the 
scheme benefits at age 57 or 65. That return was also four times CPI, with the latter 
in any case being capped for the purpose of revaluation of the scheme benefits.
It agreed that a transfer would be deemed unsuitable unless it could be 
demonstrated to be in a clients best interests, but as there wasnt a single aspect of 
the PPP which would result in Mr W being worse off, it must have been in his best 
interests. Mr W wouldnt be reliant upon the BSPS income and had capacity for loss 
on its capital value. He didnt need the frozen pension to meet his retirement 
objectives.
The DBAAT guidance said that a client may not be reliant on the scheme income if 
that same income could be produced by the PPP and that, with a sustainable 
withdrawal rate, and stress testing on returns, the pension funds would last beyond 
average life expectancy.
Although the investigator considered the opportunity to improve on the scheme 
benefits was limited, this wasnt borne out by the actual returns experienced within 
the PPP, at 7.87% pa, which had exceeded the discount rates and critical yields. Due 
to more recent financial conditions, the critical yield percentages will have reduced 
and equity markets had increased in value. This meant that Mr Ws PPP would be 
providing an all-time high rate of investment return. And as the revaluation of Mr 
Ws BSPS pension would be capped at 2.5%, the value of his BSPSP benefits would 
be reducing in real terms.
The investment outcome demonstrated that Mr W had more than a reasonable 
chance of improving on the scheme benefits, whilst retaining the flexibility of all 
options, including income drawdown, or buying an annuity in a higher interest rate 
climate in 34 years time.
If Mr W wished to use his capital to repay debt, then this was his prerogative  and 
they would in any case need to be repaid at some point, either by a lump sum or 
through monthly instalments from his pension income.
Mr W had indicated that he was a moderately cautious investor in the pension 
transfer questionnaire and the recommended portfolio was consistent with that.
The cashflow forecast took into account both Mr and Mrs Ws income, expenditure 
and asset wealth. The forecasts had been stress tested on 3% investment growth, an 
inflation rate of 2.5% and taking into account all tax and national insurance rates. 
From Mr Ws 57th birthday, Mr and Mrs W would be able to meet all of their needs 
from Mrs Ws defined benefit pension, Mr Ws defined contribution pension and their 
state pensions. They had no reliance on the BSPS pension.
As the BSPS pension wasnt required for income, the potential death benefits were 
likely to be in excess of £3m through the PPP arrangement when Mr W was 82. A 
whole of life policy for that amount had been discussed on the basis of affordability.At the time of the advice, it wasnt guaranteed that the BSPS 2 would go ahead. Mr 
W was faced with the decision that a transfer in 2017 may have been the only 
opportunity for him to gain control of his capital. And if the BSPS 2 did proceed, the 
booklet made it clear that any future transfer was likely to be lower in value.
In conclusion, CST said that the compelling reason for Mr W to transfer was his lack of 
reliance on the income which would be produced by the BSPS. Mr and Mrs Ws joint pension 
income at age 65, from just Mrs Ws pension and the state pensions, would be £53,000 pa 
and so Mr W would likely be receiving more income that he needed from the defined 
contributions plan.
It considered that the investigators main reasoning for upholding the complaint was that the 
growth rates were unlikely to be achieved, but they had been historically, and also had been 
since the transfer.
The cash flow modelling didnt show that certain objectives could be met  it demonstrated 
that all of the objectives could be met. And so the transfer was in Mr Ws best interest, CST 
concluded.
CST added to these points in a further submission, saying that there was no evidence that 
Mr W had suffered a financial loss in line with FG17/9. It also said that, in the event of Mr 
Ws death, the BSPS pension would cease, in contrast to the PPP which would provide a 
lump sum to his family.
The regulator had acknowledged that the critical yield was a blunt instrument and was 
flawed  and the discount rate was also not relevant as an indicator of the prospects of the 
critical yield being achieved, given that Mr W neither needed nor wanted a guaranteed 
income.
Given the beneficial characteristics of the PPP, and its alignment with his objectives, CST 
considered that, even if the advice had been to transfer into the BSPS 2, Mr W would 
nevertheless have proceeded to transfer. Mr W transferred on a fully informed basis.
CST also set out its position that, if the complaint was upheld, the PPF should be used as 
the comparator scheme in any compensation calculation. In support of this, it said that the 
BSPS didnt exist until the end of March 2018, and until that date it was only a proposal, with 
conditions needing to be met before its implementation. If members didnt make a decision, 
they would default into the PPF, CST added.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the investigator said that the complaint would be referred 
to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator then enquired of Mr Ws representative as to whether, if the complaint was 
upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, 
or to await the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
Mr Ws representative confirmed that he would like any redress to calculated on the existing 
basis.
The (new) investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses 
to use the calculator for non-scheme cases.The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Grove to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr W.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, they should let him
know by 12 June 2023.
In response, CST confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if an 
ombudsman upheld the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with many of the conclusions reached by the investigator, and 
for broadly the same reasons. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time CST advised Mr W were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like CST, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, CST 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ws 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of CSTs advice to Mr W in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
CSTs rationale for transferring
Mr W wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and CST was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, CST could be confident that he would be acting upon 
its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr W and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.As with the investigator, and as agreed by CST, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance 
was that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ws options was that a transfer 
would be unsuitable, unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests 
in order to meet specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr W would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
I think its fair to say that this represents a significant part of CSTs argument for the 
suitability of the advice  that there was a reasonable prospect of Mr W not only matching, 
but improving upon, the pension benefits Mr W would otherwise have received from the 
scheme. But also that it wasnt in any case envisaged that Mr W would need to rely upon the 
benefits produced by the BSPS pension. 
CST obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ws objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but I agree that they would 
nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible 
at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.7% pa, and to age 60 it was 4.6% pa. And the mid and high band growth 
rates used to illustrate the benefits which might be payable from a PPP were 2.2% pa and 
5.1% pa respectively.
The critical yields to age 65, at 4.97%, and to age 57, at 5.7% therefore exceeded both the 
discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same periods, and the mid growth 
rates used by the pension provider  the latter of which might perhaps be a reasonable 
assumption for a moderately cautious or medium risk investor.
In the suitability report, CST quoted the lower critical yields of 4.35% at age 65 if the tax free 
lump sum was taken, and 4.96% at age 57 on the same basis. Ive noted what it has said 
about the prospect of Mr W, as with most others, taking the tax free lump sum. And he may 
well have done so, as indicated by CST, perhaps to repay debts, if indeed he had any some 
30 or so years later. 
But its also CSTs position that Mr W didnt need to rely on these assets, and so they could 
be viewed as non-essential for retirement purposes. As such, its difficult to reasonably 
conclude whether or not Mr W would have taken the tax free cash. This is in fact just one of 
the many problems of addressing a transfer which was recommended some 30 years before 
Mr Ws prospective retirement. So much could change in the intervening period.From a purely financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of 
the scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the 
guidance was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ws 
best interests. 
On the basis of retirement at 65, the critical yield if Mr W planned to take the tax free lump 
sum was below the discount rate, and so may on the face of it have seemed achievable.
But I think its also worth noting that the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt 
in any case indicate suitability of a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. And so Ive then 
considered the overall suitability of the transfer, taking into account other considerations.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that CST did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as CST will be aware, 
and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this also 
wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. CST needed to be satisfied, before 
providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment 
risk was a suitable course of action for Mr W.
As set out above, CSTs further reasoning for the transfer was that Mr W required flexibility 
of income due to his particular circumstances, objectives (including the prospect of early 
retirement), and concerns about his employer and the pension scheme. And so Ive given 
this argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr W may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
I also think its quite possible that Mr W had an moderately cautious, or even medium as 
was recorded in the suitability report, risk rating, given his age and number of years to 
retirement. 
CST has repeatedly said that Mr W wouldnt be reliant upon the income from the BSPS in 
retirement, due to his wifes pension income, his own defined contribution accrual in the 
GPP, and their state pensions. 
But this does then beg the question as to why Mr W needed to transfer his guaranteed 
benefits at all. 
As set out by CST, Mr W had joined the replacement defined contribution scheme, and so 
would likely have accrued a reasonable amount of money purchase benefits given the 
overall contribution rate (if he remained with the same employer) by retirement. But other 
than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until age 67, the defined benefits accrued 
through the BSPS were still likely to have been his only source of guaranteed income. 
Through transferring, Mr W was effectively putting all of his eggs  barring the state pension 
- in one money purchase basket. And I just cant see why Mr W needed to take the associated additional risks here. In terms 
of the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr W would 
have control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he 
withdrew from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy potentially changing income needs. 
But other than concerns around the employer, with which Mr W said he wished to break all 
ties in relation to his pension, and associated scheme, which Ill address further below, its 
unclear as to why Mr W would have wanted or needed such additional flexibility at the cost 
of such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk associated with the transfer, 
and bearing in mind what CST has described as his moderately cautious attitude to risk and 
apparent lack of any similar historical investment which might otherwise indicate a 
preparedness to take risks with his pension income.
And if Mr W wished to retire early (in 30 or so years time), he could do so whilst also 
retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And in my 
consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr W to take tax free cash 
from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income. 
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr W would have accrued around 34 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 26 years by age 57. Given the likely value of 
this separate pot of money on the basis of the employer and employee contribution rates, 
this would likely be used to fund the bulk of his retirement needs between age 57, if indeed, 
as asserted by CST, he needed to do so at all, and his OPS/state pension beginning. Its 
likely that he could have relied on the proceeds of his defined contribution plan for flexible 
access to pension benefits, from whatever age after 57, and then taken guaranteed benefits 
from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when (or if) needed. 
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
left to age 65 (for example if his circumstances changed)  although I would say that I dont 
think the actual income requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could 
in any case reasonably have been known with any certainty given his distance from 
retirement - Mr W could then have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr W would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income (or lump sum
withdrawals if he later decided he wanted them) through the defined contribution accrual, 
until the point that he either needed, or chose, to begin taking benefits from either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF. And so any need for flexibility of income could have been addressed in this 
way.
Mr W may then have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which was higher 
than his actual needs, especially when the state pension began, but he could have simply 
reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his family, immediately gift it 
away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
Mr W may have been willing to accept a measure of risk for the sake of improving his 
income in retirement (albeit according to CST apparently not needed in any case), and as 
Ive said above, although Mr W didnt have any particular financial experience, I think he may 
have understood the principle of risk/reward, and risk warnings were provided by CST. 
But as Ive also noted above, Mr W was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution 
scheme, and given the likely accumulation of funds in that scheme, compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme retirement age, around 34 
years of his pension accrual at age 65 (or 29 by age 60) would likely be derived of the defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr W would already by necessity have been taking 
investment risk through the replacement scheme.
In light of this, and given that in the six years up to that point Mr W had been accruing 
defined benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been 
of some significant value as a foundation of stable, escalating income to hedge against 
uncertain returns in the defined contributions scheme, especially for a moderately cautious 
individual, and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which was 
loosely defined around the apparent desire for early retirement (some 26 years before this 
would be even be possible) and concerns around the employer/scheme. 
Ive also noted what CST has said about the historic performance of the recommended 
portfolio before the advice, and since. And as impressive as this might have seemed at the 
time of its response to the investigators view, I note that this has been somewhat less 
impressive since then, with a return over the last year of around 1.5%.
And this is rather the point. Even employing the benefit of known performance before the 
advice, and the benefit of hindsight in terms of performance since, Mr W had 34 years until 
the schemes normal retirement date, and whilst looking at fund performance, interest rates 
and CPI over a few years might suggest that, if that trend continued, the funds would 
perform well, that trend needed to be sustained for a very long time. And the reasonable 
likelihood of that kind of stable environment, which would at the very least match the 
required critical yields (which, blunt instrument or not, were still a reasonable indicator of the 
required returns) for that length of time was, in my view, low.
And on the particular note of Mr Ws concerns about the employer and the scheme, as with 
others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr W would have been concerned about the 
future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Ws concerns around this should 
have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the
employer, even if Mr W distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, 
which had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid 
the necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice 
(and in fact by the point of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely 
than not to be a viable alternative. 
As noted by CST, there were still conditions which still needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to 
be established, but when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the 
BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I 
think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the contrary.
And so I think that, had Mr Ws concerns been better managed, a seeming key driver for 
having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Mr W therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. The prospect of Mr Ws accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had 
receded. But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided 
him with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he 
did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. Mr Ws plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 26 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 57. Any flexibility requirements could 
have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ws retirement  and Mr W would have 
been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
There may have been lower CETVs offered in the future if gilt yields and other market 
factors changed, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr W could have achieved a degree 
of flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he did 
ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could 
have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr W or his adviser could then 
assess at that point whether a transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr W to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
Its fair to say that the lump sum death benefits offered by the transfer would likely be more 
beneficial to Mr Ws extended family. 
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ws benefits. Firstly, 
Mrs W was described as likely being financially independent of Mr Ws retirement income, 
which was a stated reason as to why the 50% spouses pension would have been of 
reduced importance to her.
But if that was the case, then she also had no need of the lump sum format of death benefits 
which could be provided by the PPP. Either Mrs W needed death benefits in one format or 
another, or she didnt. I dont think CST can have it both ways.
Im also concerned about the manner in which the scheme death benefits for Mrs W were 
conveyed in the suitability report, as follows:
In the event of your early demise, there would be very little to leave as a legacy for your 
wife, other than a return of contributions of £14,507.90 and a spousal pension at 50% of that 
payable to you.
But I think the way this was couched understated the significance of these potential benefits. 
The very little legacy referred to would of course be 50% of a guaranteed, escalating 
pension which would have been subject to revaluation for around 30 years, rather than 
whatever was left of a pension pot (subject to any withdrawals) which would be subject to 
uncertain market performance for the same length of time.
Further, in the event that Mr W did use the funds towards retirement income, he had no 
particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not 
benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, were 
of concern at that point. 
And accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather 
than a desire to leave a legacy for the wider family. The recommendation needed to be given 
in the context of Mr Ws best interests.
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the 
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. The desire 
to leave a legacy his extended family (and I note Mr W had no children at the time) cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr Ws own personal requirement to benefit from his accrued 
pension benefits. The wish to leave any such legacy should have been properly weighed 
against the guaranteed benefits Mr W was relinquishing, and CST should have advised him 
that his own financial benefit took priority here.
There was also no suggestion as to why a lump sum, beyond the death in service lump sum 
payment which would be paid if he remained in the same employment, and the value of the 
defined contribution scheme, would have been important to Mr Ws extended family in the 
event of his death. I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely 
understandable desire to leave some kind of financial legacy, but not essential (as noted at 
the time of the advice), and certainly not of sufficient importance to justify Mr W 
compromising the security of his own financial future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ws 
extended family by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to 
transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr W personally. 
What should CST have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ws decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr W. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr W to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of CST to
explain to Mr W why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Ws scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have 
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point 
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be 
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr W was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr W, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And Ive noted the following statements in the summary viewpoint section of the suitability 
report in which the supporting reasons for the transfer were set out. One of these was as 
follows:
Benefits including tax free lump sum can be accessed at age 57 as opposed to 65 under 
the existing scheme without penalty.
This is in my view misleading. Although there would have been a reduction in the scheme 
benefits payable at an earlier age, this reflects the longer period over which those benefits 
would likely be payable. And had Mr W begun accessing his PPP benefits early, there would 
have been a commensurate effect on the value of his pension fund in terms of taking early 
withdrawals (and for longer) and the knock on impact on the residual fund and its capacity 
for growth. 
That section also said:You want to leave a legacy to your wife and family. Any remaining capital balance could be 
inherited by your family should you die at a relatively young age compared to nothing from 
the final salary scheme.
This, again, was misleading. Mrs W wouldnt receive nothing from the scheme. She would 
receive the return of contributions and a 50% guaranteed, escalating, spouses pension for 
the rest of her life.
It further said:
Personal choice to want to flexibly access the fund, which will give you the ability to vary 
your income in line with your lifestyle requirements.
But as set out above, the accrued defined contributions would have likely amply catered for 
this, with the defined benefits then providing a foundation of guaranteed income upon which 
Mr W, as a moderately cautious investor, could rely.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ws
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr W to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 31.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ws concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future
pension which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon 
investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise 
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP.
Taking account of Mr Ws circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his 
objectives and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either 
the BSPS 2 or the PPF, my view is that CST should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, given that Mr W would have been reliant on the advice 
given to him, he would have followed that advice and not transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr W, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ws options, especially given his attitude to risk, and the future 
benefits available from both the BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure 
to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr W were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types ofscheme benefits which would have been available to him. 
Although the critical yield to age 65 on the basis of Mr W taking tax free cash at retirement 
may have been lower than the discount rate, as the other reasons for transferring were 
insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, 
as set out by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, CST would - or should - then have drawn, 
and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ws best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr W would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted 
that there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, 
whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ws pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement.
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Ws recorded objectives was the ability to retire early. And so this would have 
been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he should opt 
for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, even if Mr W envisaged retiring early at the age of 31, I 
think its likely that, properly advised, he could have accessed his defined contribution 
scheme benefits to make up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and 
starting to take his defined benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal 
scheme retirement age. The advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt 
therefore have applied.
Id also refer to my comments as set out above about the likelihood at the time of the BSPS 
2 being implemented, over the likelihood of the scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I therefore consider that Mr W would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. And as Ive set out 
above, given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr 
W would take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined 
above, of accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required.CST Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
CST Wealth Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr W hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years yet. So, given my comments above 
about not in any case likely needing to access the defined benefits before age 65, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, CST Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts CST Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr 
W for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on CST Wealth Management 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on CST Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr W could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my 
final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct CST Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman