DRN-3562113
The complaint
Mr S says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has treated him unfairly in relation 
to a transaction on his credit card which paid for a package holiday abroad.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr S used his Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) credit card 
(Virgin for short) to pay for a package holiday for him and a friend to Spain. Mr S paid over 
£1450 for this holiday to a package holiday supplier. They were due to fly in September 
2020.
As the Pandemic spread in mid 2020 Mr S became concerned. Mr S has said regarding the 
holiday that they had to cancel it due to not being able to self-isolate on return. The 
supplier refunded the accommodation but not the flights. Mr S had insurance and his insurer 
paid for his share of the flight cost. Mr S friend didnt have insurance so Mr S is claiming he 
should be refunded this amount which is just over £215. So he took his complaint to Virgin.
Virgin looked into the matter and didnt refund Mr S this outstanding amount. But it did pay 
him £50 for the customer service it had provided in dealing with the matter. Mr S, still 
unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Virgin didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S used his Virgin credit card to pay for the holiday. This means under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) he can bring a like claim against Virgin for any 
breach or misrepresentation made by the Supplier. But to be clear Virgin is only liable when 
its made out there is breach or misrepresentation. 
Mr S Virgin credit card is also part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving Virgin an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Suppliers, namely 
through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor 
does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider raising a 
chargeback to be good practice if the credit card provider considers the dispute has a 
reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about Virgin and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mr S fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision isnt 
about the supplier, or the airline who provided the flights or Mr S insurer who arent parties 
to this decision. I hope this distinction is clear.
I should also add that Mr S has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
could Virgin challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr S does 
here, Virgin can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr S doesnt dispute that he 
used his Virgin credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transactions. So I dont think Virgin couldve challenged the payment on the basis 
Mr S didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
Virgin is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
 The network issued guidance in May 2020 which is in the form of question and answer. 
The relevant part of the guidance being:
Question: A cardholder declined use of available services due to concerns related to Covid-
19. For example, the cardholder chose not to fly following precautionary advice or to avoid 
mandated quarantines upon arrival. Does the issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: No. The issuer does not have chargeback rights if a cardholder chose not to use 
services made available by a merchant, as the merchant has fulfilled its obligations linked to 
the transaction. This also applies to non-airline merchants, such as hotels and other venues 
that kept their obligations to deliver services.
Mr S has told us that he cancelled to avoid having to self-isolate on return. Its clear from the 
evidence that the flights he was booked on were provided and flew. The Suppliers contract 
makes clear that the terms and conditions of the airline apply. And having considered the 
airlines conditions its clear they are non-cancellable or refundable. Bearing all this in mind 
had Virgin raised a chargeback Im not persuaded it had a reasonable prospect of success. 
So I dont think Mr S has lost out because it didnt go through this process further.
What about s75?
Ive considered the preliminary requirements set in the CCA for a claim to be potentially 
successful. Im satisfied that the claim sits within the financial limits applicable. Im not 
necessarily satisfied that the required Debtor/Creditor/Supplier relationship is in place with 
regard to Mr S friends claim but for reasons I shall now give I dont think this makes a 
difference.
For similar reasons as above Im not persuaded there is a breach of contract here nor a 
misrepresentation by the supplier which means Virgin should refund Mr S the outstanding 
amount. Mr S cancelled the trip including the flight tickets and he got no refund as per the 
terms applicable. Im satisfied that the supplier or airline committed no breach here nor 
misrepresentation which Mr S relied on to his detriment. The flights flew and Mr S cancelled 
because he didnt want to self-isolate. 
Mr S rightly points to the Package Travel Regulations (PTRs) for extra protection. Im 
satisfied that this is a package holiday and entitled to protection under the PTRs where 
applicable. But as the Investigator described, cancellations only get protection under the 
PTRs in certain circumstances.The exact quote from the Competition and Markets Authoritys open letter to package travel 
operators explains that if a consumer cancels a package before it has started due to:
Unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances occurring at the place of destination or its 
immediate vicinity and which significantly affect-
a) the performance of the package, or
b) the carriage of passengers to the destination
Then a full refund is often due to consumers. But here the flights flew, and it hasnt been 
established that at the time of the flights that the rest of the contract couldnt be performed. 
Mr S didnt provide contrary evidence to the Investigators assessment on this point and this 
service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that Mr S couldnt have had full use of the package. 
He chose to cancel to avoid self-isolation rules here rather than because the package 
couldnt be provided. So I dont think Virgin should refund the outstanding sum here.
In response to our Investigators assessment Mr S didnt contend the position of the 
Investigator but asked for £250 compensation for Virgins handling of the matter. Mr S has 
pointed to these failings in the past but hasnt set out any arguments about how such delay 
impacted him or caused him any particular distress or inconvenience. Virgin paid him £50 
originally for these customer service issues. I simply dont see any justification for the 
amount Mr S has now asked for other than its not dissimilar to the outstanding loss hes 
claiming for. But Im not persuaded that Mr S has suffered any significant distress or 
inconvenience which would warrant a higher award than the £50 already paid.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr S wishes to read. And I think Virgin should 
have done better in handling the claim, whilst acknowledging the exceptional situation it was 
facing with such a sudden influx of such claims. However Im not persuaded it has to do 
anything more than it has already done. Accordingly this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman