DRN-4207052
The complaint
Mr A complains about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) poor service and the 
decline of his claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A held a gadget insurance policy with AIG. Whilst travelling abroad he lost the phone and 
made a claim. AIG asked for various items of evidence, over the course of a few months, 
which Mr A provided. But due to the delay in AIG progressing the claim, the claim expired 
and had to be re-logged. AIG finally accepted the claim in June 2022. 
It instructed its delivery partner to deliver the phone to Mr As home address. But Mr A said 
that he did not receive the phone. So, AIG contacted its delivery partner to find out what had 
happened. AIG said that the delivery partner had delivered the phone to the address given. 
And that it could prove this by the GPS data as well as a delivery photo. 
Mr A said that he never received the phone and at the day it was delivered, he was at work. 
He said that he lived in a multi-occupancy house and no one else in the home took the 
phone in. He also questioned why no identification was asked for before the delivery was 
made, given the high cost of the phone. So, Mr A complained to AIG. 
In its final response, AIG maintained its position that the phone had been delivered, so it 
wouldnt deliver another phone. Mr A was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that AIG had not provided any GPS evidence and the delivery photo that it provided showed 
no identifying features that could support that the phone had been delivered directly to Mr A.  
So, she recommended that AIG replace Mr As phone. 
She also said that during the investigation of this complaint AIG had accepted that there had 
been delays and poor handling of the claim. It offered £170 for the trouble and upset this 
caused. But our investigator felt that this didnt go far enough and increased the 
compensation to £250, as AIG had allowed the claim to expire before re-opening it, as well 
as the poor handling. 
Mr A accepted the view, AIG did not. It said that there was evidence that its delivery partner 
had delivered the phone to the correct location. It said that Mr A had never told it that the 
delivery address was a multi-occupancy home, until after the delivery attempt. Had the 
customer made them aware it could have made provisions or suggested delivery at an 
alternative address. It said the process the delivery partner followed was correct, so it 
wouldnt agree to replacing the phone. But it would agree to the £250 compensation as it 
accepted the poor service issues. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings explain why I think this 
is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, and it seems that the main issue of 
this complaint is the delivery of the phone. AIG has accepted that there were poor service 
issues and agreed to pay Mr A compensation of £250, for the trouble and upset caused. Im 
satisfied that given the delays, that the claim had to be re-logged and for the poor service, 
the compensation that AIG has agreed to is fair, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Turning to the delivery. Mr A has given testimony that on the day in question, he was at work 
and so wasnt at his home to receive the phone.  AIG has relied on its delivery partners 
evidence that the phone was delivered to Mr As address and was received by a person who 
answered the door. It said that it also relied upon GPS data that showed that the delivery 
took place at Mr As address. 
I note that I havent been provided with this data. The evidence that I have been provided 
with are internet search photos, of the location of what AIG said is Mr As home. I would 
have expected the GPS data to have shown the actual location of the courier at the time of 
the delivery. 
In addition, the other evidence I have seen is a delivery photo that shows someones legs 
and purports to have been taken outside Mr As home. What is also seen in the photo is a 
package that the delivery person is holding in his hand. There is no evidence of who 
received the package or if the package was handed over. Taking all of this information into 
consideration, I dont think this is enough evidence to support that the phone was actually 
delivered to Mr A. And Ill explain why. 
Both parties agree that the cost of the phone was high. Given that the replacement phone 
was expensive, the onus was on AIG to ensure that Mr A received the replacement phone. 
AIG couldve instructed its delivery partner to obtain a signature or further details to ensure 
the correct identification of the person who the phone was given to. I understand from AIG 
that its couriers are able to carry out additional checks. But I cant see that this was done. 
And I dont think a photo of effectively a doorstep and someones legs, was sufficient to 
support that identity checks were made and that the phone was given to Mr A. 
AIG said that it had sent Mr A emails to inform him of the intended delivery and these were 
followed up with text messages. But it accepted that the email address that it had on file was 
the incorrect email and so its likely that Mr A did not receive those. 
Further, as Mr A stated he was at work, its possible that he didnt see any text messages. In 
any event, without persuasive evidence that the phone was delivered directly to Mr A (which 
I havent seen) I dont think that AIG has discharged its obligation to ensure that Mr A 
received his replacement phone. 
Putting things right
So, to put matters right, I think its fair and reasonable for AIG to replace Mr As phone and 
pay him £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr As complaint. 
To put matters right, American International Group UK Limited to:
Replace Mr As phone 
Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
American International Group UK Limited must pay the above compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman