DRN-3729076
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy about the advice Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him about 
his defined benefit (DB) pension.
Mr L is also unhappy about that the amount Aviva charged him for their advice and that VAT 
was added.
What happened
In spring 2020 Mr L contacted Aviva to discuss the option to transfer benefits from a defined 
benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension. He had been thinking about this for over a year 
and had approached different adviser firms who had quoted him around £11,000 in fees for 
their advice. He wanted to see what Aviva could offer.
In July 2020 Mr L had a conversation with Aviva about transferring his pension. Avivas 
internal notes show that the advice process and fees were discussed in detail and Mr L was 
initially hesitant to pay £5,000 plus VAT in fees for a potential remain recommendation. 
However, the adviser explained that they would go into huge amounts of detail and that they 
would always advise on the best recommendation for him taking into account all his goals 
and that if the recommendation was to remain in the DB scheme this would be the right thing 
for him. 
Mr L decided to proceed with the advice process and Aviva completed a fact-find to gather 
information about his circumstances and objectives. The information gathered showed:
Mr L was 51 years old, married, and had no dependent children
He was employed earning £45,000 per year 
He and his wife had joint cash accounts of around £53,000 plus another £2,600 each 
in premium bonds
He had a house with a value of £250,000 and an outstanding mortgage of £56,000 
which was due to be repaid in December 2020 from an endowment policy, regular 
overpayments and savings. It was recorded Mr L and his wife would be left with 
around £23,000 in savings after the mortgage was repaid. And they could save at 
least £500 in disposable income between then and Mr L turning 60.
In addition to his DB scheme, Mr L also held three defined contribution (DC) 
pensions with a total value of around £283,000.
Mr Ls reasons for wanting to transfer at his point were recorded as:
He felt more growth could be achieved outside his DB scheme and that his current 
scheme was restrictive. By moving his pension he hoped to increase the fund. He 
thought his DB scheme had the potential to keep pace with inflation but not much 
more.
Mr L wanted a flexible income as he had planned to semi-retire at around 60 (and 
fully retire at 67) and thought he would need more money during the first years of 
retirement
Mr L wanted to leave a pot of money to his wife rather than a monthly income.
He would like to have left something to his daughter, but his priority was for him and 
his wife to have a good retirement 
To make the most of his pension as he believed he would have a shorter than 
average life expectancy. His parents and siblings had all died relatively young and he 
had several health issues and had been exposed to hazardous materials earlier in his 
career which caused him Asthma.
The notes suggest a detailed discussion about Mr Ls and his wifes income and expenditure 
as well as their required income, needs and goals in retirement.
Aviva also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
the low end of moderate. The adviser noted that given Mr Ls limited experience in 
investments outside his pension they classified him as overall having limited knowledge and 
experience. The notes recorded that when this was discussed with Mr L he felt this was a 
fair and honest assumption to make.
In early August Mr L signed Avivas service agreement document which outlined the services 
it provided and the fees it would charge.
In November 2020, the adviser had to pass Mr Ls file to one of her colleagues due to an 
internal restructure. She had a handover discussion for the new adviser to understand Mr Ls 
circumstances and motivations for a transfer.
The new adviser prepared a Transfer Value Comparator (TVC) which was discussed with Mr 
L in November.
Aviva then issued a suitability report on 11 December 2020 which was discussed with Mr L 
on 14 December. Avivas advice was for Mr L not to transfer out of the DB scheme. 
In summary they said that even though Mr L was able to meet his income and capital 
requirements both by staying in the scheme or transferring out, there was no need to take 
the additional risks associated with transferring out of the DB scheme. And Mr L had some 
flexibility through his DC pensions. They were concerned about Mr Ls limited investment 
experience and how he would react if he experienced significant losses with his pension. 
Although Mr L had given detail of his retirement goals, he was still only 51 years old and his 
goals could change before he was due to retire. Aviva also said it was less likely for Mr L to 
encounter lifetime allowance tax charges if he remained in his DB scheme.
Unhappy with the recommendation, Mr L complained to Aviva who rejected the complaint.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt think it should be upheld, he said the 
advice Aviva had provided to Mr L to stay within the DB scheme was reasonable and that 
the decision made by Aviva to charge VAT on the service it had provided was outside of the 
scope of our service.
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. He made several 
points in response to our investigators view:
Aviva based the TVC on him retiring at age 65 when it should have based it on him 
retiring at age 60. He was aiming to at least partially retire at age 60 and this was the 
age at which he could take early retirement without reduction
Due to his health conditions, inherited DNA, and area he used to live in, he had a 
shorter life expectancy. This used to be a valid reason to transfer a pension and if 
this had changed, he should have been made aware.Aviva had failed to realise that Mr L did not in fact have £50,000 in savings, this 
money was in a mortgage account to be used against his outstanding mortgage as 
his endowment would not cover the full mortgage amount when it became due.
Mr L had experienced a loss to both his pension and his endowment previously and 
therefore he had experienced previous investment loss. He had also bought shares 
through the companies he had worked for in the past that gave him further 
investment experience.
Overall Mr L thinks the advice provided by Aviva wasnt suitable or adequate and was based 
on information they had recorded incorrectly about his personal circumstances. He also 
doesnt think its reasonable that he should have to pay the fee of £5,000 plus VAT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Transfer advice
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Aviva should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
I appreciate that Mr L has strong views that a transfer would be in his best interest for 
various reasons. However, as the adviser I would expect Aviva to reach their own view 
rather than just fulfil their clients wishes. Aviva didnt think a transfer was clearly in Mr Ls 
best interest and they are entitled to reach this view. My remit here is not to replace the 
advisers decision. However, Ive considered whether Aviva treated Mr L fairly and whether 
they considered his circumstances properly and reasonably weighed up the advantages and 
disadvantages of a transfer.
Having considered all the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Aviva considered Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives in detail. They followed a thorough fact-finding process and 
considered Mr Ls motives for wanting a transfer. I also dont think the new adviser didnt 
fully understand Mr Ls situation. I can see he had the information available that had been 
gathered by his colleague and there had been a handover.
TVC
I agree with Mr L that the TVC should have used a retirement age of 60 and not 65. I 
understand Avivas argument that is wasnt guaranteed Mr L could take variable benefits 
from his DB scheme at age 60 and so they didnt want to use ambiguous assumptions. 
However, COBS 19.1.3A (4) does clearly state:
Where the ceding arrangement allows the retail client to take their benefits at an age below the 
schemes normal retirement age, with no reduction for early payment and where no consent is 
required, then the firm must provide a transfer value comparator assuming that the retail 
client will retire at this age.Mr Ls scheme did allow retirement at age 60 without deduction or consent. So a retirement 
age of 60 should have been used.
However, I dont think this likely would have changed the outcome of the advice. Whilst the 
projected DB income would have been lower than at age 65 (as the scheme offered late 
retirement increases), an annuity starting at age 60 would have been more expensive. So 
overall its very likely in my view that a TVC to age 60 still would have shown a considerable 
shortfall between the transfer value and a comparable annuity from age 60.
The TVC is designed to give the client a better idea of the value of their DB pension and 
show that even a high transfer value could be low in comparison of what is needed to buy 
comparable benefits on the open market. Whilst Aviva used a retirement age of 65, they 
used the quote given to them by the DB trustees which included late retirement factors and 
so their TVC was a fair comparison at age 65 and I dont think Mr L was misled by this 
comparison in relation to the value of his pension.
The suitability report recorded that that the TVC was discussed in detail and Mr L did 
understand the concept of the TVC and what it was meant to illustrate. He didnt think the 
shortfall figure was a true figure as the assumed investment returns were low and he didnt 
see inflation figures being 3% for a long time. It was noted that he wasnt bothered by the 
shortfall and clearly did not put much weight on the TVC. 
Equally, Aviva did not base their recommendation to remain on the TVC. They concluded Mr 
L understood the TVC and was still willing to give up the guarantees of the scheme. In fact 
its clear from the suitability report and the cash flow analysis that Aviva thought Mr Ls 
income and capital requirements could also likely be met by transferring out of the scheme, 
so this wasnt a reason for recommending against a transfer.
So overall I dont think using a retirement age of 65 in the TVC instead of 60 had a 
significant impact on the advice given to Mr L.
Reduced life expectancy
I can see that Mr L strongly believes he will die earlier than the average life expectancy and 
that this should be reason to let him transfer out. And I would expect Aviva to take his health 
and lifestyle into account in their transfer advice.
Ive carefully looked at everything Mr L has said in this regard and I appreciate he has 
various health conditions and that many of his family members have died before retirement 
age. So I can understand his concerns that he might not live as long to fully benefit from his 
DB scheme. 
However, whilst health is a consideration when giving pension transfer advice, it does need 
to be considered with all other relevant circumstances. Mr L feels not enough weight has 
been given to his possibly reduced life expectancy. However, Im satisfied based on the 
information Ive seen that everything Mr L has said about his health has been noted and 
formed part of the advice considerations.
Mr L was asked to provide a letter from his GP to comment on a shortened life expectancy, 
however the GP was not prepared to provide this. Aviva then asked their underwriter team 
whether Mr L would qualify for an enhanced annuity (which would infer the risk of a 
potentially reduced life expectancy). The underwriters informed the adviser that based on the 
information provided by Mr L (which I note was relatively detailed), they wouldnt offer an 
enhanced annuity.I dont deny that Mr Ls family history, previous work-related exposure to harmful materials 
and substances and his existing health issues might affect his life expectancy. However, the 
adviser also needed to take into account the possibility that Mr L could live to his average life 
expectancy or even longer.
I can also see Aviva also considered Mr Ls wifes position if he died before and after 
retirement whilst still in the DB scheme and found that her income and capital needs could 
be met. 
Investment experience and knowledge
Mr L explained that he had experienced losses in both his pension and endowment polices 
and that he had traded company shares. However, I think overall I agree that his experience 
was limited. Also, its different to see your pension value drop whilst youre still working or 
experience losses which you can absorb through savings than whether this happens at a 
time when you are relying on your pension for income needs in retirement.  
Summary
Based on what Ive seen I think Aviva carried out a detailed assessment of Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives and weighed up the advantages and disadvantages of a 
transfer.
They didnt just base their advice on one issue but looked at Mr Ls situation holistically. This 
also included the fact that Mr L was only 51 years old at the time he was receiving his advice 
and not able to take his pension benefits immediately. And so his situation and needs in 
retirement could change. 
Overall, I dont think the advice Aviva gave Mr L to stay in the DB scheme was unreasonable 
or that they treated him unfairly.
Advice fee and VAT
Mr L has told us that he doesnt think it is reasonable for Aviva to charge its fee of £5,000. 
However, as described above I think Aviva followed a thorough advice process and the fees 
were discussed before Mr L proceeded. I dont think the report included any inaccuracies 
which were significant enough to justify the non-payment of this fee. Its clear Mr L is simply 
unhappy with the advice he was given. However, I think he was made aware that a remain 
recommendation could be the outcome, so I dont think he was misled in this regard.
Mr L doesnt think Aviva should be charging VAT on the advice fee. He referred to VAT 
guidance by HMRC which said certain activities by intermediaries were exempt. However, as 
far as Im aware there are different interpretations in the industry of whether advice which 
didnt lead to the provision of another service is covered by this exemption. And financial 
advice generally is subject to VAT. Avivas interpretation is that VAT is applicable in these 
circumstances and its for Aviva to interpret the rules set out by HMRC and apply them 
accordingly to ensure they comply with their obligations. So I dont consider it appropriate for 
me to ask them to do anything different in this regard. I also note Mr L was informed in the 
client agreement that VAT might be applicable to the fees charged.
I consider its reasonable for Aviva to expect Mr L to pay the fee including VAT.
Nina Walter
Ombudsman