DRN-3802029
The complaint
Mr J has complained that his bank Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund the 
money he has lost following him being the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr J saw an investment link in a telegram channel he was part of and decided to 
join the third-party channel.
The third-party that I will call (A) explained the investment and potential returns to Mr J. A 
then guided Mr J through the process of setting up a trust wallet. Mr J purchased Bitcoin 
through the company Moonpay, transferred those funds to a trust wallet and then forwarded 
those funds to A.
A had convinced Mr J to part with a total of almost £5,000.
Mr J has explained that one of the payments he attempted to make was stopped by Monzo 
and that Monzo should have intervened at this stage to stop him incurring any further loss.
Our Investigator considered Mr Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as the 
payments Mr J had made were to a legitimate business and were made over several days. 
Our Investigator didnt think any of the payments were of a particularly high value significant 
enough to cause any concern.  
Our Investigator also asked the Monzo about the payment it declined. Monzo explained that 
Mr J had a gambling block on his account. Transactions to Moonpay are not considered to 
be gambling so most of his payments were processed as expected. One of the payments 
was however identified as a gambling transaction because of the way it was recorded at 
Moonpay. This transaction was automatically declined because of the gambling block on Mr 
Js account with no human intervention.
With this explanation in mind our Investigator didnt think Monzo would have cause for 
concern about the payments Mr J was making to Moonpay.
Mr J disagreed with our Investigators view, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback process is in place to refund customers when they pay for goods or 
services on their card that are not received. In this case Mr J knowingly purchased Bitcoin 
via Moonpay and this service was provided to him. Therefore, the chargeback option would 
not have been available to him as his dispute is with A, not Moonpay and Mr J doesnt 
dispute receiving Bitcoin in exchange for his payment  so any chargeback attempt against 
Moonpay would likely failed. I therefore dont think its unreasonable that Monzo didnt 
explore this further. 
Its clear that Mr J has been the unfortunate victim of a scam. I need to decide whether 
Monzo is responsible for Mr Js loss. This means deciding if Monzo was reasonably aware of 
the potential scam and if it should have stepped in to prevent it.
In general banks have fraud prevention measures in place and certain activity will often be 
caught by these measures and payments can be stopped as a result.
Mr J made nine payments to Moonpay for the purchase of Bitcoin over a five-day period. 
The largest payment was for just over £1,000 and the total amount of the payments was just 
under £5,000. It would be unreasonable to suggest that Monzo should intervene in every 
payment its customer makes  particularly payments that are to legitimate businesses (as 
was the case here). When considering the payments in dispute here, I do not think when 
taken individually or collectively, Monzo would have had reasonable grounds to suspect a 
fraud or scam was taking place. I dont think the payments were unusual enough (when 
compared to Mr Js normal account spend) for me to suggest that Monzo acted 
unreasonably by allowing all of them through without a meaningful conversation with Mr J.  
Mr J then moved these funds to his trust wallet and then to A. Monzo was not involved in 
these transactions and would therefore not be in a position to intervene here either.
Mr J has explained that one of the payments he attempted was stopped by Monzo so at this 
point Monzo should have stepped in as it would have known the payments were of concern. 
But as explained above Monzo has told us that Mr J had a gambling block on his account. 
This block meant that payments considered to be for gambling would automatically be 
blocked. Payments to Moonpay are not usually considered to be for gambling and are not 
usually blocked for this reason.
The payment Mr J has highlighted was identified as a gambling transaction because of the 
way it was recorded by Moonpay. Something Monzo has no control over. This transaction 
was automatically declined due to the gambling block on Mr Js account with no human 
intervention. The payment was not stopped as a fraud prevention measure.
As the payment was not highlighted as potential fraud by Monzos system I dont think 
Monzo would have been aware of any issues with the payments Mr J was making.
Overall, I dont think Monzo would reasonably have been aware of the scam Mr J was falling 
victim to at the time and therefore it was not able to intervene. So, I dont think it was 
responsible for Mr Js loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman