DRN-3771955
The complaint
Mr S says Haven Insurance Company Limited acted unreasonably in rejecting a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr Ss car broke down on 8 April 2021. He thought the issue was covered by a warranty, 
and when a dispute about that ensued, he made a complaint to us. Meanwhile the car was 
left, locked but unattended, eight miles from his home. Mr S said he checked the car every 
day until he had to self-isolate (due to Covid) on 10 October 2021. When he went to check 
the car again on 11 November 2021, he found it had been stolen. 
In the final response letter Haven issued in reply to Mr Ss complaint, it said it had declined 
his claim as he hadnt taken reasonable care to protect the car (a requirement set out in the 
policys general conditions) by leaving it eight miles from home for seven months. An advisor 
told Mr S that he should have advised it of the change in circumstances. Mr S said there was 
no change in them. He said hed checked that he wasnt required to report a breakdown to 
Haven - and he didnt accept its later suggestion that hed abandoned the car as well.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. Haven told her it would have expected 
Mr S to move the car to a safe place within a reasonable time of the breakdown, but instead 
hed left it in an industrial area for months. It also said one of the criteria set out in 
government guidelines about car abandonment was that a car could be considered 
abandoned if it was stationary for a significant amount of time  or if it wasnt roadworthy.
The investigator said as Mr S was trying to resolve a dispute about the cars warranty  and 
was waiting for our view on it  in her opinion, he hadnt abandoned the car. She thought it 
was parked in a residential area. She didnt think Haven had shown the car wasnt 
roadworthy - and she queried what a significant amount of time was. She said consumers 
often park their cars somewhere other than at their home addresses overnight  at work for 
example. She said Haven hadnt shown that it wouldnt have provided cover for Mr S (or that 
it would have charged him more for cover) had it known the facts. In her view, it hadnt 
shown grounds to decline the claim based on the car not being at Mr Ss home address.
 
Haven said the reference the investigator made to an extra premium for overnight parking 
away from home was irrelevant. It added that a consumer cant recover under a policy if any 
conduct on their part is a breach of criminal law. It said it thought the car was abandoned, 
and that it wasnt roadworthy, given that Mr S hadnt been able to drive it for seven months. 
I issued a provisional decision, not upholding Mr Ss complaint, as follows:
One of the policys general terms and conditions is that a policy holder must take reasonable 
care to avoid damage to or the loss of their vehicle. The policy says Haven may refuse to 
deal with a claim if a policy holder hasnt done so, as they have a duty to take all reasonable 
steps to prevent damage or loss. Most policies have a similar term, to encourage consumers 
to do all they can to limit the risks to their car. If they dont, theyre on notice that the insurer 
may not cover a claim resulting from any increased risk to it.  
 
Although Mr S was in a dispute about the cars warranty, and was waiting for it to be 
resolved, I dont think that prevented him from having the car moved away from where hed 
left it. In my opinion (having looked at the photos on the file and also at satellite views of the 
cars location) it was parked in an industrial area, with residential properties visible, but at a 
distance away. More importantly, it was left there from April 2021 to at least October 2021. 
I think Mr S should  have informed Haven about the situation, not because the car had 
broken down, but because hed decided to leave it elsewhere (for an open-ended period of 
time) when it was insured to be parked overnight outside his home address normally. Had he 
done so I think Haven would have reminded him about the need to take all reasonable steps 
to protect his car. I think its more likely than not it would have suggested moving it, given the 
increased risk at the new location.
Although Mr S says he travelled to the cars location every day to check on it, I cant see how 
that would have reduced the risk to the car much. For almost all of each 24-hour period, for 
at least six months, the car was still unattended and vulnerable. Many cars are parked away 
from their owners home addresses overnight, some on occasion and others regularly. But I 
dont think Mr Ss  decision to leave the car in the same distant location for so long is similar 
to someone parking their car at work overnight, or sometimes parking it elsewhere. In those 
circumstances, the car would still be moved regularly and would mostly be kept at the home 
address specified by the policy holder and covered by the insurer. 
In my opinion, its more likely than not that over such a long period, the fact that Mr Ss car 
remained stationary would have been noticed. Others may have thought it was abandoned. 
Even if that wasnt the case, I think the location is likely to have been quiet overnight, when 
the surrounding businesses would have been closed. I think its fair to say that the chance of 
anyone noticing thieves paying attention to the car was much less than it would have been 
had the car been parked close to Mr Ss home address. 
The government guidance on abandonment doesnt say what a significant amount of time is 
 although using the ordinary meaning of the word, I think most reasonable consumers 
would say seven months is a significant or notable period for a car not to be moved. But in 
my opinion, this point isnt really relevant, as I dont think Haven has to show that the car 
was abandoned. I dont think it has to show the car wasnt roadworthy, either. Haven 
declined to deal with the claim as it thought Mr S had breached the policys terms and 
conditions and in doing so increased the risk of the loss of or damage to the car. So I think 
all it has to show is that Mr S didnt take all reasonable steps to prevent damage to the car or 
the loss of it.
 
Haven told us it wouldnt deal with a claim if a consumers conduct could be a breach of 
criminal law. It didnt expand on that point, but I think it may be a reference to the right of a 
local authority to decide if a car has been abandoned - and if so its right to prosecute the 
owner. Theres nothing to show that the local authority was even aware of the car being left 
where it was for so long, let alone that it intended to prosecute Mr S, although the potential 
to do so may have been there. And in my opinion, this issue isnt relevant either, given the 
reason Haven gave Mr S initially for not dealing with his claim. 
I think it was reasonable for Haven to decide that Mr S hadnt taken all reasonable steps to 
prevent damage to or the loss of his car. I think it was a fair conclusion to reach given the 
time the car was left in a location away from home, where it was more likely to be at risk of 
being damaged or stolen. Consequently, based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to conclude that it was reasonable for Haven not to deal with Mr Ss claim. So Im minded not 
to uphold his complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Haven didnt comment - but Mr S 
commented extensively, in writing and in a call to the investigator. Ive summarised the major 
points Mr S made below:
The provisional decision was based on my opinion rather than on the facts
I said the car was abandoned, when in fact Mr S has shown that he was 
working with organisations to resolve the issue with the warranty. And the car 
was to be towed to a garage, but it was stolen before that could happen  
Mr S showed he was taking reasonable care of the car by having an MOT done 
earlier that year, by taxing it, by ensuring the windows and doors were locked, 
by securing the keys, by checking it was still there every day, by trying to 
resolve the warranty issue and by looking at towing options. So he doesnt 
understand how I concluded that it was fair to say he hadnt done enough
The car wasnt left for an open-ended period. Mr S thought the warranty issue 
would be resolved swiftly and the car would then have been moved 
Contrary to my opinion, as Mr S checked on the car every day the risk to it was 
reduced. Potential thieves knew it hadnt been abandoned  and neither Mr S 
nor I can know how a car thief thinks, as were not car thieves
Although I said nothing prevented Mr S from having the car moved whilst he 
dealt with the warranty issue, the warranty dispute process prevented it
Havens terms and conditions are seriously lacking, in that theres no definition 
of some of the words used in them. Theres no explanation of how to protect a 
car either, or what places Haven considers are safe or unsafe to leave them      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer asks this service to review a complaint about car insurance, the 
consumer is asking us to give an opinion on whether an insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably. But our opinions are based on the available evidence and on what is more likely 
than not to be the case. The investigator gave her opinion based on the facts as she saw 
them. Haven didnt agree with her. So, as we have a two-stage process, I then looked at the 
same details as the investigator  and reached a different conclusion. 
 
The major facts in this case are these: Mr Ss policy says cover wont be provided if a 
consumer doesnt take all reasonable steps to protect their car from damage or loss. Mr S 
left his car on an industrial estate unattended for over six months. During that time he tried to 
resolve an issue with the cars warranty. He took some steps to protect the car, but it was 
stolen at some point after six months regardless. Its a matter of opinion whether Mr S did 
enough to protect the car from loss. Mr S thinks he did, but in Havens opinion, he didnt. 
And in my opinion  having considered all the facts - it was reasonable for Haven to 
conclude that he didnt do enough. 
Mr S is mistaken in believing that I said the car was abandoned. I covered the issue because 
Haven and the investigator had commented on it  but I said I thought it was irrelevant to the 
complaint. But Im still of the view that the car was left a long way from home for an open-
ended period, as there was never a definite date for it to be moved. I appreciate that Mr S hoped the warranty dispute would be dealt with quickly, but that proved not to be the case. 
He hasnt given any reason why he couldnt have had the car moved whilst he continued to 
deal with the warranty issue. I dont see how he was prevented from doing so within a 
reasonable time of the breakdown. Instead, the car was away from his home address for 
over half of the year covered by the policy before it was stolen. 
I accept that Mr S took basic steps to protect the car by locking it and securing the keys. He  
believes he took other reasonable steps to protect it (such as having it taxed, getting a valid 
MOT certificate and trying to resolve the warranty issue). But these facts only show that he 
took an interest in the car, that he ensured it was in a roadworthy state and that he wanted it 
to be repaired. None of these steps would protect the car from loss.
 
I dont agree with Mr S that Haven should be required to spell out in the policy exactly whats 
reasonable in terms of protecting a car, or what a safe or unsafe place to keep a car is. 
There are far too many sets of possible circumstances for that to be possible for any insurer. 
All insurers rely on consumers taking a common-sense approach to specific situations that 
arise. A consumer doesnt have to think like a thief to decide whether a situation is probably 
risky, or whether a car is likely to be vulnerable to theft. And we base our views on what a 
reasonable consumer is likely to have done in the particular circumstances of each case.
Mr S must have recognised the risk of leaving the car where it was, otherwise, he wouldnt 
have made a 16-mile round trip each day for over six months to check it was still there. Its 
not possible to know for sure what most reasonable consumers would have done in his 
situation. I can only say what I think is more likely than not to be the case. I dont think its 
likely that most reasonable consumers would have left a car in the location Mr S left it in, 
especially for more than a short time. And I dont think its likely that theyd have thought 
locking the car and checking on it once a day (except for the month when it wasnt checked 
at all) would be enough in terms of taking reasonable steps to protect it. 
Although I havent commented on all the points Mr S made, Ive considered them all 
carefully. And Im still of the view that it was fair for Haven to conclude that he didnt take 
reasonable steps to protect the car from loss. I knew Mr S will be disappointed with my 
decision, and Im very sorry that hes suffered such a significant financial loss. But as I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Haven to decline his claim, I cant uphold Mr Ss complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 November 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman