DRN-4374005
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is unfairly seeking repayment of a Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL). Mr V says the loan was taken out without his knowledge.
What happened
In 2018, Mr V was awarded a substantial sum of money in compensation for an injury. A 
trust was set up in 2019 to manage the funds with Mr V as a trustee. 
In August 2020, there was a successful application in the name of the trust for a £48,500 
BBL, and Barclays transferred the loan funds to the trusts bank account. Within a fortnight, 
Mr V transferred most of the funds to his personal account, and the remainder by the end of 
September 2020.
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In November 2020, the bank posted copies of the BBL agreement and the direct debit 
agreement to Mr V.
In July 2021 onwards, letters were sent saying loan repayments were due to start from 
September 2021. In September 2021, Barclays wrote to explain that the trust had missed a 
repayment. Mr V complained to Barclays, saying hed never taken out a BBL.
Mr V said that hed previously purchased an expensive watch as an investment. Later, he 
needed funds and so he advertised the watch online for £55,000, and he accepted an offer 
of £48,500. Mr V said the buyer asked to pay the money to a business account for tax 
reasons, and in response Mr V said that while he didnt have a business account, he did 
have a trust account. The buyer asked for an authorisation code which was sent by the bank 
to Mr Vs banking app. Mr V confirmed that he gave this code to the buyer, but he 
understood at the time that the buyer needed it to verify Mr Vs account details. Mr V said he 
couldnt see the risk, as he hadnt revealed his password. Mr V pointed out that when the 
BBL funds were credited to the trust account, the statement entry didnt make it clear that it 
was a BBL  there was only a numerical reference. 
Mr V told us that after the funds were credited to the trust account, a courier was sent to 
collect the watch and all its documentation.
Barclays said that after the BBL was taken out, it would have been clearly visible to Mr V in 
the banking app and couldnt have been missed when he made transactions on the trust 
account. Mr V has denied that he saw the BBL there. The bank also sent the BBL agreement 
and direct debit agreement to Mr V in the post, but he has said that hed already spent the 
funds, so he didnt open or read any correspondence from Barclays. He has sent us 
photographs of unopened Barclays letters.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. For 
reasons that I summarise below, I thought the evidence didnt support a version of events in 
which a third party applied for the BBL without the knowledge or consent of Mr V, in order to 
trick Mr V into parting with a watch he owned.
Mr V disagreed with my conclusions. He made a number of points in response, which I also 
summarise below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs account of these events is that he offered his watch for sale online and the buyer 
tricked Mr V into believing the payment for the watch had been made, when in fact the funds 
transferred into the trust account were the proceeds of a fraudulent BBL application in the 
name of the trust. Since then, Mr V has spent the money, and his trust now owes the BBL 
debt to the bank. Put simply, his complaint is that he no longer has the watch but the bank 
wants him to pay back the money he received.
Having looked at all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that the BBL application 
happened without Mr Vs knowledge or consent. Nor am I persuaded that there is sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr V owned and lost the watch. Ill explain why below.
Knowledge of the BBL application
From the IP address, ISP and device evidence, I can see that its likely that the BBL 
application wasnt made by Mr V himself. However, this doesnt necessarily mean that the 
application was made without Mr Vs knowledge or consent. In that respect, there is other 
evidence that I must take into account. 
Ive seen evidence from the bank that Mr V himself accessed the banks BBL internet 
landing page four times in the days leading up to the BBL opening. Mr V said he knew 
nothing of the BBL application until long after it happened  but if that were the case, there 
would have been no reason for his visiting the BBL pages of Barclays website before the 
loan was taken out. In response to my provisional decision, Mr V says he didnt go to the 
banks BBL web pages. But Im satisfied from the evidence that Mr V visited these pages on 
these days, which strongly indicates that he knew about the BBL application when it was 
made.
I also agree with the bank that its communications about the existence of the BBL were 
clear, and I think it likely Mr V was aware of them.
Ive looked carefully at examples of the screenshots showing how the BBL appeared on the 
screen that a customer would see when they made a transaction on their bank account. In 
my view, this would have made it obvious to Mr V that there was a BBL when he made 
online transfers of the trust funds to his personal account. 
I also note that the bank posted full details of the BBL and direct debit to Mr V in November 
2020. Mr V says he didnt open the envelopes. He says he assumed that, as the trust 
account was empty by that time, it was junk mail. But Im not persuaded that Mr V would 
selectively ignore letters from the bank in this way. 
Given the clarity and amount of information given to Mr V about the BBL from August 2020 
onwards, Im not persuaded that Mr V would have failed to see that information.Mr V says that Barclays shouldnt have given a BBL to a trust, and if it had refused to do so, 
then the fraud wouldnt have happened. But the bank has pointed out that there were no 
restrictions in the rules of the BBL scheme regarding the type of entity that could apply. The 
loan had to be for business purposes, as declared by the borrower, but the lender was not 
required to verify that. I therefore dont think the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
agreeing the application for the BBL. 
Ownership of the watch
Mr V said he bought the watch with cash in 2019, but Ive seen no convincing evidence of 
his purchase or ownership of the watch, and no evidence to show where the cash came 
from. 
Mr V has provided no copies of any receipt, email or other documentation showing proof of 
ownership. He said he gave all the papers to the buyer in 2020, when the courier picked up 
the watch. 
Mr V has provided photos of the watch, some showing it on his wrist, and in its box. I have 
no reason to doubt that he was photographed with the watch. I have also seen a copy of the 
advert that he posted online, which showed the watch. But none of this is proof of Mr Vs 
purchase and ownership of the watch.
A third party emailed this service in February 2023 to say that their jewellery firm sold the 
watch to Mr V. The email said Mr [V] paid in cash which isnt unusual for us. I cant be 
certain on price if I recall correctly was in the region of 57,000 Euros which was paid in GBP. 
I sold it as a trade cash sale to Mr [V]. But Im not persuaded that the email is evidence of 
Mr Vs purchase. The email was accompanied by no receipt or any other contemporaneous 
evidence of the sale. Moreover, the email gave no geographical address and no web URL 
address for the jewellers, and a web search gives no results for their name. Mr V says the 
jeweller no longer operates in the UK, but I would still expect there to be some evidence of 
the jeweller having traded in this country. Mr V argues that we should have carried out more 
investigation to identify the jeweller. But without anything to authenticate any brand or 
trading activity on the part of the sender, I dont think I can rely on this email as proof of 
purchase from a jeweller. 
Ive seen no satisfactory evidence to show how Mr V obtained the cash to purchase the 
watch. Mr V hasnt shown us any cash withdrawal he made from the trust account or any 
other account for this purpose. Im aware of a transfer of £14,740 in February 2019 to 
another persons account, but that was to pay for a car. There was also a transfer of £19,000 
in April 2021, but that was long after the date of the watch purchase. 
Mr V has said he had cash at home from going to the casino. I accept that Mr V did gamble. 
But Mr V told us that he bought the watch as an investment asset with over £40,000 from his 
trust funds, in order that he wouldnt spend all the money. The suggestion that the cash used 
to buy the watch came from a casino seems to me to be at odds with this explanation. 
Mr V says he went to the casino and bookmakers many times and took his winnings in cash, 
but couldnt return the funds to his account because it was a trust account, so he had no 
choice but to keep the money in cash. But Mr V had other bank accounts and Im therefore 
not persuaded that he would have been forced to keep so much money in cash. The fact 
remains that there is no documentary evidence of the source of the cash for the watch 
purchase.Mr V has said he would have a further look through his statements. But weve received no 
further evidence about the source of the cash. 
I should also add that no receipt, email or other evidence has been provided for the transfer 
of the watch to the buyer in 2020 following the online sale.
Given the very high value of the watch, which Mr V says he bought as an investment, I find it 
significant that Mr V has been unable to provide copies of any receipts, documents or emails 
from either its purchase or its sale, and that the origin of the cash for its purchase remains 
undocumented. In my view, there is insufficient evidence to support Mr Vs version of events 
regarding the purchase and sale of the watch. This is important because it means that Im 
not persuaded that the evidence, as it stands, shows that Mr V has suffered the loss of a 
watch.
Throughout this complaint Mr V has put his case vigorously, maintaining that he has suffered 
a substantial loss at the hands of a fraudster. But I couldnt fairly or reasonably require the 
bank to compensate Mr V by absorbing the BBL debt when there is, in my view, so little 
contemporaneous evidence of the loss.
In any event, even if I were satisfied that Mr V had owned the watch and had then passed it 
to a new owner, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint, because Im not persuaded that the 
BBL was taken out without Mr Vs knowledge or consent, for the reasons given above.
Mr Vs vulnerability
As a result of his injury, Mr V has a physical disability and a number of other vulnerabilities, 
including short-term memory issues. Barclays has said it tried to obtain details of reasonable 
adjustments that Mr V would want to support him, but was unable to do so.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered whether adjustments by the bank could have 
changed the outcome. If my decision turned on the matter of negligence in giving away the 
security code, then the issue of adjustments might have had a bearing on the outcome. But, 
in my view, negligence isnt the issue here. The reason why Im not upholding the complaint 
is that Im not persuaded either that the BBL application was made without Mr Vs knowledge 
or consent, or that Mr V bought and sold the watch. I dont think any findings I might make 
on the banks actions regarding Mr Vs vulnerability would make any difference to those 
conclusions.
In conclusion
Taken all together, the evidence doesnt, in my view, support a version of events in which a 
third party applied for the BBL without the knowledge or consent of Mr V, in order to trick 
Mr V into parting with a watch he owned.
My final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that I dont think Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by seeking repayment of the BBL. I therefore dont uphold 
this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman