DRN-2561641
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank plc applied interest to his credit card account even 
though it had told him the rate of interest would be 0%.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card account with Sainsburys. He says he applied for a 0% balance 
transfer. He contacted Sainsburys at the time and was told that the rate of interest would be 
0%. He was shocked when he discovered in May 2020 that even though hed made 
payments to the account the outstanding balance had hardly changed. He says he was 
being charged 70% interest. He contacted Sainsburys but he says its staff were rude and 
unhelpful.
He complained to Sainsburys. It looked into his complaint. It said that Mr P had applied for a 
money transfer and not a balance transfer from his credit card. A money transfer was a cash 
transaction and the rate of interest was the standard rate of 25.69%. It said Mr P had repaid 
the outstanding balance and as a gesture of goodwill it had waived any residual interest.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that Mr P had applied for a money 
transfer and that was why hed been charged the standard rate. He said this information was 
available on Mr Ps statements. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed never seen a copy of the credit card agreement. Our 
investigator arranged for a copy of the agreement to be sent to him. Mr P said this hadnt 
been provided to him previously and wasnt available online. He also said the rates hed 
been charged didnt reflect what was in the agreement. 
Our investigator considered what Mr P had said but he didnt change his view. He said Mr P 
had been presented with the agreement online and hed signed it electronically. So, he was 
satisfied hed seen the agreement. He also said Mr P was registered for online banking and 
hed been sent his statements online. The statements had shown hed taken out a money 
transfer and hed been charged interest at the standard rate.
Our investigator said Sainsburys hadnt been able to locate a copy of the call Mr P said hed 
made to it. But, he thought that if Sainsburys had spoken to him about balance transfers 
then it was the case it wouldve mentioned the 0% rate it offered for balance transfers. Mr P 
hadnt taken a balance transfer  hed taken a money transfer. 
Mr P didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps complaint is that Sainsburys charged him interest after he asked it to transfer money 
from his credit card to his current account. He believed the interest rate would be 0%. 
Sainsburys says that it did offer 0% interest on balance transfers. But it says Mr P applied 
for a money transfer and thats why he was charged the standard rate. 
It is not in dispute that Mr P asked Sainsburys to transfer money from his credit card to his 
current account. And, the terms and conditions describe that request as a money transfer.
So, the crux of this complaint is whether Sainsburys did enough to make clear to Mr P that 
there was a difference between a balance transfer (where money is transferred from one 
credit card to another) and a money transfer (where money is transferred from a credit card 
account to a current account). 
Ive looked at all of the information Mr P was provided with when he applied for the credit 
card:
The phone call before he applied
Mr P told our service he telephoned Sainsburys before he applied for the card. He says he 
was told that the application he was making was for a 0% balance transfer. Sainsburys 
disputes this. It says theres no record of the call Mr P is referring to and it cannot provide 
any further information about this call.
Sainsburys has been able to provide a copy of a call from Mr P, which took place on 16 
September 2019, which was after hed applied for the card. Ive commented on that call later 
in this decision.
The application form
Mr P applied online. I can see he was told he was applying for a Balance Transfer credit 
card. He was then presented with Important information to read before he started the 
application process. This included five bullet points. Four of the bullet points related to 
balance transfers and the fees that applied. The fourth bullet point on the list referred to 
money transfers. It said:
Interest is charged on money transfers at the standard cash interest rate. A 
fee of 4% (minimum £4) at application. The charge will depend on your 
current offer thereafter. Check the Summary Box for details.
In order to read the Summary Box, Mr P wouldve had to click on the link. It wasnt a 
requirement that he should do that.
Further information is then presented including a section entitled Important Information. 
This included confirmation that he was agreeing to receive his monthly statements and other 
communications electronically. He was also told hed be sent the terms and conditions once 
his application was approved. He then clicked to confirm that hed read this information and 
he was eligible to apply.
Having looked at the information that was presented to Mr P before he applied, Im not 
persuaded that Sainsburys did enough to bring the difference between a money transfer 
and a balance transfer to his attention. Apart from the one bullet point, referred to above, 
there was no other information about money transfers. If Mr P had clicked on the link to the 
Summary Box, then he wouldve been able to get more information about money transfers. 
But, as Ive said, Sainsburys didnt require him to do that.It is the case that Mr P proceeded to apply online. So, Ive looked at how he applied for the 
money transfer and the information he was presented with. 
There was a section on the application form entitled Your new card account. Mr P was 
presented with four question here which he had to respond to by clicking Yes or No. 
These included the following questions:
Would you like to transfer a balance from another card to your new card 
He answered No
He was then asked
Would you like to transfer money from your new card to your current account
He answered Yes
So, Im satisfied Mr P was presented with a choice about what type of transfer he wanted. 
He made that selection by clicking yes to transfer money to a current account. 
He was then presented with a box - Your money transfer details. This set out that a money 
transfer allowed him to transfer money from his Sainsburys credit card to his current 
account. He was told a handling fee may be applied. He entered his account number, sort 
code and the amount he wanted to transfer.
There was nothing in this section of the form to alert him to the interest rate that would apply 
to a money transfer or that, unlike a balance transfer, interest would be charged at the 
standard rate without any 0% promotional period. He was alerted to the fact that a handling 
fee might apply. 
Mr P submitted his application and it was accepted. 
Accepting the credit card agreement
After his application was accepted Mr P was presented, online, with several documents. He 
was asked to review these documents before signing the agreement for the card.
The Summary Box 
In line with best practice guidelines, Sainsburys provided Mr P with a Summary Box before 
he was asked to sign the agreement. The purpose of the Summary Box is to provide the 
consumer with meaningful information about the key features of the credit card  without 
overloading the consumer with information. 
In this case, I can see that the Summary Box included all of the information that is required 
under the best practice guidelines.  It clearly stated that, unlike a balance transfer, there was 
no 0% promotional period for a money transfer.
Your credit card agreement  an explanation
This included a section about things that Sainsburys wanted to draw Mr Ps attention to. It 
stated that he would pay a higher interest rate for cash advances and money transfers 
compared to purchases and balance transfers.
Pre-contract credit information
This document also made reference to the different types of transaction that were available 
including money transfers and balance transfers. And, it included a section which set out the rates that applied to each type of transaction. This section also stated that balance transfers 
had a 0% promotional interest rate period whereas there was no 0% promotional interest 
rate on money transfers.
The credit card agreement
This document included information about the promotional rates and indicated there was no 
0% promotional rate on money transfers. 
The General Credit Card terms and conditions formed part of the credit card agreement. 
This document included definitions of key terms. I can see that it explained that a balance 
transfer was any amount we allow you to transfer to or from another UK credit card 
account. And, a money transfer was any amount we allow you to transfer to a UK bank 
account in your name.
Mr P was asked to accept the terms and condition for the credit card by electronically signing 
the agreement. 
Mr P told our service that he didnt recall seeing the agreement. But, having looked at the 
information Sainsburys has provided Im satisfied it did present the agreement to him online 
(and the other documents referred to above). And Im satisfied he signed the agreement 
electronically on 7 September 2019.
Having carefully considered all of the information that was presented to Mr P before he was 
asked to sign the credit card agreement, Im satisfied Sainsburys did present him with 
enough information to bring to his attention that there was a difference between a balance 
transfer and a money transfer. And, in each of the documents referred to above, Sainsburys 
did explain that there was no 0% promotional rate on money transfers. So, I think Mr P 
shouldve been aware of this difference before he accepted the agreement.
Mr P also told our service that he wasnt sent a hard copy of the agreement. I asked 
Sainsburys to provide evidence about this. It has provided us with a copy of its internal 
records which show that the agreement was posted to Mr P, at the address on its records, 
on 10 September 2019. So, even though Mr P says he didnt receive it, Im satisfied 
Sainsburys did post it to him as it was required to do.
The telephone call on 16 September 2019
As mentioned above, Mr P phoned Sainsburys on 16 September  which was after he 
applied for the card. Ive listened to that call. Mr P was concerned that although hed 
received a PIN, he hadnt received the card as yet. 
The adviser said she could see there was a request for a balance transfer and the funds 
would be transferred to his account when he activated the card. She didnt refer to a money 
transfer request.
Although Sainsburys accepts it referred to a balance transfer during this call, it says that 
this term was being used in a general sense. It is the case that there was no reference, 
during the call, to the interest rate that applied, nor did Mr P ask for any further details about 
the transfer that hed requested. So, on balance, I dont think that this changes the position 
regarding the fact hed applied for a money transfer.
But, in light of what Mr P told us about what he says he was told during a telephone call with 
Sainsburys before he applied, Ive also considered what happened after he got the card. So, 
Ive thought about whether, even if he hadnt realised hed applied for a money transfer, 
Sainsburys did enough after he signed the agreement to give him information about his 
account and the interest rate that applied.Information sent to Mr P after his credit card agreement was signed
As mentioned above, Mr P agreed that statements for the account would be sent to him 
electronically. And, he registered for internet banking with Sainsburys on 21 September 
2019. Although he didnt log into his internet banking after that date until May 2020, 
Sainsburys says it sent notifications to him, by email, to tell him each month that his 
statements were available to view. Its confirmed it held the correct email address for Mr P.
It was up to Mr P to decide whether to look at the monthly statements. This was so, even 
though he had set up a direct debit to make his payments each month. 
If he had looked at his statements he wouldve seen that hed requested a money transfer. 
Thats how the payment dated 24 September was described on his statement. And he 
wouldve been aware that interest was being charged on the amount of the money transfer 
at the standard rate. 
Each statement also included a section setting out the interest rate that applied to different 
types of transaction. And this showed that his balance was all related to a money transfer 
and that interest was being applied.
So, on balance, Im satisfied, that after the credit card became active, Sainsburys did 
enough to inform him that hed made a money transfer. It also provided him with information 
about the interest rate and the amount of interest he was being charged.
Mr P says the interest rate he was being charged doesnt reflect what was in the agreement. 
But, Ive not seen any evidence to support what hes said. The rate of interest quoted on his 
statements is in line with what was stated in the agreement.
Complaint handling
Mr P has also raised concerns about how his complaint was handled and how he was 
spoken to by the complaints team. As our investigator explained, its not for our service to tell 
Sainsburys what procedures or processes it should put in place as a business. Nor can this 
service look into Mr Ps concerns that specifically relate to a complaints process, which is not 
a regulated financial activity. So, Ive made no findings about this issue.
Summary
Having considered everything here, whilst I think Sainsburys could have done more on the 
pre-application screens to highlight the difference between a money transfer and a balance 
transfer, Im satisfied, on balance, it did present Mr P with enough information before he 
signed the agreement to alert him to the fact that there was a difference - and that it didnt 
offer a 0% promotional period on a money transfer. 
Im also satisfied that Sainsburys made monthly statements available to him online. These 
showed that hed asked for a money transfer and that interest was being charged at the 
standard rate. He didnt look at these documents. That was his choice. But, I dont think 
Sainsburys was required to do anything more, other than to let him know these statements 
were available to him.
Mr P has repaid the outstanding balance on the card and Sainsburys agreed to waive any 
residual interest as a gesture of goodwill. Whilst, I know it will come as a disappointment to 
Mr P, I dont require Sainsburys to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman