DRN-3996284
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has handled 
his claim on his home insurance. 
What happened
Mr S had home insurance with LV. In 2018 he made a claim after cracks appeared between 
his property and a newer extension. LV accepted the claim and identified the probable cause 
as some nearby trees. 
It removed the trees (felled them to their stumps) and then proceeded to monitor the 
property to see if this stabilised the movement. 
Once monitoring was completed, it said it was satisfied the tree removal had resolved the 
issue and the property had stabilised. It said it could move to superstructure repairs. 
However Mr S wasnt happy with this. He said he wasnt satisfied that the trees were the 
cause of the movement and didnt think this had been resolved as there was still significant 
cracking at his home. He also said the trees hadnt been completely removed so could still 
cause problems anyway. 
Mr S instructed his own expert to produce a report. This said that underpinning would be the 
best solution to resolve the issue. 
Mr S provided the report to LV and made a complaint. He said it should carry out 
underpinning as suggested by his own expert and it hadnt carried out sufficient monitoring 
to show the property had stabilised. 
LV didnt uphold his complaint as it said it had expert reports to support its conclusions. And 
while Mr S expert had said underpinning is required, they hadnt commented on the cause 
of the subsidence or explained why this was needed.
Unhappy with this response Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said LV had relied on evidence from experts and she found this more persuasive than 
Mr S own expert report. So she didnt think LV had acted unfairly.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He responded with a number of points, I 
have summarised the key ones below. He thought:
The trees hadnt been removed and continue to grow.
The monitoring carried out was not done correctly and gave inaccurate readings.
A scope of works had still not been agreed nor has a cash settlement been offered, 
so the claim isnt able to move forwards anyway.
He didnt trust the opinion of LVs expert. 
Due to climate change there is more extreme weather and without underpinning this 
wont be resolved. 
This service has the power to appoint independent experts to review claims and this 
should be done in this instance. 
Our investigator considered Mr S points but they didnt change her outcome. So the matter 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided a very large amount of information in relation to this case. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not responded to every point hes raised individually. Instead Ive 
focussed on the things I consider to be most relevant to my outcome. However I wish to 
reassure Mr S that Ive read and considered everything that has been provided carefully 
when coming to a decision.
I also note Mr S request for details about the letters he has sent this service. I can see our 
investigator has sent copies of all the letters we have on file, but Mr S has asked for further 
clarity about the letters we have received from him. I want to reassure Mr S that after reading 
all the letters we have on file  provided by both him and LV  Ive seen nothing that 
suggests any are missing. And as Im satisfied I have all the information I need to come to a 
decision, I see no reason to delay this. 
The cause of the subsidence and work required to resolve it
Mr S has said he doesnt agree that LV has correctly identified the cause of the subsidence 
at his property. He says they used unorthodox monitoring methods and havent taken into 
account the impact of climate change on the movement. 
Ive looked at the monitoring and reports carried out by LV. It instructed a loss adjuster that 
is a subsidence expert to review the damage and comment on the monitoring. And it also 
instructed an arborist to report on the tree removal. I can see from their reports and guidance 
that LV has followed the advice and recommendations, and this is what Id expect it to do in 
the circumstances. 
Mr S has provided a report from his own expert  that concludes underpinning should be 
carried out to stabilise the property. It states as follows:
The movement is of such a magnitude and damage caused sufficiently significant that I am 
of the opinion that remediation work is necessary. Given that the stabilisation of subsidence 
is normally achieved by underpinning the foundations of the affected structure this is what I 
recommend be undertaken.
So while it recommends underpinning, it doesnt explain why this is necessary instead of 
other less invasive options. Further, while the report concludes Mr S property has an issue 
with subsidence, it doesnt offer opinion on the cause of this. 
Underpinning is a method of strengthening the foundations of a house, where it is unstable 
due to subsidence. It is the most effective way of stabilising a property. However it is an expensive and expansive undertaking and is usually only used in extreme circumstances 
where movement hasnt been stabilised by other means. 
Here, as LV has identified the cause of the damage, removed it and monitoring has shown 
the property has since stabilised, Im satisfied its followed a fair process. And Ive not seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that underpinning is necessary here. 
I note Mr S comments about climate change causing the damage rather than the trees. As 
an insurer it is for LV to identify what is impacting Mr S own property and resolve that issue. 
It isnt the purpose of insurance to provide protection for possible future causes. And Im 
satisfied this is what LV has done. 
Mr S has also raised concerns about the methods LVs experts have used to monitor the 
property. However Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the monitoring was carried out 
incorrectly. And as they are experts in subsidence, Im satisfied LV acted reasonably by 
following their readings and recommendations. 
Tree removal
Mr S has said that while LV has said its removed the offending trees, it has actually only 
reduced them down to their stumps which means they will continue growing. So LV hasnt 
resolved what it considers to be the cause of the problem.
LV has provided the report from its arborist. Its also provided further explanation from its 
technical team in response to questions Ive had about the report. 
This report confirms that felling the trees to the ground is sufficient to remove the problem, 
as long as the stumps are sufficiently maintained. As this is the action LV has carried out, Im 
satisfied that it has followed the recommendation of its expert. And the maintenance required 
is no greater than reasonable maintenance required for any property. 
As Mr S hasnt provided any expert evidence to show the tree removal hasnt been 
successful, Im more persuaded by LVs expert report. 
Claim going forwards
Mr S has said that LV has failed to provide either a scope of works or an amount for a cash 
settlement. And this means the claim hasnt progressed any further. While it isnt the role of 
this service to interfere with the handling of ongoing claims, I would expect both sides to now 
allow the claim to progress to the repair stage as recommended by LV. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman