DRN-3374835
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt close her account when she asked it to, 
and continued to charge her account fees on an account she says she wasnt using. Ms S is 
unhappy that this has resulted in a late payment marker being recorded for this account on 
her credit file.
What happened
Ms S held a current account with Lloyds which incurred a monthly fee. Ms S says she did not 
use this account and that she had previously asked for it to be closed. Nonetheless, Ms S 
regularly paid in funds to cover the account fee and occasional small transactions she made.
In June 2021 the account fee was taken from the account, taking it into an unarranged 
overdraft, but Ms S didnt pay any funds in to cover that fee. Ms S did ultimately bring the 
account back into credit in July 2021, but as the account had been in an unarranged 
overdraft for more than 35 days, Lloyds recorded a late payment marker for that month on 
Ms Ss credit file. 
Ms S was concerned by this late payment marker and contacted Lloyds for advice. After 
discussing the matter with several individuals at the bank, Ms S was ultimately told that as 
no bank error had occurred the late payment marker would not be removed. Ms S was 
unhappy with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Ms Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Lloyds had 
acted unfairly. Ms S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate that Ms S says she had previously asked for her account to be closed. But 
having listened to Ms S conversations with Lloyds in August 2021 its clear that she had 
been told she needed to write in to close her account but had not done so. Ms S says in 
those calls that she had simply not got round to it and that she had thought she might use 
the account again.
And Ms S was using the account, there were occasional small transactions out of the 
account, so it wouldnt be classed as dormant. Ms S was also regularly paying funds in to 
cover those small transactions and the regular account fee, so its clear she was aware the 
fee was being applied and that she needed to make payments to cover that fee. 
With all this in mind, I think it was an oversight on Ms S part that led to her failing to make a 
payment to cover the June 2021 account fee and therefore going into an unarranged 
overdraft. So as there was no bank error here I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds did 
anything wrong in recording the late payment marker for that month on Ms S credit file, it is 
an accurate representation of what had happened.
I know this will be disappointing to Ms S, but Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt acted 
inappropriately or unfairly here, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman