DRN-1769312
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc, trading as 'Royal 
Bank of Scotland', wont refund them for a failed ATM cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr K tried to withdraw £400 from an ATM outside a post office. He said he needed the 
money to pay a mechanic and for shopping. However, the machine didnt dispense the cash. 
Mr K said a message on the screen told him that the ATM couldnt dispense more than 
£250. Mr K said he cancelled the transaction and returned home because he remembered 
he had cash at home. 
He didnt recall seeing anyone else at the ATM.
Mr K said he checked his account online the next day and saw that £400 had debited his 
account.
He called NatWest to query the debit. It made enquiries of the ATM owner who told it there 
had been no reported faults or errors with the ATM. NatWest decided not to refund the £400 
but paid Mr K and Mrs K £30 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K and Mrs K werent happy with this outcome so they asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into their complaint but decided not to uphold it. She said the ATM 
owner provided evidence that showed:
the cash was dispensed
the machine balanced at the end of the week
there was no surplus cash
there was no cash in the purge bin
In addition, the ATM owner said theres no limit on the amount of cash a machine can 
dispense.
Mr K and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators view. They asked for CCTV footage from 
the ATM owner.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts, the transaction details 
and the evidence. Mr K, Mrs K and NatWest have read the investigators view, so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can 
assure Mr K and Mrs K that Ive read the file, including their comments on the view.Where a consumer complains they didnt receive cash from an ATM, we will ask for various 
data from the ATM owner. In particular, the journal roll, which is an electronic record of all 
the transactions that day. We will also ask for evidence that the ATM balanced that day or in 
that accounting period. If cash wasnt dispensed then it would show as a surplus. In addition, 
we ask for data from the purge box (where unused notes are returned); details of whether 
there were any reported errors with the ATM or other claims raised that day, and any other 
relevant information to demonstrate whether there was a technical fault or any other 
deficiency. This includes the consumers description of environment and people at the ATM.
We may also ask for CCTV footage but this is usually not available after 30 days and it 
appears there was none in this case.
This information helps me to reach a conclusion on what is most likely to have happened. 
Having reviewed the evidence, it seems to me that there are three possible scenarios to 
explain what happened:
Mr K received the cash
a cash trap or fraud device was fitted to the ATM or there was a mechanical fault, or
Mr K didnt wait long enough at the ATM, the cash was dispensed after he had left 
and a third party picked up the money.
Mr K didnt mention anything unusual or suspicious about the ATM so it seems unlikely there 
was a cash trap or fraud device fitted to the ATM. The ATM owner has also confirmed there 
were no other recorded complaints or faults with the machine. And the journal roll shows 
there was a customer who used the ATM at 6pm, immediately before Mr K, who appeared to 
have made a successful transaction. 
Ive looked at Mr Ks transaction. According to the journal roll, he entered his debit card and 
PIN at 6.01pm. He requested £400 and the cash was taken at 6.02.31 pm. There are no 
recorded errors, failed or cancelled transactions on the journal roll. If there were any errors 
then I would normally expect to see them on the journal roll. But there are none, so Im 
satisfied no errors occurred when Mr K tried to use the machine.
The journal roll shows another customer used the ATM at 6.06:12 pm. Again, it appears the 
transaction was completed successfully.
Ive seen an extract from the balance sheet. It shows the ATM balanced at the end of that 
week. There was no surplus cash or any retracted notes. Again, this suggests that the £400 
was dispensed and not retracted.
Mr Ks evidence that there was a message saying the machine couldnt dispense more than 
£250 also conflicts with other evidence. The ATM owner confirmed there were no limits on 
its individual machines. NatWest said Mr Ks own daily cash withdrawal limit was £800 and 
he had enough money in his account to withdraw £400. So the message wouldve been 
unusual in the circumstances.
Based on the technical evidence, Im afraid I think its more likely than not, that the ATM 
dispensed the cash. Its possible Mr K left the machine before the cash was dispensed and 
the money was taken by a third party. I know the investigator thought this was unlikely as Mr 
K said there was no one else around. But even if this happened, then it would be treated no 
differently to any other theft or street robbery and the bank wouldnt be liable for the loss.
So, Im afraid I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to refuse a refund.Im sorry to send such disappointing news and for  the inconvenience caused by losing this 
money but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman