DRN-2912231
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited wont accept their home insurance 
claim for water damage to their property.
What happened
In 2016, Mr A and Mrs B made a claim to Aviva under their home insurance policy following 
a blockage to one of their drains. Aviva accepted the claim and the damaged drain was 
repaired but foul water was later discovered in the sub-floor beneath their home which 
returned several times after being pumped away. Eventually Aviva said the presence of the 
water in the sub-floor water wasnt caused by an insured event and wasnt related to the 
claim for the damaged pipe. Aviva said it was due to maintenance issues with the property. 
Mr A and Mrs B disagreed with Aviva and said the water was causing a great deal of 
damage to their property. They made a complaint to this service and a final decision was 
issued by one of my ombudsman colleagues in June 2020. She required that Aviva arrange 
for an independent surveyor, and an independent damp specialist, to carry inspections to 
establish the source of the water ingress and the cause of damage to the property. She also 
said that Aviva should put right any damage found to be linked to an insured event, or to 
Mr A and Mrs Bs previous claim.
The inspections were arranged and reports were provided. Having reviewed the surveyors 
and specialists reports, Aviva told Mr A and Mrs B that it was declining the claim because 
there was no evidence that the damage was caused by an event covered under their policy. 
Mr A and Mrs B complained to Aviva. It looked into their complaint but didnt change its 
mind. It said that the damage had been caused by maintenance issues and defects in the 
design of the property, and therefore wasnt covered. 
Mr A and Mrs B disagreed with Avivas conclusions so they made another complaint to this 
service. They said they thought the damage should be covered under the flood section of the 
policy. They also said that they were unhappy that Aviva failed to highlight the maintenance 
issues with the property to them during any of the visits it carried out since 2016. 
Our investigator looked into Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. 
He said that the surveyor had visited the property in October 2020 and had reported that, 
given the time thatd passed since the claim was first made (in 2016) it was difficult to say 
exactly what had caused foul water to enter the sub-floor when it was first noticed or whether 
it was have been linked to the drainage defects. He went on to say that the surveyor had 
reported a number of other defects throughout the property that were allowing water to 
continually ingress the sub-floor since then. 
Our investigator noted that the damp specialist reported, amongst other things, that the 
property had high moisture readings in a number of areas, that the ventilation of the sub-
floor was inadequate, thereby causing condensation, that the lack of lead flashing to the 
front of the property was allowing water to penetrate the wall cavity and that there was 
damage to the roof allowing water penetration. 
So, our investigator said it was clear the property was suffering from a number of 
maintenance issues and that the damp and damage throughout were coming from a number 
of sources rather than any single insured event. Our investigator didnt think the damage 
currently being experienced was related to the original repair to the drain in 2016. He went 
on to say that whilst there had arguably been an inundation of water, meaning that the 
policys flood peril could be applied, there was the policy exclusion for faulty workmanship, 
design and materials which could be applied to defeat any flood claim. And he said there 
was a policy requirement to keep the property in a reasonable state of repair. So he said he 
didnt think the damage was covered by the policy nor that Aviva had unfairly declined Mr A 
and Mrs Bs claim. 
Mr A and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators findings. They provided information from 
various websites about the nature of rising damp and wet rot and said that given the nature 
of the damage, the water in the sub-floor cannot have been surface water and could only 
have been groundwater. They said this indicated that the failed drain contributed significantly 
to the problem and that the damage should therefore be covered under their policy.
Our investigator asked Aviva and the surveyor to comment on what Mr A and Mrs B had 
said. The surveyor who provided the report said that the water in the sub-floor was coming 
from the lack of an effective damp proof course (DPC)  as stated in the report. Our 
investigator said that this had allowed the damp to rise from the sub-floor through the walls, 
into contact with the timber floor joists to cause wet rot. So our investigator said that he was 
still persuaded that the main cause of the damage to Mr A and Mrs Bs home was the 
defects in the construction and maintenance of the property, as noted in the reports, which 
wasnt covered by their policy.  
Mr A and Mrs B said they wanted the complaint referred for an ombudsmans decision. They 
said that Aviva had never highlighted the issue with their DPC during any of its visits and 
that, if it had, they couldve claimed under its warranty and had the problems resolved. And 
they said it wasnt fair for Aviva to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim. They also said 
that before the drain was damaged thered been no problems with the property so the drain 
issue had to be the root cause of the damage. 
The complaint was referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr A and Mrs B believe all the water damage in their property should either 
be covered by their policys flood peril or be covered because Aviva made errors early on in 
the claim. But, having reviewed all the evidence, Im unable to agree. I think that Aviva has 
shown, even if it could be said that there had been a flood, that it can successfully apply the 
policy exclusion for faulty workmanship, design and materials, as well as rely on the policy 
condition that requires the policyholder to maintain their property in a reasonable state of 
repair. That means I dont think Aviva  having complied with my colleagues previous award 
to arrange for a surveyor and a damp specialist to inspect the damage and establish the 
source of the water ingress  has unreasonably declined Mr A and Mrs Bs claim. I 
appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A and Mrs B but Ill explain how 
Ive reached it. 
Ive reviewed the two reports  from the independent surveyor and the independent damp 
specialist. And Ive also read the building survey Mr A and Mrs B had done in 2019. This 
complaint concerns Avivas decision to decline Mr A and Mrs Bs claim because there was no evidence that an insured event covered by the policy had occurred. I have to decide if 
that was a reasonable and fair decision for Aviva to have reached. 
The surveyor noted that, given the passage of time, it was difficult to say exactly what the 
cause of foul water entering the sub-floor was in 2016 or whether it was linked to the 
drainage defects which were the subject of the original claim at that time. But, he found a 
number of other defects all over the property that have allowed water to continually enter the 
sub-floor since then. These included: 
ground water entering the sub-floor naturally, as its below ground level;
the front drive sloping towards the property with no drain in situ to divert water away from 
the house and a bridged DPC;
an airbrick at the same level as the drive allowing rainwater to enter the sub-floor;
the rainwater piping and guttering not being properly connected and maintained 
preventing rainwater from draining away effectively;
rainwater from a neighbouring property running off directly onto Mr A and Mrs Bs 
property;
defects with the roof of the garage and extension allowing water to discharge onto
the ground below;
issues with sealant around a window, lack of a window cill on one window so rainwater 
isnt being diverted away from the wall and missing lintels above others; 
perished brickwork towards the rear of the property allowing water to enter the walls;
dampness to the right-hand side gable wall caused by the defects with the garage, 
allowing rainwater to penetrate the wall over time;
the DPC being breached in the kitchen area, causing extensive dampness and being 
below ground level beneath the bay window so splashing rainwater was wetting the 
brickwork above the DPC;
parts of the property being poorly constructed or having had substandard repairs carried 
out which has caused structural movement and allowed more rainwater to enter the 
property;
the DPC is too low to prevent penetrating damp throughout the property;
cracking in the walls caused by poor design and installation of the extension.
And the damp specialist observed high moisture readings and damp throughout the 
property, inadequate sub-floor ventilation causing a build-up of condensation, issues with the 
lead flashing and damage to the roof both allowing water to penetrate, and perished 
brickwork also allowing water to penetrate. He concluded that ventilation needed to improve 
throughout the property to prevent further dampness and that whilst the broken drain may 
well have contributed to ground water affecting the sub-floor originally, it had been an 
ongoing problem since then as a result of poor ventilation and poorly maintained walls. 
Specifically he commented: I believe the occupants are in the mistaken belief the broken 
drain has caused all of the ground floor problems in this property, unfortunately, rising 
dampness and timber joists butting into these damp walls will have caused most of the wet 
rot at the rear of the property, together, possibly with a lack of sub floor ventilation and 
penetrating rain water through poorly maintained exterior walls.
I cant fairly ignore the content of these reports. They are prepared by experts and to 
disregard them wouldnt be reasonable. Its reasonable to conclude from reading them that 
the damp damage (and water in the sub-floor) isnt caused by a drainage issue or any failed 
repair. There is no evidence of either. Rather both reports conclude that the damage is the 
result of groundwater entering the property as a consequence of a number of defects and 
maintenance issues with the property. Unfortunately for Mr A and Mrs B, Im unable to agree theres any evidence of an insured peril having operated such that I could require Aviva to 
consider the claim. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy, only that which is 
caused by one of the perils (or, events) listed in the policy is covered. Perils include damage 
caused by theft, fire, flood etc. It is generally the policyholders duty to show that the damage 
they are claiming for is caused by one of the perils in the policy. If they can do so then the 
insurer must settle the claim, unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat the 
claim. I know that Mr A and Mrs B say that their property has been damaged by flood but I 
dont think the expert evidence Ive seen (and referred to above) allows me to reasonably 
agree with them. Similarly, there is no evidence that the repairs to the drains in 2016 have 
failed and are causing the damage. I think its reasonable to conclude that the damage to 
Mr A and Mrs Bs home wouldnt have occurred were it not for the maintenance issues and 
construction defects that Ive mentioned above. 
Ive considered the evidence Mr A and Mrs B have provided from internet websites but it is 
generic, rather than specific, evidence. It wouldnt be reasonable of me to place more weight 
on generic internet evidence than on that produced by experts who have visited the property 
and inspected the damage. And in any event, I note that one of the websites provided by 
Mr A and Mrs B states that rainfall can accumulate and saturate the soil thats in contact with 
the brickwork below ground level particularly when, as is the case at Mr A and Mrs Bs 
property, the DPC is below ground level.
Ive also considered the 2019 buildings report Mr A and Mrs B sent us and I note that similar 
maintenance issues and construction defects were identified within that. The photographs 
show displaced and cracked roof tiles, removed lead flashing, airbricks at floor level, the 
dilapidated garage requiring a new roof and a rainwater pipe discharging on to the driveway 
not into a gulley causing extensive damp to the low-level brickwork.
And Ive thought too about Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint that Aviva didnt make them aware of
the majority of the problems in the property. But it wasnt Avivas responsibility to report on 
the general condition of the property  just to assess whether the claim was covered. And I 
understand that Aviva had highlighted to Mr A and Mrs B the potential problems with their 
DPC in 2016.
Even if I were to accept the damage to Mr A and Mrs Bs home could be said to be the result 
of flooding, I think, given the evidence Ive referred to, that Aviva could fairly and reasonably 
apply the policy exclusion for faulty workmanship, design and materials to defeat any flood 
claim. It could also rely on the general policy condition that the property must be kept in a 
reasonable state of repair.
So, if follows that this is a complaint that Im unable to fairly uphold. I dont think Avivas 
decision to decline Mr A and Mrs Bs claim on the basis the damage wasnt caused by any of 
the events listed in the policy was an unreasonable one for it to have made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman