DRN-1967813
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Everyday Loans Limited mis-sold him two personal loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr A took out the loans and associated PPI in September 2009 and July 2011, during 
meetings.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr A says he was led to believe that the loans would be withheld if he didnt say yes to the 
PPI. From what we know of Everyday Loans sales process, the application for the loan 
would have been done over the phone. If the loan was agreed in principle, the applicant then 
went into a branch to complete the paperwork. Its therefore likely that Mr A knew that hed 
already been accepted for the loans prior to the discussion about PPI which then took place 
in branch.
Everyday Loans has provided most of the paperwork from the sales. The credit agreements 
had boxes to tick to either request or decline PPI and Mr A has ticked the box to request the 
policies. The Statement of Price for the policies also stated that the PPI was optional and not 
a condition of the loan. Ive also seen the Needs Analysis Form from both sales in which the 
adviser recommended additional insurance that Mr A declined. If, as Mr A has suggested, he 
was made to feel that he had to buy insurance to ensure the loans were agreed, I might 
have expected him to end up buying the other available insurance options as well. Instead, 
the forms indicate that he declined because he didnt feel he had a need for those particular 
policies.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr A has said, but the sales happened a long time ago 
and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr As memory has faded. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that the PPI wasnt presented as optional. It seems most likely to me that Mr A decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Everyday Loans advised Mr A to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr As circumstances at the 
time, the policies were suitable for him.
Mr A has told us that his employer would have given his six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay if he was off work sick. But the policies would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay for. And Mr A 
has told us that he didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. He has 
said that his mother would have helped. But asking family to pay your debts for you would 
presumably be a last resort and other people cant always be relied upon as their 
circumstances can change. Overall, I consider that Mr A had a need for the policies and 
could have benefitted from them at what would have been a difficult time.
Everyday Loans also needed to provide sufficient information for Mr A to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
As our adjudicator has explained, the PPI premiums were structured as a percentage of the 
outstanding loan balance and included in the (fixed) overall monthly repayment . This meant 
that the proportion of the monthly payment that was attributable to the PPI premium was 
higher at the start of the loan, when the loan balance was highest and so Mr A was paying 
less towards his loan than he might have thought at that stage. This affected the rate at 
which the outstanding balance fell over the term and meant that more interest was incurred. 
Everyday Loans didnt tell Mr A this and instead provided details of the average monthly cost 
of the policies. Mr A has said that the interest rate applicable to the premiums was incredibly 
high. Mr A paid £62.11 in total and £2.96 per month additional interest on the first loan as a 
result of the PPI. He paid £71.89 in total and £2.27 per month additional interest on the 
second loan. Im not persuaded that, if these costs had been highlighted, it would have 
caused Mr A to make a different decision. As I consider that Mr A had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to 
change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything Everyday Loans may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing that Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right. It follows 
that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman