DRN-4308967
The complaint
Miss D says Vanquis Bank Limited did not complete adequate checks when it lifted her 
Repayment Option Plan (ROP) freeze, nor did it monitor her spend ongoing. 
What happened
Miss D was unable to work due to mental health issues so she contacted Vanquis to make a 
ROP claim in July 2018. This meant her account was frozen, interest was stopped and she 
did not need to make repayments for 24 months. She initiated a second claim in August 
2020.
On 27 August 2021 Miss D called Vanquis to clear her balance in full and order a new card 
and PIN, ending her ROP claim. She confirmed she was back up and running, at the end of 
her recovery, and would now be able to manage her account. She said she did not need any 
ongoing support.
Miss D says Vanquis should have completed more checks before ending her claim and 
monitored her card usage afterwards given her vulnerabilities.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ds complaint. She said when Vanquis ended the claim 
it checked Miss D felt able to manage her account without support. It was not increasing her 
credit limit so it didnt need to carry out further checks. She noted Miss D had repaid the 
account in full and said she didnt feel there were any reasons for Vanquis to be concerned.
Miss D disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened carefully to the call from 27 August 2021 to decide if Vanquis responded 
appropriately to Miss Ds request. I find that it did  after she asked for a new card and PIN it 
checked with her that her situation had changed and she confirmed she was at the end of 
her recovery. Vanquis asked if she needed any support ongoing and Miss D said she would 
be able to manage her account independently. I dont think there were any indications on the 
call that this would not be the case. And as Vanquis was not increasing the credit available 
to Miss D I dont think it was unfair it did not carry out an affordability assessment at that 
point. Once active again Miss Ds account would fall into its ongoing account management 
strategies and policies which would assess her ongoing creditworthiness. 
With regards her subsequent use of the card, I havent seen any evidence that there were 
any reasons Vanquis ought to have intervened. It has told us Miss D used a significant 
amount of her limit on two occasions after August 2021 and repaid her balance in full twice.
I am not persuaded this pattern of card use ought to have triggered any intervention from 
Vanquis. I think it treated Miss D fairly. I know Miss D disagrees due to her prior 
vulnerabilities. But the principle we follow is that a lender should ensure vulnerable 
customers experience outcomes that are in line with outcomes received by other customers 
who may not be vulnerable. I am satisfied that was the case here.  
It follows I do not find Vanquis did anything wrong.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman