DRN-2794217
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) has unreasonably
refused to deal with her claim and cancelled her motor insurance policy on the basis that it believes
she has made a false claim.
  
What happened
Mrs N said her car was hit when parked on the evening of 19 November 2020 when she was
delivering something to a nearby house, by a van which was part of a fleet belonging to a
well-known van hire company.
She said the van driver accepted full responsibility for causing the accident. Mrs N also
registered her claim for her car damage with UKI.
Mrs N said communication from UKI was slow with little or no updates until she was asked to
undergo a video interview on 14 December 2020 where she went through the entire event
on a step by step basis.
After this, UKI told Mrs N it wasnt satisfied the accident happened as she said, and it didnt
think the damage marks are her car showed this accident happened as she said. It also said
the other driver was a business partner with her partners brother. So, it had concluded the
accident was staged in order to obtain the market value of her car.
On this basis it cancelled her policy. Mrs N brought her complaint to us and obtained an
engineers report on the damage to her car, which said the cost of repairing was in the
region of £30,000. Mrs N has since said she is now getting her car repaired.
The investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. Mrs N didnt agree so her
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2021 and I said the following:
Im considering upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First it appears from what Mrs N said that the van driver has admitted liability for the 
causing the damage to Mrs Ns car. However, Ive not seen any evidence from the 
other drivers insurers to show this, either from Mrs N or UKI. Theres also no 
evidence whatsoever that UKI investigated any matters with the other driver or his 
insurers. Given Mrs Ns account of the accident, which doesnt seem to be disputed, 
her car was parked at the side of the road whilst she delivered something to a person 
in a nearby house. Therefore, its wholly unlikely Mrs N could ever be held as 
contributory negligent in causing this accident since she wasnt even in her car and 
theres no evidence that she left it abandoned in the middle of the road. So, theres 
little reason that I can see as to why UKI are concerned here, as all its concerns
are for the other drivers insurers to investigate as to the extent of the accident 
related damage to Mrs Ns car, not UKI, since theres no evidence before me which 
shows the other driver wasnt insured. In any event Ive seen no copy 
correspondence between UKI and the other drivers insurer to ascertain the position 
on liability with the other drivers insurers and there ought to be some to disclose to 
us, to further explain UKIs stance on the matter.
UKIs file is consequently grossly incomplete.
It has produced a nine-page email trial between UKIs engineer and UKIs case 
handler. For ease of reference I shall call UKIs case handler AO and UKIs engineer 
MG. Sadly the email trail isnt complete either, as it appears to start off in the middle 
of a conversation between these two people, who are making reference to previous 
discussions and conclusions, which arent discussed in full at all.
The email discussion starts on 27 November 2020 talking about MG needing to know 
how AO gets on with the other drivers van rental company. It talks previous 
discussions between them about the other driver having the same last name as 
someone else but doesnt give any details as to why this is at all significant. This last 
name incidentally is a very common one. But here there is no reasoning as to why 
this last name is at all relevant. The response from AO talks about the awful job on 
the damage to Mrs Ns car looking like it had been done by a kid with a crayon. 
However, I dont understand why UKI is concerned about this when theres no 
evidence before me to show that the other driver wasnt insured.
It also seems MG hadnt yet inspected Mrs Ns car because he said on 30 November 
2020 was going to try and get out to inspect this week. So, its not yet that obvious 
why its been concluded the damage was so suspect frankly. Because there is no 
evidence as to what UKI had seen at this point because Mrs Ns car apparently 
hadnt been inspected by MG at that time. We also know from Mrs Ns engineers 
report dated 15 February 2021 (some several weeks later) there appears to be 
significant damage over and above paint work marks. By 1 December 2020 AO had 
locked this case down for a full investigation and wanted to interview Mrs N. Ive not 
seen any evidence to prompt this locking down decision either. Its also apparent 
that Mrs Ns car still had not been examined by UKI as AO goes on to say he
wants to hold on till we can inspect the vehicle to avoid any shenanigans.
On 2 December 2020 MG reports back to AO saying he had paid a visit to the 
possible storage facility where Mrs Ns car was being stored, the email is unclear 
about that. The car wasnt there. He believed the owner walked off and talked to Mrs 
Ns husband or possibly brother, its not that clear or comprehensible but he said 
after he told the owner of the storage facility, he wanted to inspect the car this was 
turned down surprise, surprise. He said he drove by Mrs Ns home, but the car 
wasnt there either. He then said Mrs Ns partner called him as his was driving home 
out of the blue asking why he (MG) hadnt called him re the inspection where MG 
said, he played dumb at first not knowing who he was until he reminded me where 
he used to work and the connection. MG explained he had no need to
call him as he hadnt inspected the car.
I consider all this to be odd as there is little or no evidence before me as to why MG 
is so suspicious. It does appear from the rest of the email however that there were 
some excuses from the storage yard or garage as to why the car was not available 
for inspection. There is no evidence that UKI organised for Mrs Ns car delivered to 
its own approved repairers in order to look at it either. Theres no evidence of its 
communications with Mrs N as to where the car was, what if any issues there was in 
UKI inspecting the car properly in the normal course of events other than this email 
trail, which truly doesnt make much sense to me without further detail from UKI.The email trail continues on 2 December 2020, with AO talking about someone else 
entirely (or not someone who I can see was mentioned previously) about him 
seeming to be a very tricky customer indeed, at least we know now the whole thing 
is being orchestrated by him. I cant see any evidence relating this person back to 
any of the people connected with Mrs N or indeed the other driver. He goes to talk of 
the heaps of images of the vehicle where the damage isnt there. I assume these 
are the images taken on 25 November 2020 of Mrs Ns car (76 pages of them) but 
there is no accompanying Audatex report discussing them and no evidence to show 
how UKI got these photographs in the first place, considering the emails show clearly 
the car hasnt been inspected at this time. And he finishes off referring to the
fact MG knows this person and it will be interesting to see how he reacts now as he
definitely knows were on to him. Well get him. The him discussed is not referenced 
back to Mrs N in any way either.
The email trail ends with another email to AO from MG on 3 December 2020, where 
MG now confirms Mrs Ns car has moved from where he inspected it. But the 
previous emails talk of him not inspecting the car up this point, so thats exceptionally 
confusing, if not bizarre. But he goes to explain that the car was in an awkward place 
and not clearly visible on his previous drive bys. The car had covered .1 of a mile, 
since these images -presumably the photos dated 25 November. It goes to say that 
that I guess they have played us along whilst trying to decide the best way forward 
or to try and increase any charges they think are due! He then talks of trying to align 
any damage with the kerb height of where he thinks the accident took place.
However, there is no verified evidence detailing precisely where the accident took 
place. And lastly the email talks of him using some cleaning compound to
polish off some of the scuff marks and that he cant relate the damage to circs given.
Theres also no evidence of what precise circumstances were given to UKI and by 
whom either. He concludes all this damage is exaggerated with a view to our 
Desktop engineer TL the car based on the exaggerated repair costs of £35978.00 = 
80.7% of PAV with a view to then purchase it back with the finance cleared and 
polish off the transfer and reset the cars geometry, with a view to carry on using or 
sell it for a profit.
However, there is no normal Audatex report on the alleged damage to Mrs Ns car, 
which detail these repair costs or indeed any pre-accident value coherently. So, I 
dont know how MG knows the cost of the repair costs because first, the email trial 
above talks of Mrs Ns not being inspected yet, and secondly, the only evidence 
before me detailing any coherent account of the repair costs is an engineers report 
commissioned by Mrs N dated February 2021 at least two months after these 
discussions between AO and MG.
I can see there is an Audatex report on the damage to van which doesnt identify an 
insurer of this van either quite oddly, but there is no coherent comparison by an 
engineer of any Audatex report of the damage to Mrs Ns car with that available of 
the other drivers van, which I dont consider satisfactory. There is also no 
correspondence disclosed with the other drivers insurers beyond a broker (not 
insurer) giving the name of the driver of the van but oddly not identifying the insurer. 
Much later after the complaint was brought to this service, UKI appears to attempt to 
get Mrs Ns engineer to compare the damage to her car with the Audatex damage 
report on the van. Its incomprehensible to me that this wasnt done at the
start by either UKI or indeed the other drivers insurers in any event.As I detailed above, there appears to absolutely no dispute that Mrs Ns car was 
parked when hit by the van driver so it can never be an issue that Mrs N was 
contributorily negligent for causing the accident, therefore all this cloak and dagger 
email trail between AO and MG makes little rational sense, since it should be for the 
van drivers insurer to verify Mrs Ns damage to her car, not UKI, since on the face of 
it Mrs N cant be held at fault for this accident.
I have listened to the hour-long voice recording of a video interview by an investigator 
with Mrs N which does carefully go over the events of the accident. There is no report
accompanying this, which might have thrown some necessary light on any issues 
UKI might have with Mrs Ns claim, which I asked the investigator to get from UKI but 
UKI simply didnt provide it. Certainly, I didnt get any sense from the recording that 
Mrs N was clearly lying about anything, she said. Her responses were normal and 
there was little hesitancy or indeed little or no re-questioning by the investigator far 
more crucially, over any issues. She appeared open in all her answers and seemed 
anxious to be helpful. So, if UKI were trying to catch out Mrs N, the investigator 
asking the questions didnt appear to be that experienced in such things. However, 
without any accompanying report, the recording is insufficient to prove or show 
anything worthwhile, other than the account from Mrs N of how the accident 
occurred.
It remains incomprehensible to me that instead of negotiating with the van drivers 
insurers for liability for the accident to be accepted and for those insurers to either 
repair Mrs Ns car itself or reimburse UKI for its repairs to her car, UKI decided that 
because MG knew the owner of the storage facility, (I believe because he had 
previously worked with him), plus her partners brothers business associate was 
apparently the van driver that Mrs Ns claim was somehow fraudulent. I dont 
consider it reasonable that people would necessarily know all the business 
associates of their partners siblings in the manner which UKI assumes. I
certainly, dont at all. Mrs N was clear in the recording that she had never met him 
before too. Mrs N now tells us, she is getting her car repaired herself, which if true 
and theres no evidence to show me otherwise, doesnt add to UKIs suspicions at all.
Given UKI have alleged fraud, the burden of proof falls on it to prove such fraud or 
at least prove such alleged misrepresentation. I consider UKI hasnt done this here 
whatsoever. It also hasnt acted in Mrs Ns interests (as its supposed to do under the 
terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs N) in liaising with the other drivers 
insurers as to liability and the repair of Mrs Ns car, given there appears to be no 
dispute Mrs Ns car was parked properly at the side of the road when the accident 
happened. I find the connection between Mrs Ns partners brother and her to be too 
remote verging on fanciful without further concrete evidence and simply lacking in 
any adequate reasonable proof of some sort of set up to have this car written off. 
Whilst Mrs N wasnt working then due to the pandemic there is also no evidence of 
her financial difficulty in keeping up her repayments for this car, or indeed
any evidence concerning any difficulties in the payment of the premium to UKI. The 
evidence produced on these points doesnt appear to throw up any red flags, or none 
that UKI has brought to my attention.
It remains my view that assessment of the accident related damage plus the 
verification of the accident was more properly in the realm of the other drivers 
insurers. Sadly, there is simply no evidence that UKI even notified them of Mrs Ns 
claim and the probable future request (at least) for them to pay and/or refund the cost 
of the repair of the accident related damage to Mrs Ns car on the basis their insured 
could only be liable for the damage to Mrs Ns car given the circumstances of the 
accident.So, I consider UKIs stance on this matter to be wholly inadequate, unfair and 
unreasonable. This has caused Mrs N considerable inconvenience and indeed the 
loss of use of her car. Its my view that as Mrs N has said she is getting her car 
repaired that UKI now reimburse her the costs of these repairs assuming her car is 
now repaired, adding interest at 8% simple per year from the date she paid for the 
repairs to the date of its reimbursement, given I dont consider it reasonable for UKI 
to now try and rely on any total loss criteria. It should be able to get some refund of 
these costs from the van drivers insurers in any event. Im unaware how the accident 
has been recorded on Mrs Ns insurance record but on the basis her car was parked 
when damaged, it should be recorded as a non-fault accident, so if necessary,
UKI should amend that. In the event Mrs N hasnt got her car repaired, it should 
authorise its repair on the basis of her own engineers estimate.
It should also pay Mrs N the sum of £10 per day from the date she notified it of the 
accident to the day of the repairs. Mrs N talked of being in a hire car but theres no 
evidence who supplied that hire car. It doesnt appear to be UKI in any event. 
Therefore, I consider the loss of use sum of £10 per day to be more reasonable.
Plus, for the inconvenience and the lack of updates plus the lack of evidence 
ensuring UKIs was at all reasonable I consider UKI should pay Mrs N £750 
compensation. 
UKI also inexplicably in my view cancelled Mrs Ns policy. It hasnt in my view 
provided any, or any coherently sufficient evidence to show that this was reasonable. 
So UKI needs to remove that cancellation from all internal and external databases. If 
Mrs N has brought a new motor policy, which she would have had to do given she 
said she was driving a hire car, the likelihood of her premium being increased due to 
the cancellation is high. Her present insurers should be able to refund the extra 
charged due to the cancellation. If it refuses for whatever reason, UKI should refund 
it instead with interest too of 8% simple per year. UKI should also in any event refund 
Mrs N the premium she paid for any new policy for the remaining time this policy with 
UKI was due to run. With interest of 8% simple per year also.
Mrs N agreed with my provisional decision and also provided full details of the repair of her 
car and that it was paid for by her and a loan from a friend.
UKI unsurprisingly didnt agree with my provisional decision. It did however forward further 
documents and further email exchanges, further explaining its thought processes that this 
was a fraudulent claim. It thought that an independent inspection of the car might help clarify 
matters without being aware that Mrs N had got her car repaired herself. It also hadnt had 
any coherent conversations with the other drivers insurers, save that it appears the other 
drivers claim wasnt paid by his insurers either.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view as detailed in my provisional decision. I havent 
seen enough coherent evidence to show me that UKIs decision that Mrs Ns claim was 
fraudulent. There were no indications in her telephone interview that her account of how the 
accident occurred wasnt truthful. The accompanying report doesnt show much of note 
concerning the veracity of Mrs N. Mrs N has now paid for the repairs to her car in line with 
the original invoice she produced from her own repairers. Whilst I can see UKI had issues with Mrs Ns partner, I cant see that these pertained in the 
way it believes or to the extent it believes to Mrs Ns claim. More so since Mrs N has funded 
the repair of her car herself along with the help from a loan from a friend.
Given UKIs lack of appropriate contact with the other drivers insurers, there doesnt seem 
to be any evidence forthcoming from there either to substantiate UKIs view on the matter. It 
remains that this case was always allegedly and ostensibly the fault of the other driver but 
UKI never pursued that aspect at all.
 
Alleging fraud is a very serious matter and it shifts the burden of proof to the entity making 
the allegation to show at least on the balance of probability that the concerns had substance. 
I dont consider thats the case here from Mrs N account all the way through, plus the fact 
that her car is now repaired at her own cost. Therefore, I dont consider UKIs decision to 
refuse to pay Mrs N claim and indeed cancel her policy was reasonable.
My final decision
Therefore, for these reasons and in the very particular circumstances of this complaint, its 
my final decision that I now uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill to do the following:
As Mrs N has shown she repaired her car at her own cost, reimburse the costs of 
those repairs which Mrs N has paid adding interest of 8% simple per year from the 
date Mrs N paid for those repairs to the date of its reimbursement.
Ensure this incidence is recorded on all internal and external databases as a non 
fault incident.
Remove any notice of the cancellation of this policy from all internal and external 
databases.
If Mrs Ns new insurers refuse to refund any extra premium charged as a result of the 
cancellation of this policy, UKI must do so instead adding interest of 8% per year 
from the date Mrs B paid that sum to the date of its refund.
In addition, it should refund Mrs N the pro-rata time on risk amount of her policy with 
UKI which she had to pay to her new insurer, from the remaining time her UKI had to 
run, adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs N took out and paid the 
premium for her new policy to date it refunds her.
Pay Mrs N the sum of £10 per day for loss of use of her car from the date she 
reported the incident to the date of its payment based on the lack of any evidence 
from UKI to show it was paying for the hire car Mrs N said she had.
Pay Mrs N the sum of £750 compensation for the extensive upset and distress 
caused to Mrs N by its grossly unreasonable conduct of her claim.
If income tax is to be deducted from any of the interest awards made in this case, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Mrs N for HMRC purposes.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman