DRN-3649333
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) 
when he applied for a loan.
What happened
Mr K applied to Tesco for a loan. He applied online and called Tesco whilst completing the 
application. He submitted the application while he was still on the phone and received an 
instant response that Tesco needed to do some more checks to complete his application. 
The message said that Tesco would contact him within five working days to let him know if it 
needed any more information. It said that, once it had done all the checks, Mr K would 
receive a pack in the post within the next five working days, containing the credit agreement 
for him to sign and return. 
But Mr K needed the funds earlier than that and couldnt wait for the paperwork to be sent to 
him. He says that Tescos website hadnt made it clear before he applied that the paperwork 
would be sent to him by post and couldnt be signed digitally, meaning the timescale was 
longer than he expected. He says if hed known, he wouldnt have applied to Tesco as he 
needed the funds more urgently. He complained to Tesco and asked it to remove its search 
from his credit file and pay him some compensation. 
Mr K was also unhappy that, when Tesco approved his application, the interest rate it offered 
him was higher than the rate advertised on its website. He says he completed an eligibility 
check before applying, which said his application had an 80% chance of being accepted at 
the advertised rate.
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint. It said its website provides information about the 
timescales for applications and the possibility of them being referred for further checks. It 
said the website also makes clear that the advertised interest rate is representative and that 
Tesco will offer customers a rate based on their individual circumstances. Regarding the 
eligibility check, Tesco said that Mr K hadnt been guaranteed approval and the website 
made it clear he could still be turned down. It said that the rate offered to Mr K was shown on 
his paperwork and he wasnt obliged to accept the loan offer. Overall, Tesco didnt think it 
had done anything wrong and said it couldnt remove the search from Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K wasnt happy with Tescos response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly. But Mr K didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says that, before applying for the loan, he checked Tescos website to see what the 
timescales were for processing applications. He says he decided to go ahead as the website 
said it would take up to five working days if the application was referred. But he says it was 
only after submitting the application that he was told it would take another five working days 
for the paperwork to be sent out to him. He also says he phoned the day after submitting the 
application and was told there was a seven day delay in processing applications at the time. 
Tescos website includes information about how long it takes to get a loan. This says It may 
take between 5  10 days for us to check everything is ok. It goes on to say Once your 
returned agreement is processed, we use Faster Payments to send the money to your 
account. No timescale is given for processing the returned agreement. But the same page 
of the website says that Faster Payments can take up to 48 hours. So, I think it was clear 
from the outset that it could take up to ten days for the application to be checked and then it 
could still be a few more days before Mr K would receive the funds. Even though he didnt 
find out until later that there was a five working day timescale for the paperwork to be sent 
out, I think there was always a risk that the application wouldnt be completed quickly 
enough for Mr Ks requirements.
Mr K says it wasnt clear before he applied that the paperwork would be sent to him by post, 
rather than electronically. He says this was only apparent after he had applied. I dont think it 
was clear before Mr K submitted his application that the documents would be sent by post. 
But I havent seen anything which said they would be sent electronically either. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Tesco to send the documents by post. If it was important to Mr K for 
them to be sent electronically, I think it would have been reasonable for him to check this 
with Tesco before submitting the application.  
Tesco was running behind with processing loan applications at the time Mr K applied. This 
wasnt stated on the website. But Tesco arranged for Mr Ks application to be processed 
quickly due to the urgency and the loan approval paperwork was sent out to him in the post 
five days after he applied. I think that was reasonable. I realise it didnt fit with Mr Ks 
timescale, but I dont think that was because of an error by Tesco.
Mr K says that the reason his application was referred was that he couldnt input his full 
address history into the online form. Mr K says this was because the online form didnt allow 
more than three addresses to be entered. He says this is a fault with Tescos online form 
because, if it allowed more addresses to be entered, his application wouldnt have needed to 
be referred, so he would have got a quicker answer and might have been able to complete 
the process within his deadline. 
I think its possible the application could have been processed more quickly if the form 
allowed more address information to be added. But the application form and process are 
matters for Tesco, as are the checks it wants to make when assessing applications. Its not 
the role of this service to tell businesses how they should process applications, but rather to 
decide whether they acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I 
dont think Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Looking at the timescales overall, it wasnt guaranteed that Tesco would approve the loan 
instantly. There was always a possibility that the application would be referred, involving a 
longer timescale. Im satisfied that Tesco followed its usual procedures when processing Mr 
Ks application. I understand that he spent time on the phone chasing up the application and 
that the situation caused him stress. But I think that was largely because he needed the 
funds so quickly, rather than the result of a failing by Tesco. 
As to the interest rate, I think it was clear from Tescos website that the rate offered to Mr K 
might be higher than the advertised rate. And I dont find that the eligibility check guaranteed 
a particular rate. So I dont think Tesco acted unfairly by offering Mr K a different rate.I understand that Mr K decided not to accept Tescos loan offer and applied to another 
lender. But I dont think that means Tesco needs to remove its search from his credit file. I 
think it was clear from Tescos website that it would carry out a credit reference search when 
Mr K made the application. I realise Mr K found the experience with Tesco frustrating and 
stressful. But I dont think Tesco did anything wrong or acted unreasonably here. So Im not 
going to ask it to amend his credit file, or do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman