DRN-2640277
The complaint
Mr S complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited didnt send him information about 
debts that it had purchased. Mr S says that as a result, he lost out financially during his 
divorce.
Mr S wants Link to write off the outstanding balances.
What happened
In 2010 and 2011, Link purchased some debts in Mr Ss name. In 2014 Link was told that  
Mr S was in prison and unable to make any payments. 
In June 2015, Mr S asked Link for details about the debts. Mr S wrote again in early 2016 to 
Link and to some of the original creditors.
Mr S told Link that because it didnt send him the information he asked for, the debts werent 
classed as matrimonial debts. This meant Mr S couldnt persuade the court to order the 
debts to be paid from the proceeds of sale of the property he owned with his former wife.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Link sent Mr S information about the debts. The investigator told Mr S that she thought it was 
reasonable for Link to ask for details of his income and expenditure before considering 
whether to keep pursuing repayment of the debts. The investigator didnt think that there was 
evidence of harassment of Mr S by Link.
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. The investigator sent a second 
assessment. She said it was the courts decision whether to include the debts as part of the 
divorce settlement. And that the court wouldve had the power to get information from 
businesses who dont provide it.
The investigator said that some of the copy letters Mr S sent to us didnt include an address 
so she couldnt see if they were sent to Link. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to see that Mr S is struggling with his health and finances but overall, Im not 
persuaded that Link has made a mistake and I will explain why.
Link has given us details including an activities and memos report. Once Link received        
Mr Ss request for information dated 18 June 2015, it responded on 25 June 2015. Although 
I dont have a copy of the actual letter Link sent, the activities report shows it gave Mr S 
outstanding balances for three accounts with transaction summaries. And the notes say the 
letter was sent to Mr S at the address he gave for the prison. Link said that it had requested 
further information from the original owners of the debts. I cant reasonably find that Link 
failed to reply to Mr S in 2015 or that it didnt use the correct address.
Link has also given us evidence that when Mr S wrote again in early 2016, it replied at least 
twice. Once to direct Mr S to the original creditor with details of how to do this. And shortly 
after with a copy of a loan agreement and statement of account. Again, I consider this shows 
that Link did try to help Mr S by giving him what relevant information it had about his 
accounts. The records show that the address Link held for Mr S at this time was the prison 
address hed given.
Mr S says his sister received post from Link on his behalf while he was in prison. But Im 
satisfied that when Link replied to Mr Ss requests for information in 2015 and 2016, it used 
the prison address. So, this doesnt change my decision.
Even if Id decided that Link didnt respond to some of Mr Ss requests for information, I 
wouldnt have then found it responsible for the debts not being classed as matrimonial debts. 
I say this for several reasons. Mr S didnt attend the original financial hearing in 2015. This 
meant he didnt get the chance to put forward his side of the story about the nature of the 
debts. 
In early 2016 Mr S told Link that he had a slim chance to prove the debts in his sole name 
were matrimonial debts. Even if Mr S had all the documents he wanted, I cant be sure the 
court wouldve found in his favour.
I also see that Mr S wasnt given permission to appeal the original financial remedy order out 
of time. Which meant Mr S didnt get the chance to present any information that he might 
have found. 
I hope that Mr S understands I am not being in any way critical of him. I just want to explain 
the various reasons why I cant find Link to be responsible for his debts not being classed as 
matrimonial debts. I should also say of course that this was the courts decision and I could 
not interfere in that.
I dont underestimate the impact the debts have had on Mr S financially and physically. And I 
do understand why he would like Link to write them off. Link says that it could only consider 
a write off is if Mr S provides medical evidence and a personal budget plan. Im satisfied that 
this is reasonable in the circumstances. I encourage Mr S to approach Link with this 
evidence if he hasnt already done. If Mr S does this, I would expect Link to treat him 
sympathetically and reasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman