DRN-3996195
The complaint
Ms A says Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) should honour a payment of interest she was 
informed by it that she was entitled to. This related to an error it made in 2011 when she 
transferred her pension and it had failed to inform her about an entitlement to protected tax-
free cash (PTFC).
What happened
Theres broad agreement between the parties about what happened in this case.
In May 2011 Ms A transferred her SWL pension plan to another provider. The transfer value 
paid was just over £92,000. The retirement date for her plan was August 2035.
Ms A says she received a letter from SWL in January 2020 out of the blue informing her 
about a payment for redress on the pension shed had with it nearly a decade before. She 
rang to find out more and was told it had sent an earlier letter in November 2019 which she 
hadnt received. She asked for a copy and had to chase this twice.
In February 2020 SWL wrote to Ms A informing her of an error it had made when transferring 
her pension. Its letter explained her plan had included a PTFC. It had failed to provide her 
with sufficient information about the benefit before she transferred her funds away. As a 
result, SWL said her PTFC benefit was lost and she may now pay more income tax when 
she takes her benefits than would otherwise have been the case.
To put things right SWL enclosed a cheque for £1,663, which it had calculated as the 
additional income tax it thought she might pay when she took her pension benefits. It was 
based on the assumption she was a basic rate taxpayer. The letter asked her to make 
contact if its assumptions were incorrect.
SWL says Ms A made contact in March 2020, confirming she was a higher rate taxpayer and 
requesting details about its payment. So, it sent her a further letter with its estimate of the 
potential increase tax shed pay on her pension as a higher rate taxpayer. It included another 
cheque for £1,663 which brought the total paid by SWL to £3,363.
SWL confirmed Ms A got in touch with it on 31 January 2022 to say she hadnt cashed the 
cheques it had sent her because shed been unable to access them due to the pandemic 
restrictions. It says she asked if there was any compensation by way of an apology for what 
had happened in 2011. 
Initially SWLs call handler told her if it had made an error it would work out what it owed her 
and add eight percent interest onto the amount. On the same call, after checking with a 
colleague, about 30 minutes later he confirmed hed made a mistake about the interest 
payment, which wasnt payable to her because she hadnt been deprived of funds. The 
redress it was paying was in respect of a potential future additional tax charge she might 
face in the future.
Ms A was unhappy that shed been told shed be getting eight percent interest on the 
redress payment she was owed only to be told in the same call she wouldnt be getting the 
award. She wasnt told why some people would receive the payment and she wouldnt be. 
So she raised a complaint.
On 3 March 2022 SWL provided its final response to Ms As complaint. It didnt agree it 
should honour the payment of 8% interest on the redress she was owed. But it did 
acknowledge it had got things wrong in the conversation it had with her causing her trouble 
and upset. It offered her £150 in recognition of this.
Ms A didnt accept SWLs offer and so she brought her case to this Service. An investigator 
reviewed her complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think SWL had to pay her the interest 
award its adviser had mistakenly told her shed be entitled to. And she thought the apology it 
made together with the £150 award was sufficient to put things right.
Ms A disagreed. She summarised matters in the following terms:
Whilst I see you say this is for a future event which is yet to take place, the redress is to 
indemnify the original mistake in lack of communication and future deficits.
It has also been noted and agreed by the complaint handler that I was on hold for a 
significant amount of time whilst his colleague, the original agent, I now see as per the 
Ombudsman letter response, went to check his statements with a colleague, albeit after he 
made them.
You agree in your letter that this statement was made, albeit incorrectly by him. How am I to 
be held accountable for statements another has made in the course of his employment? The 
fact is it was stated. I was specifically told I would get an 8% uplift as an apology. He also 
said that others would get it. No one has yet explained why others are due a financial 
apology and I, specifically me, am not, again as stated in the call.
Irrespective of the figures involved, is there not an apology due for the initial mistake and 
subsequent continuing investigation on my part? I dont understand how I am different to 
everyone else who apparently did receive an 8% apology?
Had the letter of said something along the lines of, we are giving all affected recipients 
£150.00 by way of an apology for our mistake, again I would have accepted that. But not 
after being advised otherwise.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Ms As 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by SWL 
for Ms A. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like SWL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Ms As complaint.
Our power to make awards derives from the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). The different types of award we can make are set out in the DISP rules. Those 
rules say we can make one or more of the following:
- A money award - telling a business to compensate the consumer for a loss it caused. 
Thats often a direct financial loss  but it could also be an indirect loss, or an 
expected future loss. We can also make awards for non-financial loss  which 
includes distress or inconvenience, pain and suffering, and damage to reputation.
- An interest award  this can be interest as part an award, on a money award or after 
the money award has been calculated.
- An award of costs telling the business to pay some or all the costs the consumer 
reasonably incurred to do with the complaint. These arent common in the 
circumstances of most complaints.
- A direction - telling the business to do something else appropriate  other than pay 
money  to put things right. That can include making an apology.
Firms like SWL understand the framework within which this Service operates, and when they 
offer compensation they will often take it into account.
In its final response letter to Ms A dated 3 March 2022, SWL said:
I can only apologise [for] the initial error made, the difficulties youve experienced having to 
pay the cheques into your bank account through lockdown, having to send us your P60, 
having to ask for a full breakdown calculation, the misunderstanding you had with my 
colleague over the phone and if he kept you on hold for longer than necessary.
Please accept my sincere apologies for this an any inconvenience caused and I hope we 
will have the opportunity to provide you with a better service in the future.
Ms A wants SWL to honour the interest payment she was told in the telephone call she could 
receive. She feels that shes been treated differently to other people in similar 
circumstances. She says had the offer of an interest payment not been made she wouldnt 
have complained.
Ive thought carefully about Ms As arguments, but I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to require SWL to do anything further in her case. I say this because:
- SWL had made an apology for the problem with her PTFC in its letters to her, for example in March 2020. And its provided redress for the potential financial impact of 
what it got wrong in 2011.
- SWLs call-handler made a mistake when he spoke to her, but he corrected the 
position during the same call. Any expectation she had of receiving an interest 
payment was very short lived. This wasnt a payment she was entitled to.
- SWL did try to explain that because she hadnt yet incurred an increased tax liability 
as a result of what happened in 2011, no loss had crystalised and so there was no 
opportunity cost associated with her potentially higher tax bill.
- Conversely, where SWL customers had lost their PTFC and had already incurred 
higher tax bills as a result, then not only would I expect it to pay redress to make 
good that financial detriment, it would also be expected to make an interest award to 
reflect other potential uses for those funds which because of its error they didnt have 
access to.
- When Im considering a complaint like Ms As I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, 
recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference. 
- Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I 
need to decide that the impact of SWLs actions was greater than just a minor 
inconvenience or upset. I think this was the case here, particularly taking matters in 
the round. 
- In its final response letter SWL offered Ms A £150 in relation to the misunderstanding 
arising in the conversation with its call handler. I think that is fair in the 
circumstances.
So, Ive concluded it wouldnt be fair in the circumstances for me to direct SWL to make a 
payment of interest award to Ms A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman