DRN-2140004
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Mortgage Express. Mr H is unhappy about problems that arose 
when Mortgage Express was asked to approve two applications to release part of its security 
and about poor customer service when dealing with Mortgage Express. Mr H says that, as a 
result of Mortgage Expresss actions, they had to forfeit a deposit of £60,000 paid on another 
property.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr Hs wife, Mrs H.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened is as follows. Mr H has a mortgage with Mortgage Express, which 
unfortunately had fallen into arrears. Since July 2016 the property has been on the market 
for sale, initially at £775,000, but falling to £550,000 by December 2019 (after part of the 
land had been sold). Two sales had fallen through since October 2017. The mortgage was 
unaffordable and Mr H, for reasons entirely outside his control, was unable to work.  There 
was a possession order on the property and Mortgage Express was considering enforcing a 
warrant of possession.
In 2018 Mr H asked Mortgage Express for consent to release part of the land secured by the 
mortgage so that this could be sold to his neighbours as a separate parcel. In November 
2018 Mortgage Express consented to this, on the basis of the information it had been 
provided with at that time. Mortgage Express was told the sale price was £20,000.  The 
hand-drawn plan provided by Mr H showed the land to be sold was a rectangular piece of 
land attached to a neighbouring property to the left (on the plan) of Mr Hs house which 
would increase the neighbours garden by about half an acre.
On 14 March 2019 Mr H told Mortgage Express that he was selling another parcel of land 
which he said wasnt part of the mortgage security. He said contracts had been exchanged 
on 12 March with completion fixed for 8 April. Mr H said hed use the proceeds of sale to 
clear the arrears in full and to reduce the mortgage balance.
On 21 March 2019 Mortgage Express received an amended plan showing the land which 
was now being sold. Mortgage Express noted that this plot was quite different from the land 
Mortgage Express had originally consented to release from its security, and was to the right 
of the house. Mr H confirmed this was the case and that he would be receiving £80,000 for 
the plot. Mortgage Express confirmed that it would require the entire £80,000 paid to it.
Nothing further was said by Mr H about the sale of the original half-acre plot for £20,000.
Completion of the sale took place and Mr Hs solicitors sent Mortgage Express £80,000. 
Mortgage Express returned this, because it had not yet consented to the release of the 
larger parcel of land, and needed to carry out a valuation before it would be able to seal the 
deed of release (DS3). This was confirmed by Mortgage Express in a letter dated 5 April 
2019 to Mr Hs solicitors.
On 8 April 2019 Mr and Mrs H exchanged contracts to purchase another property, with 
completion due on 29 April 2019. Completion did not take place. Mr and Mrs H say they 
have had to forfeit the deposit of £60,000 they paid. 
A new valuation fee was paid and the valuation report was carried out on 25 April 2019. This 
gave the value of the property as £555,000, which was a discrepancy in the previous 
valuation (for the £20,000 sale) which was that the property was valued at £700,000 and 
after the sale it would be £620,000. Mortgage Express queried with the valuers whether the 
£550,000 was before or after the release of land. On 30 April 2019 the valuers confirmed the 
valuation figure was after the land had been released.
The valuers were asked to clarify the position and explained that Mrs H had shown them the 
land that was being retained, not the land that was being sold, and so that is what they had 
valued. Mortgage Express clarified that they had needed a valuation of the entire site, not 
just the land that was being retained.
There was a considerable amount of back and forth between Mrs H, the solicitors acting for 
Mr H and Mortgage Express about the valuation. It appeared that the valuation of the 
property was £700,000 but on sale of the two parcels of land it would be £550,000. Mortgage 
Express said it would want a payment of £150,000, but Mr H refused. 
I note that at one point Mrs H was incorrectly told that the valuation would be faxed to the 
solicitors when it had to be sent by post. The solicitors chased this and it was in fact faxed 
on 15 May 2019.
On 23 May 2019 Mr Hs solicitors confirmed an annexe being included in the sale and 
provided a plan. Mortgage Express noted that this area was not included in the plan it had 
previously been sent for the second valuation. 
Another valuation was carried out on 5 June 2019 and was referred to head office for 
consideration. On 12 June 2019 Mortgage Express confirmed it agreed to the part sale on 
condition a payment of £60,000 was made. This would clear the arears of about £39,000, 
with the remainder going towards reducing the mortgage balance.
The £60,000 was paid on 12 June 2019 and on 17 June 2019 the sealed DS3 was sent to 
the solicitors. Thereafter there were some issues with the Land Registry requiring a sealed 
copy of the plan which caused some delay, but this was an administrative issue upon which 
nothing turns in relation to the dispute between Mr H and Mortgage Express.
At the end of June 2019 Mrs H contacted Mortgage Express to ask about another part sale, 
this time of a cottage. She was told that a new valuation would be required. Mrs H told Mortgage Express that the cottage should have been released along with the last piece of 
land, but this is not what was done. A valuation fee of £210 was paid but Mortgage Express 
had changed valuers and needed a further £280, which was paid on 11 July 2019.
On 26 July 2019 Mr Hs solicitors confirmed that there would be no sale of land; instead the 
land released from the security would be used to build a residential property. The solicitors 
confirmed that initially the land was to be used to secure refinance, but that fell through; 
instead Mr H wanted to release the land in order to build a property on it.
On 12 August 2019 Mortgage Express refused consent to release the land, as it would 
reduce the value of the remaining security by £50,000. Mrs H offered to pay the £50,000. 
This was appealed and on 6 September 2019 Mortgage Express agreed to release the land 
for a payment of £50,000, provided the surveyors confirmed that there would be no impact 
on the future saleability of the property. On 13 September 2019 the surveyors confirmed 
there should be no adverse effect on future saleability if the additional land was released.
Meanwhile, arrears had begun to occur on the account again, after theyd been cleared out 
of the earlier £60,000 payment. No payment was made after August 2019 and in November 
2019 Mr H told Mortgage Express that he was withholding payment until his complaint had 
been resolved.
On 9 December 2019 Mr Hs solicitors confirmed that the DS3 was still pending at the land 
registry and that it might take several months to complete this, due to backlogs. Mortgage 
Express notes also state that, in relation to the new release of security, Mortgage Express 
had received no further information about this following its confirmation to the solicitors in 
September 2019 that it agreed to this.
Mr H complained to Mortgage Express, with Mrs H dealing with this on his behalf. Mortgage 
Express didnt think the complaint should be upheld, other than in relation to some customer 
service issues where Mr H had been told documents had been faxed when they had not. 
Mortgage Express offered compensation of £150 for this.
Dissatisfied with this, On 17 June 2019 Mrs H complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on Mr Hs behalf. Two investigators looked at the complaint. The second investigator 
noted that several of the issues Mr H was complaining about had been covered in previous 
final response letters, but the complaints hadnt been brought to us within six months of the 
dates of those letters. 
These complaints were about Mr Hs allegation of delay by Mortgage Express in completing 
a form required by the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP), covered by a final 
response letter dated 30 August 2017, and another complaint about dissatisfaction over a 
property valuation carried out in September 2018, and covered in a final response letter 
dated 24 October 2018. Because there were no exceptional circumstances to explain the 
delays, the investigator was satisfied those complaints were out of time.
The investigator thought the only issues we could consider were those relating to the 
process around the two requests to release land from the security held by Mortgage 
Express. After looking at these parts of the complaint, she didnt think it should be upheld. 
The investigator was satisfied that it was reasonable for Mortgage Express to request a fresh 
application and valuation when it was being asked to release a different parcel of land from 
that originally requested. She didnt think the length of time this took was the fault of 
Mortgage Express. There were some customer service issues which the investigator noted 
Mortgage Express had acknowledged  in relation to some small delays during the 
application process. She thought the £150 offered for this was fair and reasonable.Mrs H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. No new evidence or arguments have been put forward, but Mrs H has reiterated 
all the points shes previously made about what happened and why she thinks Mortgage 
Express has acted unfairly. In particular, Mrs H has sent us again a letter from Mortgage 
Express dated 5 April 2019 which she says proves Mortgage Express agreed to the sale of 
the land in April 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the start, I will concentrate on what I consider to be the main issues in the 
complaint.
First, I agree that the complaints about delay in completing the DWP form and about a 
valuation carried out in September 2018 have been brought too late for us to consider. Both 
were covered in previous final response letters and were not raised with us within six months 
of the dates of those letters. Im satisfied there are no exceptional circumstances that would 
allow me to waive the time limits which apply here.
With regard to the issues I am able to consider, Mortgage Express had initially consented to 
release a small parcel of land from its security, which Mr H had said he was selling for 
£20,000. But when the documents were sent to Mortgage Express, it was noted that this was 
for a different parcel of land. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Mortgage Express to undertake a fresh valuation in order to ascertain the impact of this sale 
on its security. 
I also note that, even after a fresh valuation had been carried out, Mortgage Express learned 
that the sale was to include other land which it was not previously aware of, requiring 
another valuation. Again, Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
Mrs H says that the letter dated 5 April 2019 from Mortgage Express to Mr Hs solicitors 
confirms that Mortgage Express consented to the sale of the land. Reading that letter, it is 
difficult to ascertain how Mrs H has reached that conclusion. The letter says:
Further to our telephone call on the 04 April 2019 regarding the Part Sale of the 
above property. 
If the customer now wants to proceed with a sale including the larger area then we 
will require a further valuation to be completed to understand the impact on our 
security.
 
We will also require the customer to pay Mortgage Express the £80,000. 
We have also tried to contact you today by phone to discuss this due to the urgency 
of this matter. Please contact us if you have any queries.
After considering the contents of this letter, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express did not 
consent to the sale of a larger parcel of land without any valuation having been carried out. 
Nor, I find, did Mortgage Express mislead Mr H that it had consented. 
Mortgage Express was presented with a fait accompli by Mr Hs solicitors  a transfer 
document with a plan showing land to be released which was fundamentally different from 
the small parcel of land which Mortgage Express had agreed to release for £20,000. In the circumstances, I dont think Mortgage Express acted unreasonably in taking steps to see 
how this would affect its security and the position on the mortgage account.
I can see that the valuation process took longer than Mr H would have liked, but given that 
the goalposts were moved several times in relation to what Mortgage Express was being 
asked to consent to, I dont think there was any substantial delay by Mortgage Express. I 
note Mortgage Express has offered compensation of £150 for a slight delay in processing 
the application. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable, and proportionate to the minor delay 
involved. 
I understand Mr and Mrs H exchanged contracts on a new property on 8 April 2019 and paid 
a £60,000 deposit which they have told us they had to forfeit. But Mr and Mrs Hs solicitors 
had been sent a letter on 5 April 2019  explaining that Mortgage Express needed to carry out 
a fresh valuation before it could consider any application to release additional land from its 
security. Given this, I dont know why Mr and Mrs Hs solicitors committed them to their new 
purchase. Thats something Mr and Mrs H will need to take up with their solicitors.
I appreciate this has been a stressful time for Mr H. I see from our file that Mr H said he was 
withholding mortgage payments until the complaint was resolved, so I assume he has put 
these aside to be paid at a later date. This is not something we would ever recommend a 
customer to do, but I assume Mr H will now be able to make up any missed mortgage 
payments from the funds he has withheld.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for, but after taking everything into account, I 
dont think Mortgage Express is required to pay any compensation over and above the £150 
its already offered to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the 
compensation Mortgage Express has offered of £150 is fair and reasonable. I make no other 
order or award. I simply leave it to Mr H to decide if he wants to accept the £150 in full and 
final settlement of his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman