DRN-1976546
The complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out by Mr A in 1993 with Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey 
National) in connection with a mortgage. 
What happened
Mr A complained that he believed the PPI was mandatory and that he needed it to be 
approved for the mortgage. He said he was self-employed at the time and could not claim on 
the policy. He also says he didnt know about the deferred period. So he concludes the 
policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld because the PPI was shown to 
be an optional product and it was suitable for Mr A. Our adjudicator also said the clause 
relating to a claim made by those who were self-employed wasnt particularly onerous for Mr 
A. 
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
He added the following main points:
He didnt know he would have to close his business completely and register as 
unemployed to make an unemployment claim;
He was not eligible for accident or sickness cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Having done that Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Santander did enough to show Mr A that the policy was an optional 
product. Santander didnt have the documents which Mr A completed in 1993, but that is 
not surprising as the sale happened a long time ago. However, Santander provided a 
sample of the PPI application form which Mr A or the adviser would have completed around 
the time of the sale. It was a form which only dealt with the PPI. So as Mr A was able to 
complete a separate form for PPI, I think it is reasonable to assume that he could have left 
the form blank if he did not want PPI. As he had that choice, I think the policy was 
represented to him as an optional product and I think he probably consented to have it 
added to his mortgage account.
Mr A also said he felt pressured to buy PPI. But he did not tell me exactly what was said to 
him during the sale. So I dont think there is enough evidence on the documents to make 
me think he bought the PPI under pressure.
Santander and Mr A agree the policy was bought during an advised sale. For advised 
sales, Santander had to sell a policy which was suitable for Mr As needs. I think it was 
suitable because he was eligible to buy it, it seemed it was affordable at the time and he 
wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions). 
Mr A said he had some savings, but I think a successful claim on the policy could have 
lasted for longer than his savings. So I dont think his other funds made the policy 
unsuitable for him. And I think he could have found the accident and sickness cover useful 
as he was self-employed.
Santander also had to give Mr A enough information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make his own informed decision about whether to buy the policy. 
So Id expect Santander to highlight the policys significant features, especially the 
exclusions and limitations in the policy.
Mr A specifically complains the policy wouldnt cover him for unemployment cover because 
he was self- employed. So I looked at the policy terms and conditions which Santander said 
were given to Mr A around the time of the sale. I could see that a consumer could claim for 
unemployment cover. And self-employed persons could claim unemployment cover if:
the Insured Borrower is in receipt of National Insurance Unemployment Benefit or can 
provide satisfactory evidence of being registered as being unemployed at the Department of 
Employment.
Ive considered this term very carefully, and I have decided I agree with our adjudicator  I 
dont think this is an onerous term. It isnt asking a self-employed consumer to do anything 
over and above what it requires an employed consumer to do if they were unemployed. So 
Mr A would also have to prove he was unemployed before he could claim unemployment 
cover. I think this is a reasonable request. I know Mr A will be disappointed with this. But I 
dont think the policy term makes it impossible for Mr A to make a claim and I dont think he 
was affected by the main exclusions.  So even if the information about the exclusions had 
been clearer, I dont think that clearer information would have stopped him from buying the 
PPI.
Mr A said he could not claim for accident or sick leave because he was self-employed. 
However, I couldnt see anything in the policy terms which meant self-employed people 
couldnt make such claims. So Im not going to uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr A also said he didnt know there was a deferred period of 90 days before a claim would 
be paid. But having already decided the policy was optional and that Mr A probably chose 
to buy it, I dont think this term would have put him off from buying PPI - particularly as he 
had enough savings to cover him for the deferred period.
I would also have expected Santander to tell Mr A the cost and benefits of the PPI policy. I 
dont know what information he was given during the sale about it, but Santander said it 
sent a Certificate of Insurance Cover to Mr A which most likely showed the monthly PPI 
cost. So having decided he chose to have the PPI, I dont think any more information about 
cost and benefits would have stopped him from buying the policy.Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and it was suitable 
for Mr A. I dont think that any more detailed information would have put him off from 
buying the PPI. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman