DRN-3263063
The complaint
Mr H says he wants a refund of the £275 valuation fee he paid to Clydesdale Bank Plc 
(trading as Virgin Money) as part of his mortgage application. He says the valuation wasnt 
completed and issues with it delayed his property purchase by three months.
What happened
Mr H wanted to buy a new-build shared ownership property and applied for a mortgage with 
Virgin Money through a mortgage broker.
The surveyor visited the property on 7 May 2021 and provided a copy of the valuation report 
to Virgin Money on 10 May.
The report said The property is adjacent to , the use class of which is outside policy. As 
there were some words missing - to say what the property is adjacent to - Virgin Money 
referred it back to the surveyor on 14 May. The surveyor responded on 18 May with the 
information needed, and as that didnt fit Virgin Moneys lending policy the broker was 
notified that the application had been declined on 21 May.
Nothing further was heard until 14 June when an appeal was made against the decline, 
which was agreed as an exception on 17 June. Virgin Money notified the surveyor that it had 
agreed an exception to its lending policy (in relation to the proximity of the property to 
non-residential units), and the surveyor said that an EWS1 form was still needed as the 
property was understood to be of a construction which includes an external wall system with 
cladding.
The broker was told the EWS1 form was needed on 22 June and that it would need to be 
uploaded to the Building Safety Information Portal that was run by the Fire Industry 
Association.
Mr H complained to Virgin Money on 8 July. He said the EWS1 form couldnt be uploaded to 
the portal and Virgin Money wouldnt accept the form by email instead. He requested a 
refund of the valuation fee hed paid.
Virgin Money didnt uphold the complaint. It said each application is assessed in accordance 
with its lending policy in place at the time, and the EWS1 was needed but not received. It 
said the valuation fee couldnt be refunded because it had been paid to the surveyor for the 
service they had provided.
Unhappy with Virgin Moneys response, Mr H referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that she didnt think Virgin Money acted 
unfairly. Under its lending policy the form had to be submitted via the portal and it wasnt that 
the person who completed the form couldnt, it was that they didnt want to pay the fee for 
doing so. The portal wasnt run by Virgin Money, and it was entitled to use it to ensure any 
EWS1 form it received was valid. She didnt feel the timescales were unreasonable and the 
valuation was carried out, albeit a valuation figure couldnt be given without an EWS1 form.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he shouldnt be £275 out of pocket because Virgin Money 
changed its lending policy for a brief period over the course of his application, and the fact it 
had now changed its policy back to not needing the forms to be submitted through the portal 
shows that receiving them in other ways is sufficient for its purpose.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by Virgin Money appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. 
Virgin Money isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. All I can consider against Virgin Money is 
if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did. 
When Virgin Money received the report it queried it with the surveyor as it didnt say what the 
property was adjacent to, and once it received a response to that it notified Mr Hs broker 
that the property didnt meet its lending criteria. 
Mr Hs broker appealed that decision, and Virgin Money accepted that as an exception to its 
lending policy, at which point the broker was notified that the EWS1 form would be needed.
Mr H hasnt disputed the need for the EWS1 form, just that it could only be submitted via the 
Building Safety Information Portal rather than by email or other means.
Ive considered this point very carefully but I dont think that was an unreasonable stance for 
Virgin Money to have taken. At the time Mr H applied for this mortgage Virgin Moneys policy 
was that it would only accept EWS1 forms via the portal, so it wasnt treating Mr H any 
differently to any other customer that had an application where the form was needed.
The guidance for the portal explains that manual checks are undertaken at various stages of 
the process, starting from the Fire Engineer needing to present evidence that they are fully 
qualified and competent to undertake the inspection, up to checking the validity of each form 
to try to eliminate the problem of fraudulent EWS1 forms being in circulation. As a lender 
Virgin Money decides what level of risk it wants to take in different areas, and it decided it 
wasnt willing to accept EWS1 forms unless they were independently verified as valid 
through the portal. Having considered everything I dont think that is an unreasonable stance 
for Virgin Money to have decided to take.
On a side note, Mr H has said Virgin Moneys policy has since changed back (so the forms 
can be submitted in other ways). But I cant see that is the case as Virgin Moneys website 
for brokers currently states We will only accept EWS1 forms which are completed and held 
on the portal. They should not be sent to us. Therefore please ensure that the organisation 
appointed to complete the EWS1 form is willing to upload it to the Building Safety Portal or 
your client may face disappointment as we will be unable to lend.Whilst it took some time from when Mr H first made his application to the point where he 
wasnt able to proceed due to the EWS1 form not being uploaded to the portal, I cant see 
that Virgin Money caused any delays. It reacted within days to each new piece of 
information, corresponding with the various parties as needed. 
I understand why Mr H wants the valuation fee refunded, but the surveyor undertook the visit 
and prepared their report which is what the fee paid for. If the EWS1 form had been provided 
and showed the property was a suitable risk for lending purposes, Ive no reason to believe 
the surveyor wouldnt have provided the valuation figure and any further comments they felt 
were needed. It is unfortunate that Mr Hs application couldnt be taken forward, but that is 
always a risk with any mortgage application. Im satisfied Virgin Money wasnt at fault for 
Mr Hs application being unable to proceed, nor for the time it took to reach that point, and so 
Im unable to order it to refund the valuation fee to Mr H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Ombudsman