DRN-4389241
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC agreed to let them port Mr Bs existing 
lending, and add Mrs L, to buy a new home, but at the last minute Lloyds said no, because 
of the property type. Mr B and Mrs L said Lloyds had known about that for some time.
What happened
Mr B told us he had held a mortgage with Lloyds for some time. Hed renewed the mortgage 
in November 2021 for 5 years. He said that in May 2022 he and Mrs B had an offer accepted 
on a property, and started discussing porting Mr Bs existing borrowing to fund the purchase. 
Mr B said he had correspondence with someone from Lloyds in July 2022, then it went quiet 
with little communication. Mr B said that his correspondence was going to the wrong person, 
but no one from Lloyds got in touch, or replied when he contacted Lloyds. 
Mr B said he got Lloyds to respond eventually, and did a mortgage application in early
September. He said he sent in further information, and a valuer then attended the property.
Following this, Mr B and Mrs L were told that Lloyds wasnt prepared to lend on the property
they wanted to buy.
Mr B and Mrs L were very unhappy with the valuation, which they said contained a number
of errors. They said after the valuation was done, their offer was withdrawn only three or four
weeks before they were due to exchange, and this caused an enormous amount of financial
stress. They said they had to get an emergency loan and scrape together money to prevent
the chain from collapsing. And Lloyds charged an early redemption fee (ERC) when they
paid off their lending. They didnt think this was fair, and they wanted Lloyds to either
reinstate Mr Bs previous mortgage, or to repay the ERC it charged.
Lloyds said it was sorry it had provided poor service initially, and it offered £150 to make up
for that. But it said it hadnt changed its mind about offering a mortgage on the property Mr B
and Mrs L wanted to buy. It said the valuer had told it the property was partly made up of a
house, and partly of commercial use buildings. Lloyds said the commercial buildings would
need to be separated from the Land Registry entry for the house, before it could consider
offering a mortgage on this property.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds had apologised
for the poor service it offered initially, and paid £150, which he thought was fair. But he said
Lloyds hadnt known Mr B and Mrs L wanted to buy a property which was partly commercial
until the valuation report came back. And when Lloyds found that out, it decided this wasnt
suitable security for this lending.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake in relying on the valuers report and
deciding not to lend on this property. He also said that the ERC was properly charged, in line
with the terms of Mr Bs existing mortgage, when Mr B paid that lending off.
Mr B and Mrs L didnt agree. Mr B said he and Mrs L had always planned to separate the
property into two, a commercial part and a residential part. He sent us an email hed sent to
Lloyds on 22 September, which discussed how the plot would be divided into two, with a
new separate entrance created for the commercial part of the plot. This email made clear
that Mr B and Mrs L only intended to mortgage the residential part of the property.
Mr B and Mrs L said theyd told the mortgage advisor about this from the start. They said full
details of the property and their plans for it were discussed during the video appointment
they had on 9 September to get their mortgage application back underway. They were
always planning to split the property title into two on completion, and they had since done so.
Mr B and Mrs L said if it was against Lloyds criteria to lend on a property like this, then it
could have told them that much earlier. But it only told them after the valuation, leaving them
with around three weeks to source a new mortgage offer.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr B and Mrs L wanted their complaint to be
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. And I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I think Mr B and Mrs Ls mortgage application initially stalled because theyd sent 
information to the wrong email address. I understand Mr B and Mrs L then struggled to 
contact anyone at Lloyds who could help them to reinstate their application, and Lloyds 
has accepted it provided poor service at this stage. Lloyds offered £150 to say sorry for 
that. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr B and Mrs Ls 
complaint, and Ill include that in my award in case Mr B and Mrs L didnt cash the 
cheque that Lloyds sent. 
Ill now consider the second part of Mr B and Mrs Ls complaint, that Lloyds turned down
their lending shortly before they were due to exchange on their property.
I dont think Lloyds made a mistake in turning down their lending. Its entitled to rely on 
the advice it receives from their surveyor about whether a property is suitable security, 
or not. Here, the valuer was considering a property which was part residential, part 
commercial, and had shared access for the two different parts of the property. Lloyds 
was only offering a residential mortgage, so I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Lloyds to say it didnt want to lend on this property.
But I do think Lloyds made a mistake, because it didnt say this sooner. Mr B and Mrs L 
told us theyd explained their plans in great detail to the mortgage advisor, but the 
advisor doesnt appear to have raised any query over the fact that they were planning to 
split the property into two, creating a new entrance to the commercial property (which 
was presumably dependent on the relevant permissions being granted) and that they 
were only intending to mortgage the residential part of the property.
I havent been able to see the mortgage advisor took steps to make sure that any 
mortgage was offered only on the residential part of the property. I think if she had taken 
such steps, then its likely Lloyds would have expressed concerns about this property 
sooner. 
But I dont think its likely that, given more time, these concerns could have been 
resolved. Even if Lloyds had understood Mr B and Mrs L only wanted to mortgage part 
of the plot that they were buying, I dont think it could be sure their plans to create a separate entrance would go ahead. And the property would still be directly adjacent to 
commercial premises. So I think its most likely Lloyds would still have had reservations 
about this lending.
That means I dont think Mr B and Mrs L were ever likely to be able to port Mr Bs prior
lending to buy the property they wanted. And I do think that its likely they would always 
have had to pay the ERC which I can see that prior lending was subject to, when they 
paid it off.
But if Lloyds had looked into what Mr B and Mrs L told it about the property from the 
outset, then I think Mr B and Mrs L would have been aware of these issues earlier, 
which would have allowed them more time to put alternative financing in place.
Because that didnt happen, Mr B and Mrs L didnt find out Lloyds wouldnt lend until 
they were very close to signing for this property, and felt they were committed to their 
sale and purchase. I think this must have caused Mr B and Mrs L a considerable 
amount of stress.
For that reason, I think Lloyds should pay a little more compensation in this case. I know
Lloyds has already offered £150, but I think it should pay Mr B and Mrs L a total of £500 
in compensation. Ill allow Lloyds to count towards that amount, any payment of 
compensation it has already made for this complaint, in case Mr B and Mrs L did cash 
the cheque that Lloyds sent. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that having reviewed my provisional decision, it would pay the suggested 
compensation. It said it had sent Mr B and Mrs L a cheque for £150, so it would confirm 
whether this had already been cashed before making payment.
Mr B and Mrs L wrote to say some of the points in my provisional decision were incorrect. 
They said Lloyds was fully aware of the property and of their situation, and theyd been very 
transparent with the mortgage advisor, because of the short time scale they were working to. 
Mr B and Mrs L said they told Lloyds that the property had commercial premises adjacent, 
and the advisor recommended a level one valuation, saying it was likely the valuer wouldnt 
attend. Mr B and Mrs L said the property did have two vehicular entrances, and the 
mortgage advisor knew that. She had viewed the property using online street maps, during a 
call with Mr B, to confirm this. And theyd supplied detailed plans of the property before the 
valuer attended. 
Mr B and Mrs L said they agreed it didnt help that theyd made a mistake in sending through 
emails to the wrong address, but they then made calls to Lloyds that werent returned. 
Theyd first asked Lloyds to port the mortgage in May, but didnt get an appointment until the 
start of July. They felt that taking over a month to get a video appointment was poor service. 
Mr B and Mrs L said the whole property had been valued at £500,000 in May 2022, and they 
thought if theyd sold off the commercial buildings section for new housing, that would have more than covered the mortgage they wanted to port. They said they only wanted a 
residential mortgage on the house itself, which was valued at £325,000. 
.
Mr B and Mrs L said theyd then obtained a structural engineers report in June 2023, and 
were told the house was mortgageable, although it needs renovation. But they were now 
having difficulties getting a mortgage, with the stricter criteria now being applied by lenders. 
Mr B and Mrs L said Mr B had stayed loyal to Lloyds, and it was disappointing that this 
loyalty only worked one way. They were very upset with how theyd been treated by Lloyds. 
They said Lloyds told them all calls were recorded when the calls were made, but then 
hadnt been able to find them, to resolve this complaint. Mr B and Mrs L said the mortgage 
advisor in this case was incompetent, and they felt that Lloyds should have waived the ERC.
I do understand that Mr B and Mrs L have been very disappointed in how this mortgage 
porting application has been carried out. I still think that initial delays were at least partly 
because Mr B was unfortunately using the wrong email address for Lloyds, but I noted in my 
provisional decision above that Lloyds accepted it had provided some poor service at this 
time. I said then I thought £150 did provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr 
B and Mrs Ls complaint, and I still think that. 
Mr B and Mrs L wanted to stress that theyd always been open and upfront with Lloyds about 
the sort of property they were buying, and the evidence they have shown our service 
previously does support what they said about only wanting a mortgage on part of the 
property. Unfortunately, although Mr B and Mrs L did tell their mortgage advisor this, it 
doesnt look as if she took any steps to make the rest of Lloyds aware of their particular 
situation. I think this is where things went wrong in this case.
So I have to think about what would have happened, if the mortgage advisor had made the 
rest of Lloyds aware of the particular circumstances of Mr B and Mrs L, and the details of the 
property they wanted to buy. And my provisional decision above was that if she had done so, 
then I think Lloyds was still always likely to have turned them down for lending. 
I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs L have now shown us there were already two vehicle 
entrances to the property. But I still dont think Lloyds was likely to have lent on only part of a 
property which needed to be divided after purchase, and where the mortgaged part would 
remain immediately adjacent to commercial premises. What Mr B and Mrs L have now told 
us about the property having required a structural survey to confirm it is mortgageable, and 
requiring renovation, wouldnt change my view on that.
So, because Mr B had a pre-existing mortgage with Lloyds, which he would need to pay an 
ERC to clear, and because I dont think Lloyds was ever likely to allow Mr B to port this 
mortgage to his new purchase, I dont think Lloyds needs to repay the ERC it charged now.
The other part of my provisional decision was, that although I thought Lloyds as a whole 
would always have reached the same view on whether to lend to Mr B and Mrs L on the 
property they wanted to buy, if their mortgage advisor had shared the information she was 
given earlier, then Lloyds would have reached its lending decision much earlier. Mr B would 
still have needed to pay the ERC, but that would have saved Mr B and Mrs L the distress of 
not finding out they would need to secure alternative financing until very late in the day. 
Thats why I asked Lloyds to increase the compensation in this case. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr B and Mrs L are now struggling to mortgage their property, with 
recent changes in the checks lenders apply, but I dont think that is something that Lloyds is 
responsible for. For the reasons Ive set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr B and Mrs L £500 in compensation. 
Lloyds Bank PLC can count towards that amount, any payment of compensation it has 
already made for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman