DRN-1133652
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2000 in connection with a mortgage. Mrs E and Mr E say HSBC UK Bank Plc 
trading as First Direct (First Direct) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 2000. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. They said they didnt need it, they didnt know it was 
optional and they only bought it because they thought it was part of the mortgage.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs E and Mr E disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
The policy only covered Mrs E, so I will sometimes only refer to her. But I will refer to 
Mrs E and Mr E where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es and Mr Es case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Neither First Direct nor Mrs E and Mr E have any paperwork from the time of sale, but I 
dont think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 20 years ago. But it does 
mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
First Direct should have made Mrs E and Mr E aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy, but Mrs E and Mr E say they were not aware at all that the policy was optional. 
Instead, they said they thought it was part of the mortgage.
Based on what I know about how First Direct sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mrs E and Mr E has 
told me makes me think First Direct didnt follow its normal process here. First Direct has 
produced a sample of the mortgage application form which it says Mrs E and Mr E would 
have completed. I can see it has a separate PPI section and a separate PPI direct debit 
mandate  so it seems it should have been clear that PPI was a separate optional product. 
I noted the first six months was free of charge, so that also gave Mrs E and Mr E time to 
decide if they wanted to keep the PPI by the time the six month period had expired. I also 
noted the policy was tailored to cover Mrs E only  so I think its likely they made this 
specific request. So that too should have indicated the policy was optional and not just a 
part of the mortgage. 
So overall, I think its more likely First Direct made it clear to Mrs E and Mr E they had a 
choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it although I can understand why they may 
not remember this now.
This PPI sale was advised. So for advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for them. I 
think it was suitable for their needs. I say this because Mrs E was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and she wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mrs E and Mr E told us they had safe employee benefits, other insurance and no 
savings. However, I dont think Mrs Es employee benefits made the policy unsuitable 
because I noted the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months on a 
successful claim. This means the PPI could pay out for longer than and in addition to Mrs 
Es sick pay - so I think this would have been a useful benefit for them.
I also think Mrs E and Mr E probably borrowed funds against a large and long-term 
financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that 
their mortgage repayments would be made if Mrs E was unable to work would have been 
important to them. It also meant any other insurances they had could be used for other 
expenses.
Mrs E also said she could rely on her husbands income and other insurances. I do 
understand the point she is making, but there was no guarantee that she could still rely on 
this help at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this made the policy less 
suitable.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information First Direct gave Mrs E 
and Mr E about the PPI cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
having decided Mrs E and Mr E chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover for Mrs E. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them so I dont think more detailed information 
about the PPI cost and benefits would have put Mrs E and Mr E off from taking out the 
cover. And overall I dont think Mrs E and Mr E have lost out by anything First Direct might 
have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs E and Mr E. Its always 
difficult to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about 
what Mrs E and Mr E have said and about what I know of First Directs sales processes. 
And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman