DRN-3632777
The complaint
Mr S complains about Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited, in relation to: 
The mis-sale and maladministration of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
The failure to disclose the relationship between Regency and Rowanmoor to him. 
The failure to conduct adequate due diligence in respect of the April Salumei product 
or update him in a timely fashion in relation to the fact that it was potentially an illiquid 
asset not capable of being traded as a product of value. 
Rowanmoors failure to follow or obtain instructions from him. 
The concealment of fees paid and transactional fees with solicitors. 
The failure to provide annual statements. 
What happened
Parties involved in the transaction: 
Carbon Energy Resources Ltd  unregulated introducer who introduced Mr S to Carbon 
Credits, Regency Financial Resources Ltd and Rowanmoor pensions. 
Regency Financial Resources Ltd  a UK regulated financial advisory firm that was 
registered as Mr S adviser in respect of the SIPP. 
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited  Rowanmoor is a regulated pension provider 
and administrator. It is authorised to arrange deals in investments, deal in investments as 
principle, establish, operate or wind up a pension scheme and to make arrangements with a 
view to make transactions in investments.
Mr S says he was cold called by an introducer and told that he would introduce him to a 
financial adviser connected with Rowanmoor to give him an amazing opportunity for 
investment. He says the introducer presented as if he was handling everything and that the 
relationship between Rowanmoor, Carbon Energy Resources Ltd (the introducer) and the 
financial adviser was very close. 
Mr S completed a SIPP application form, this was signed on 12 September 2011. This 
confirmed that: 
He was self-employed. 
His pension was to be invested in April Salumei via Carbon Energy Resources.
His adviser in respect of the SIPP was Regency Financial Resources Ltd. 
On the same date Mr S signed a transfer out form for his existing SIPP. 
Mr S transferred his existing SIPP to Rowanmoor in order to invest in the Carbon Credits 
investment. The amount transferred was just over £106,000. 
Some promotional material provided in relation to the investment said, amongst other things, 
that: 
It was expected that the value of the credits would increase as the project achieved 
certain milestones such as CCB (Climate, Community & Biodiversity) and VCS 
(Verified Carbon Standard) accreditation. 
Changes to legislation in certain countries was expected to enable industry to use 
REDD (VER) Carbon Credits as a fully qualifiable means of carbon offset. 
On 30 May 2011, Scientific Certification Systems issued a Final CCBA Project Validation 
Report on the April Salumei project. This said: 
This report presents the findings of an audit conducted by Scientific Certification 
Systems (SCS), to validate the claim made by Rainforest Project Management 
Limited that the April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management Project conforms to 
the Climate, Community and Biodiversity Project Design Standards (Second Edition). 
SCS has been accredited by the Climate, Community & Biodiversity Alliance (CCBA) 
to perform such validation audits.
And
Following completion of SCS's duly-accredited validation process, it was our 
conclusion that the April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management Project could 
conform to the CCBA Climate, Community and Biodiversity Project Design Standards 
(Second Edition) at the Gold Level (see Appendix A), subject to 43 Non-conformity 
Reports (NCRs), 6 Opportunities for Improvement (OFIs) and 1 New Information 
Requests (NIRs). Rainforest Project Management Limited provided prompt and 
satisfactory responses to the NCRs issued as a result of the initial evaluation. 
Rainforest Project Management Limited was cooperative in providing evidence 
requested to support their comments and responded to the public comments 
submitted through the CCB website. It is our opinion that the Project now fully meets 
the requirements of the standard.
And 
Based on the evidence collected during the site visit, supplemental documentation 
and interviews with local authorities, the Project appears to have permission from the 
appropriate authorities, however the government authorities seems to regularly 
change their positions which makes it difficult.
The April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management Project received CCB validation by SCS 
on 13 June 2011. 
There was an April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management Project VCS Feasibility 
Assessment later prepared. This said: 
The April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management Project achieved validation 
against the Climate Community and Biodiversity (CCB) in June 2011. The project is 
now well defined and aims to move to validation and verification against the Verified 
Carbon Standard (VCS) by the end of 2012.
And 
The project is now commencing the development of the project documentation and 
seeking approval to the Verified Carbon Standard to realise the value of protecting 
the pristine forests, biodiversity and unique communities of the April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management Project region and to realise the aspirations of the 
people whilst protecting this globally important forest area.
And 
Political risk was identified as the major external risk. This assessment is based on 
the average worldwide Governance Indicators which allocate PNG a rating of - 0.71. 
The main areas of internal risk relate to financial viability due to the current early 
development stage of the VCS project. Securing investment to assist in the 
development of the project would further reduce the risk rating potentially to the 10% 
minimum.
Rowanmoor sent Mr S a letter on 17 November 2011 highlighting some of the risks involved: 
We understand that you wish to use funds held by your Pension Scheme to invest in 
carbon benefit units relating to the April Salumei Sustainable Forest Management 
Project in Papua New Guinea. 
As you will be aware, an investment of this nature carries a high risk. Investors must 
have no need for liquidity and be able to withstand a total loss of investment. Whilst 
we are able to inform you of the eligibility of such an investment under current 
pensions legislation and the Definitive Trust Deed and Rules of the Scheme, we do 
not endorse or recommend the services of any particular investment structure, nor 
can we advise you on the suitability of, and risk attached to, the proposed 
investment. 
In addition we cannot advise on the complexities of the legal process of purchasing 
the carbon benefit units or in relation to the contractual documentation. Further, the 
Pension Scheme may become liable for costs, charges, taxes and other liabilities 
relating to the carbon benefit units of which you will not be aware of at the time of the 
initial investment.
As with all complex investments, we would strongly recommend that before 
proceeding you take appropriate legal and other professional advice in the matter, as 
this may prevent issues going forward, and reduce the possibility of incurring 
unnecessary costs in the future. 
On 14 December 2011, Mr S signed the declaration confirming that he understood the 
outlined risks. 
An initial contract note for Carbon Credits was issued on 22 December 2011, for 8535 units 
priced at £7.03 (£60,001). Issued by April Salumei Forest Management Project Foundation.
On 6 February 2012, another contract note was issued for 2845 units also priced at £7.03 
(£20,000.35). Also, issued by April Salome Forest Management Project Foundation. 
A further contract note was issued on 16 July 2012, for a further 2133 units at the same price 
(£14,994.99) and issued by the same entity.  
Mr S explained that the introducer initially advised him to invest around £60,000 and then a 
few months later contacted him and said that hed spoken to Rowanmoor and the adviser 
and that it was a good time to invest more. 
On 28 January 2013, Rowanmoor wrote to Regency in relation to the alert the regulator 
issued on 18 January 2013 saying: Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited has no one authorised and regulated to give 
advice, and it has been our policy since Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited was 
established in October 2006 not to take direct business, nor to permit clients to 
continue a self-investment strategy without an intermediary in the relationship 
advising them. 
We have previously pointed out to intermediaries that if they advise on the 
establishment of a SIPP, they must also advise on the underlying investment 
strategy. The FSA Alert not only confirms this, but also places upon Rowanmoor 
Personal Pensions Limited, as SIPP operator, an obligation to whistle blow should 
we see examples where we believe such advice has not been given.
Regency signed and returned confirming that they had read and understood the regulators 
alert. 
Background to the complaint 
Mr S made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about his 
financial adviser. The FSCS upheld Mr S complaint and it paid him compensation. Following 
this the FSCS provided Mr S with a reassignment of rights.
Mr S complained to Rowanmoor, it didnt uphold his complaint. It said the suitability of the 
investment was the responsibility of Mr S financial adviser, Regency. The investment was 
submitted by Regency for Rowanmoors consideration on 22 August 2011. As part of the 
due diligence process it carried out checks on and obtained corporate documentation for the 
companies involved: 
IFIT Fund Services (Cayman) Limited
Carbon Energy Resources Limited
Consolidated Carbon projects Limited
Buss Murton Law LLP
Rowanmoors final response letter went on to say: 
This verified that the companies all existed and that the Carbon Benefit Units would be 
held by IFIT Fund Services (Cayman) Limited, which was part of the larger IFIT group 
based in Switzerland, and the investment paperwork would be handled by UK solicitors. 
Buss Murton Law LLP.
We received the Project Validation Report and Statement of CCB Standards Validation, 
produced by Scientific Certification Systems, which verified the April Salumei Project in 
Papua New Guinea, which was issuing the Carbon Benefit Units (a form of carbon 
credit). We also received a side letter from IFIT Fund Services (Cayman) Limited 
covering our liability and the withdrawal of funds. Our ongoing due diligence shows that 
the project does exist, and that Qantas and Dutch firm, Eneco have invested in the 
project. Units are still being held in the IFIT registry.
Rowanmoor believes that the issue with the investment is liquidity. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Mr S told us that he 
was advised to make this investment, that the SIPP and underlying investment were safe. 
He says he didnt know his pension would be swallowed up by purchasing very risky illiquid 
assets. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded it should be upheld. Briefly, 
she concluded: 
The complaint had been brought in time as the complaint response letter didnt meet 
the definition of a final response letter. 
Rowanmoor shouldve: 
oIdentified the carbon credit project as a high-risk, speculative and non-
standard investment, which shouldve led to it undertaking enhanced due 
diligence. 
oGiven further consideration to whether or not the investment was suitable for 
a pension scheme.
oMade sure the investment worked as claimed. 
oEnsured that the investment could be independently valued at the point of 
purchase and subsequently. 
oEnsured that there was a viable way for Mr S to sell the investment. 
oEnsured Mr S SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment. 
oBeen aware that Carbon Energy wasnt regulated. 
Rowanmoor took some steps to meet its obligations but it didnt do enough to satisfy 
all of these points. 
If it had undertaken sufficient due diligence it ought to have identified some points of 
concern. Based on the available evidence, at the time Rowanmoor accepted Mr S 
instructions it knew or ought to have known that: 
oThe FSA (Financial Services Authority) had issued a warning about carbon credit 
trading schemes on 3 August 2011 stating: Whilst not all carbon credit trading 
schemes are a scam, it is often not made clear to investors that trading on these 
markets requires skill and experience.
You may lose money on your investment by not being able to sell, or at least get 
a competitive rate, when trading a small volume of carbon credits.
oMr S contract was for CBU credits, this market was unregulated, and these 
werent traded on regulated exchanges. 
oThe investment was predicated on carbon credits being sold for more than what 
they were purchased for. Carbon credits were sold at significantly inflated prices. 
Mr S was sold CBU units at £7.03, which was a mark up of up to 800% on what 
Carbon Energy originally purchased them for. 
oCarbon credits were unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients. 
Overall Rowanmoor shouldnt have added Carbon Credits to its permitted 
investments list for Mr S SIPP. In particular: 
oIt wasnt clear there was or ever would be a market for the Carbon Credits Mr S 
was purchasing, this meant that he may have struggled to realise the investment 
when he wanted to take benefits.
oThe investment allowed Mr S SIPP to become a vehicle for a high-risk and 
speculative investment that wasnt secure and may have been a scam. 
oRowanmoor shouldve known that there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment. In allowing the investment Rowanmoor didnt act with due skill, care 
and diligence and didnt treat Mr S fairly. It didnt meet its regulatory obligations 
and Mr S funds were put at significant risk as a result. 
oThere was no evidence the credits had a value and it shouldve been concluded 
that the credits were low quality.Rowanmoor did issue a number of warnings and had operated on the understanding 
that Mr S had received regulated advice. It could take some comfort in that, but it still 
had its own independent set of obligations. 
It received a large number of introductions from the same party all of which resulted 
in consumers pensions being invested in carbon credits. It isnt plausible that carbon 
credits were suitable for all of a significant group of retail investors. 
Taking everything into account Rowanmoor shouldnt have accepted Mr S 
application to open a SIPP with it in order to invest in carbon credits. If it had done 
so, its most likely Mr S would never have opened a SIPP or entered into the 
transaction at all. So, its fair and reasonable for Rowanmoor to compensate Mr S for 
the losses hes suffered. 
Because agreement wasnt reached this case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction 
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, Ive concluded the complaint is one we can consider.
Rowanmoor initially contended that the complaint had been brought out of time on the basis 
that Mr S referred his complaint to this service more than six months after it issued its final 
response letter in response to his complaint. 
Our investigator concluded that the complaint had been referred to us in time because the 
letter Rowanmoor issued didnt meet the definition of a final response letter  and, in turn, 
didnt start the clock, so to speak, for the purposes of the six month rule. 
Rowanmoor didnt make any further submissions in respect of this issue. However, for the 
sake of completeness, Ive still considered whether or not the complaint was referred to us in 
time. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the letter Rowanmoor has sought to 
rely on for the purposes of contending the complaint has been referred to us too late doesnt 
meet the definition of a final response letter. So, the complaint is one we can consider. 
Merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 are of particular relevance here, in my view.
Ouseley J in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a 
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application 
of the Principles in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878). I am therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint. 
The Berkeley Burke judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr S case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. However, I think it is important 
to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take 
into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of 
difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a 
legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that Rowanmoor was under any obligation to 
advise Mr S on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application or not permitting an investment isnt the same thing as advising Mr S on the 
merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and I 
am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr S SIPP 
application, Rowanmoor complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles 
to act with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business 
affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
rules and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Rowanmoor could 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, it is my view that in order for Rowanmoor 
to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to consider whether to accept or reject particular 
applications for investments, with its regulatory obligations in mind.
I also want to reemphasise here that I do not say that Rowanmoor was under any obligation 
to advise Mr S on the SIPP and/or the underlying investment in Carbon Credits. Refusing to 
accept an application is not the same thing as advising Mr S on the merits of investing 
and/or switching to the SIPP. 
Rowanmoor accepted Mr S application on the basis that he was being advised by a 
regulated adviser, I think it could take some comfort in this. The volumes of business 
received from this adviser arent, in and of themselves, concerning. However, it does appear 
that many of the consumers introduced by this adviser were investing in high-risk esoteric 
investments. Overall, Ive not seen enough to definitively conclude that Rowanmoor shouldnt have 
accepted business from Mr S adviser. So, Ive gone on to consider if Rowanmoor shouldve 
permitted Mr S subsequent investment in Carbon Credits.
The due diligence carried out by Rowanmoor on the Carbon Credits investment  
and what it should have done
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that it should  as a minimum  have:
Identified the Carbon Credits investment as a high-risk, speculative and non-
standard investment, so it shouldve carried out thorough due diligence on it.
Examined where Mr S money would be invested  in other words, what type of 
Carbon Credit he was investing in.
Considered whether the investment was suitable for a personal pension scheme.
Made sure the investment was genuine  in other words, not a scam or linked to 
fraudulent activity.
Made sure the investment worked as claimed.
Ensured that the investment could be independently valued, both at the point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensured Mr S SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment.
The FSA (the then regulator) had identified that trading on these markets requires skill and 
experience. These investments were unlikely to be suitable for the majority of retail 
investors. And they were only generally likely to be suitable for a small element of the 
investment portfolio of a sophisticated investor.
There is no price transparency  there is no independent source regarding the price being 
set, and nothing to confirm at what price the credits were acquired. So, there was no way to 
establish how the £7.03 price was being arrived at.
There couldve been a very significant difference between the price the units were acquired 
at and the price these were sold to Mr S at. This is something Rowanmoor could have and 
should have investigated.
Assuming that Mr S would hold valid units or credits, there doesnt appear to be any 
measure of the quality of the credits in question. In other words, were the units or credits 
being generated in Papua New Guinea valid? I havent seen any independent verification 
that the units met the VCS standard, albeit in this case it appears that at the time of the 
sale VCS validation hadnt yet been applied for, this was planned for late 2012 according 
to the reports provided. So, at the time, there was a risk this validation wouldnt be 
achieved. I havent seen evidence of a registration of the project with the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the time. The lack of that 
registration could suggest that the relevant standard hadnt been met.
I havent seen that it was demonstrated that there was any ready market for Mr S units. It 
wasnt demonstrated how Mr S would find businesses to buy his small allocation of Carbon Credit units.
At the time there was little confirmation that Mr S SIPP was acquiring anything of any 
realisable value, whether the units existed or, if they did, whether they were being sold at 
inflated prices.
Rowanmoor may consider that carrying out the kind of assessment that would be required to 
establish and interrogate such factors as Ive discussed and carry out appropriate due 
diligence, imposes on it requirements over and above its responsibilities as a SIPP provider. 
But Im satisfied these are the kind of things Rowanmoor needed to do when accepting Mr S 
proposed investment to meet the regulatory obligations placed on it by the Principles. I dont 
think that this amounts to a conclusion that Rowanmoor shouldve assessed the suitability of 
the Carbon Credits investment for Mr S individual circumstances.
Although I accept Rowanmoor did do some due diligence, this doesnt seem to have 
extended beyond looking at marketing brochures, corporation documents for the businesses 
involved and a report prepared for the projects CCB validation. The due diligence therefore 
didnt cover all  or even a significant number of  the points Ive set out above. So, Im 
satisfied that in these specific circumstances Rowanmoor didnt carry out due diligence at 
the time to satisfy its reasonable responsibilities as a SIPP provider.
If Rowanmoor had completed sufficient due diligence on Mr S Carbon Credit 
investment, what should it reasonably have concluded?
It could be that the investment was/is legitimate, and that Mr S owns Carbon Credits. I also 
accept that technically there was a market for Carbon Credits. But its now been highlighted 
that it often wasnt possible to sell them even though there was a market for them. And in 
particular, there are reports that voluntary Carbon Credits arent actively traded and that 
buyers dont buy from private individuals. So, although they technically worked as claimed, 
the reality was very different.
The FSA warning was published before Mr S SIPP was set up and this made it clear that 
there may be issues with selling Carbon Credits. Im satisfied this is something Rowanmoor 
shouldve identified as part of its due diligence and the fact Mr S might then have struggled 
to realise the investment shouldve caused it significant concern  especially considering that 
almost all the money transferred (about £100,000) to the SIPP by Mr S was invested in 
Carbon Credits. It isnt clear how Mr S would be able to take benefits from his pension if the 
investment was difficult to value or realise.
It could be argued that not being able to independently value an investment wouldnt be 
indicative of its performance or legitimacy. But the investment was predicated on the Carbon 
Credits being sold for more than what was paid for them. And so, I think there shouldve 
been concerns if it wasnt possible to independently value them. And if an independent 
valuation had been possible, its now been highlighted that voluntary Carbon Credits were 
sold at significantly inflated prices so it seems likely this would then have been identified.
Rowanmoor should also have been aware that Mr S was unlikely to benefit, in terms of the 
investment itself, from any regulatory protections (the investment being unregulated) such as 
access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme or this service.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied there were a number of concerns Rowanmoor shouldve 
identified. It shouldve known there was a significant risk of consumer detriment and it 
shouldnt have added the Carbon Credits to the list of permitted investments for Mr S SIPP. 
By doing so, I still think it didnt act with due skill, care and diligence or treat Mr S fairly.To be clear, Im not making a finding that Rowanmoor shouldve assessed the suitability of 
the Carbon Credit investment for Mr S. I accept Rowanmor had no obligation to give advice 
to Mr S, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for him.
At the point Mr S investment was arranged Rowanmoor wouldve been aware that he was 
investing the vast majority of his pension fund in an unregulated, esoteric and high-risk 
investment which might be difficult to sell. I acknowledge that Rowanmoor wouldnt be aware 
whether that was the entirety of his pension savings because he may have had other 
benefits elsewhere. But it was an indicator of the kind of risk to which Mr S was being 
exposed. These were red flags which shouldve caused Rowanmoor significant concern as 
to whether to allow Mr S to hold that investment in his SIPP.
Im satisfied Rowanmoor couldve identified the concerns Ive mentioned, and ought to have 
drawn the conclusions Ive set out, based on what was known at the time. 
Rowanmoor ought to have identified significant concerns in relation to the investment, and 
they ought to have led it to conclude it shouldnt accept the Carbon Credit investment. It 
ought to have realised there was a high risk of detriment to Mr S.
In conclusion
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Rowanmoor acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mr S fairly by accepting the 
investment in Carbon Credits or accepting the application for the SIPP. Rowanmoor didnt 
meet its regulatory obligations or the standards of good practice at the time, and it allowed 
Mr S pension fund to be put at significant risk as a result.
Did Rowanmoor act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr S instructions?
 
In my view, for the reasons given, Rowanmoor shouldve refused to allow Mr S investment 
in Carbon Credits. So, things shouldnt have progressed beyond that. Had Rowanmoor 
acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable 
in my view to conclude that it shouldnt have permitted the investment.
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Mr S to 
sign risk or indemnity declarations wasnt an effective way for Rowanmoor to meet its 
regulatory obligations to treat him fairly, given the concerns Rowanmoor ought to have had 
about the investment.
Having identified a risk, it is my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would be to 
refuse to accept the investment in Carbon Credits  not put in place a process asking Mr S 
to sign declarations in an attempt to absolve itself of responsibility. I dont think the 
declarations Mr S signed meant that Rowanmoor could ignore its duty to treat him fairly.
I think Rowanmoor refusing to accept business and sharing the concerns that led to that 
decision wouldve likely meant that Mr S wouldve acted very differently. This refusal 
wouldve tended to highlight the concerns with making such an investment. Indeed, Mr S told 
us that one of the main reasons he was happy to go ahead was that he was reassured that 
Rowanmoor wouldnt have held an investment that wasnt safe and legitimate.
In any event, I dont believe it would be reasonable to assume that another SIPP operator 
wouldve allowed the investment, had Rowanmoor not permitted it. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to say that Rowanmoor shouldnt compensate Mr S for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator wouldve made the same mistakes as Ive found Rowanmoor did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider wouldve 
complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt 
have allowed the investment.
It could be argued that other parties have contributed to Mr S losses and so its not fair to 
hold Rowanmoor fully responsible. But Ive concluded Mr S wouldnt have invested but for 
Rowanmoors failure to carry out sufficient due diligence. And in these circumstances, Im 
satisfied its fair to hold it responsible for the whole of the loss suffered. Im not asking it to 
account for losses that go beyond the consequences of its failings.
As set out above, Im satisfied that Rowanmoor shouldve put a stop to the transaction and 
that the investment wouldnt have gone ahead if itd treated Mr S fairly and reasonably. Ive 
carefully considered causation, contributory negligence, apportionment of damages and 
DISP 3.6.4. But in the circumstances here, Im still satisfied its fair for Rowanmoor to 
compensate Mr S for his full loss.
I acknowledge that Mr S has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the 
terms of his reassignment of rights require him to return any compensation paid by the 
FSCS in the event this complaint is successful. So, I will make no allowance for what hes 
been paid by the FSCS. It will be for Mr S to make the arrangements to make any 
repayments he needs to make to the FSCS.
Putting things right
I consider that Rowanmoor failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations and didnt put 
a stop to the transactions that are the subject of this complaint. My aim in awarding fair 
compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would likely have been in had it not 
been for Rowanmoors failings. Had Rowanmoor acted appropriately, I think its most likely 
that Mr S wouldnt have invested in Carbon Credits.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S' circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Rowanmoor do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Rowanmoor must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Rowanmoor should add interest as set out below:
Rowanmoor should pay into Mr S' pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Rowanmoor is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S' pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of the 
majority of this pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Rowanmoor deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Rowanmoor should give Mr S 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Rowanmoor should establish an amount its willing to accept for the investment/s as a 
commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of 
the investment/s.
If Rowanmoor is able to purchase the illiquid investment/s then the price paid to purchase 
the holding/s will be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid 
into the SIPP to secure the holding/s).
If Rowanmoor is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Rowanmoor may require that Mr S provides 
an undertaking to pay Rowanmoor any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Rowanmoor will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Rowanmoor totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and because of this it cant be closed 
after compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr S to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. So, if the SIPP needs to be kept open only 
because of the illiquid investment/s and is used only or substantially to hold that asset, then 
any future SIPP fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S' circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr S complaint. Rowanmoor Personal Pensions 
Limited must pay Mr S compensation as set out above. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a 
clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Rowanmoor Personal Pensions 
Limited should pay Mr S the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the 
amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £150,000, I recommend that Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited pays Mr S 
the balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited. It is unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then 
any portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mr S. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Rowanmoor 
Personal Pensions Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited may request an undertaking from Mr S that either 
he repays to Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited any amount Mr S may receive from 
the portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Rowanmoor at that point.
Mr S should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman