DRN-4233807
The complaint
Mr S complains that Logbook Money Limited provided a logbook loan to him which he was
unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Mr S made an application for a loan to Logbook Money in July 2021. As it was a logbook
loan, he provided his car as security for the loan. The details were as follows:
Start date Capital amount Total repayable Weekly 
repaymentDuration
8/7/2021 £1,200 £3,576.30 £45.85 78 weeks
Mr S advised Logbook Money that he was about to start a new job, and he provided
evidence of that. Based on the evidence of his income from that job, Logbook Money
assessed that he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. He wanted the
loan to tide him over before receiving his first salary payment, as he wouldnt be paid for six
weeks.
Mr S made three weekly payments up until the end of July 2021. Unfortunately he didnt
pass the probation period for his new job and his employment was terminated at the end of
August 2021. He failed to make any further payments, and his car was repossessed, and
sold at auction in November 2021 for £1,750, leaving a balance then outstanding of £1,072.
Mr S made a complaint to Logbook Money that he couldnt afford the loan and that Logbook
Money shouldnt have taken into account his prospective earnings in his new job before hed
passed the probation period. He further said the car was sold at an undervalue.
Logbook Money carried out a credit check and also took details of Mr Ss income and
expenditure over the telephone. It further considered three months of bank statements and
took into account a letter of offer of employment and setting out his prospective income. It
assessed that Mr S was able to afford the loan. It denied that the car was sold for an
undervalue and has shown us details of the bids on the car and an independent valuation.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our Adjudicator thought that Logbook Money had
acted reasonably and that it was fair to take Mr Ss prospective income into account.
Mr S didnt agree, pointing out that some of his income from his bank statements was a
rental payment for a music studio, and he received half that rent from another person. He
believes that the money received was counted towards his disposable income but the money
paid out wasnt counted. He also said he had child maintenance obligations and had been
told by Social Services that he should be paying 15-20% of his income for this. He also said
that he didnt earn what he expected to from his job and that Logbook Money shouldnt have
lent him the money while he was still in a probation period.
Our Adjudicator pointed out that Logbook Moneys assessment of his income and
expenditure was based on future income and the information he had given it about his
income and expenditure in the sales call.
I issued a provisional decision. Whilst I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, Mr S had 
claimed that the car had been sold at an undervalue which I considered needed to be 
addressed by obtaining details of the sale from Logbook Money. Having done that, I was 
satisfied the car hadnt been sold at an undervalue.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Logbook Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr S would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Logbook Money to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Logbook Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Logbook Money had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Logbook Money to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meeta higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Having listened to the sales call, I think it is clear that Mr S wanted the loan to tide him over
until he got paid in his new job. He explained that he was in a job but that he wouldnt be
paid in the new job until the end of August 2021, for some six weeks. So far as I can see, he
wasnt in full time employment at the time. So his contention that Logbook Money should
have waited until hed passed the probation period would have defeated the reason why he
wanted the loan.
Logbook Money obtained three months of bank statements from Mr S, for April to June
2021. Based on those statements alone I dont think Logbook Money should have approved
the loan. They only show an income from benefits and a couple of agency jobs, and based
on his expenditure this wouldnt have been enough. However Logbook Money is entitled to
take future increases in income into account:
CONC 5.2A Of The Consumer Credit Rules, set out in the handbook of the Financial
Conduct Authority (which applies to consumer credit agreements) says:

(2)
The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable
estimate, of the customers current income.
.
(5)
The firm may only take into account an expected future increase in the customers income
where the firm reasonably believes on the basis of appropriate evidence that the increase is
likely to happen during the term of the agreement or, in the case of an open-end agreement,
during the likely duration of the credit.
So, based on the offer of employment produced by Mr S, Logbook Money had to decide 
whether the increase in income was likely to happen. Here Mr S had a firm offer of
employment with a contract. The offer did include a probation period, but most offers of
employment would include that. Its unfortunate that Mr S didnt pass that probation period,
but I dont think it was unreasonable for Logbook Money to rely on it in assessing Mr Ss
income.
Mr S gave details of his monthly expenditure over the phone in the sales call. He didnt
mention the studio rental nor his liability for child maintenance. As Ive said Logbook Money
obtained three months bank statements from Mr S. These dont show any maintenance
payments but they do show figures for studio rental. But its not immediately obvious that this
was a liability for Mr S, as the figure for that rental is preceded in the statements each time
by a corresponding credit, which appears to cancel out the liability. When working out his
disposable income the incoming payments towards this rent were not counted as income.
From the credit check it was shown that Mr S had two County Court Judgments registered
against him, one in 2017 and another in 2019. I believe these were mostly discharged. He
had a credit payment of £120 a month but no other loans or credit. So, whilst this would have
given Mr S a poor credit score, I dont think it was a bar to him getting the loan from Logbook
Money. Based on the figures given by Mr S, and the statements, it was assessed that he
would be receiving a net income of around £1,450 to £1,500 a month, which would have
given him a disposable income of £497- £547 a month. As a monthly figure, the loan
payment would have been £198.68. I think, if Mr S had continued in his new job, this wouldhave been affordable, based on the information he gave. I appreciate that he was paid less
than the payment figures set out in his letter of offer, but in my view Logbook Money lent the
money in good faith, based on its reasonable belief as to his likely income. So I think that
Logbook Money made a fair lending decision.
On the question of the repossession and sale of the car, Mr S has shown us an estimated
retail value of £4,195, although it would have been unlikely to reach that in an auction.
Logbook Money rejected several lower offers. An independent valuer said that after taking
into consideration the condition, age, and history of the vehicle, they believed £1,750 was a
fair price. The average bid was £1,383, after several bids at auction, so the price obtained
was fair. I think Logbook Money acted reasonably in that respect.
As neither party has  commented on my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by them. 
Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman