DRN-3941834
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly when it agreed three credit card 
accounts for her and subsequent credit limit increases which she says were unaffordable for 
her circumstances.
What happened
Miss B applied for a credit card account (card A) with NewDay in January 2018. The credit 
card was approved with a credit limit of £500. In September 2018 the credit limit was 
increased to £1,400, to £2,150 in January 2019 and then again in February 2020 to £3,650. 
Miss B applied for a second credit card account (card D) with NewDay also in January 2018. 
The credit card was approved with a credit limit of £450. In August 2019 the credit limit was 
increased to £1,450 and then again in February 2020 to £2,950. 
Miss B applied for a third credit card (card O) with NewDay in July 2018. The credit card was 
approved with a credit limit of £450. In November 2018 the credit limit was increased to 
£1,350, to £2,100 in April 2019 and then again in September 2019 to £3,650.
NewDay reviewed Miss Bs applications and credit limit increases on her three accounts. 
Having done so, NewDay didnt uphold her complaint and Miss B brought the complaint 
here.
NewDay looked again at Miss Bs complaint before an Investigator was assigned to her 
case. It decided to make an offer to settle the complaint. NewDay offered to refund interest 
and charges on card O from the September 2019 credit limit increase on any balance which 
exceeded the previous (April 2019) credit limit increase (£2,100). It offered to refund interest 
and charges on card A from the February 2020 credit limit increase on any balance which 
exceeded the previous (January 2019) credit limit increase (£2,150). It also offered to refund 
interest and charges on card D from the February 2020 credit limit increase on any balance 
which exceeded the previous (August 2019) credit limit increase (£1,450).
Miss B, whilst finding NewDays offer broadly acceptable, thought it needed to go further. 
Miss B explained that after falling behind with repayments to card D, NewDay marked the 
account in default. Miss B thinks NewDay should remove the details of the default from her 
credit file to settle her complaint. 
NewDay considered Miss Bs request to remove the details of the default from her credit file 
but it didnt agree to do so. It explained that the balance owed on the account at the time it 
was marked in default (£3,137) was more than the previous credit limit (£1,450) and as 
Miss B had missed six payments, it thinks the account still would have been marked in 
default if the limit hadnt increased. So it didnt revise its offer.
Our Investigator considered Miss Bs complaint and he thought NewDay lent responsibly 
when it agreed the three credit card accounts and the credit limit increases up until August 
2019, when it agreed to increase the credit limit on card D to £1,450. He thought NewDay 
shouldnt have increased Miss Bs credit limits in September 2019 and February 2020. He 
also thought NewDays decision not to remove the details of the default on her card D 
account from Miss Bs credit file was reasonable. As Miss B didnt agree with this, the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
Since referring her complaint to us, Miss B has told us about NewDay not making 
adjustments in its communication to allow for her disability when corresponding about the 
repayment of amounts still owing on her accounts. Whilst we have passed on her comments 
to NewDay, as this did not form part of the complaint Miss B made to it and then referred to 
us, it isnt a matter I can consider as part of this decision, which only looks into whether 
NewDay lent responsibly and whether it should remove the details of the default on Miss Bs 
card D account from her credit file. Miss B remains free to bring a separate complaint about 
the way NewDay makes adjustments in its communications to her  as she has done 
previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. Having 
thought about all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Before entering into a credit agreement, NewDay needed to check that Miss B could afford 
to repay the credit out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having 
to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for 
example the amount offered, and to Miss Bs particular circumstances. 
So, Ive considered whether NewDay completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
it first opened each account for Miss B and later when it increased her credit limits to satisfy 
itself that she would be able to repay the credit offered within a reasonable period of time. If 
it didnt do this, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, 
ultimately, did NewDay make fair lending decisions? As NewDay has offered to settle the 
complaint from the credit limit increase on card O in September 2019 onwards, Ive only 
needed to consider the credit limit increases on her accounts up until that point.
Miss B told NewDay her income was £10,000 a year when she applied for card A and card D 
accounts (£814 a month after deductions), that she was not working because of her disability 
and that her living expenses were £200 a month. On her card O account application, she 
said she was single and living with family. NewDay recorded her existing debt as between 
£400 and £500 and the most recent default showing on her credit file in January was from 
nearly six years earlier, and this was no longer showing by the time she applied for her card 
O account in July. 
I think Miss B was managing her existing accounts with no recent signs of difficulty and the 
amount of money she was borrowing was relatively low compared to what shed said about 
her means. Altogether, considering what NewDay knew about Miss Bs circumstances 
alongside the amounts of credit shed applied for, I think NewDays checks were reasonable 
and proportionate and it wasnt irresponsible to open the accounts for her with the credit 
limits given. 
When NewDay started to increase Miss Bs credit limits from September 2018 it said that it 
considered how shed been managing her account and any other debts she had. It provided 
some of the information it relied on, and Ive reviewed this. I can see that Miss B was 
managing her accounts well and within agreed limits  until July 2019 when she briefly went above her limit by £68 on her card O account before substantially reducing the balance the 
following month. Miss B paid more than the minimum payment required on her accounts on 
significantly more occasions than on those when she only paid the minimum payment. Whilst 
I note that Miss Bs overall indebtedness was steadily increasing, the were no obvious signs 
of repayment or financial difficulties  for example, late or missed payments. So I again think 
the decisions to increase the credit limits on Miss Bs accounts between September 2018 
and September 2019 were responsible ones.
Ive not considered the credit limit increases beyond September 2019 because the offer to 
settle, which Ive detailed in the above, is in line with the approach I would expect NewDay to 
take to putting things right if I found it increased Miss Bs credit limits irresponsibly. I 
understand that NewDay has paid the refunds into Miss Bs accounts. Miss B has asked 
NewDay to remove the default it registered on her card D account  this is not something it 
offered to do and it maintains that the default was applied correctly.
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, I dont find that NewDay was 
wrong to open Miss Bs accounts or increase the credit limits between September 2018 and 
September 2019. So even if I were to find the increases to the credit limits from September 
2019 onwards were lent irresponsibly, it is more likely than not that Miss B would have still 
owed a balance on her NewDay account without the later credit limit increases. 
NewDay registered the account in default because Miss B stopped making payment to the 
account altogether, had made only one payment over the previous seven months, and was 
over the credit limit for 13 consecutive months. I think Miss B would have still displayed the 
same repayment difficulties had NewDay not increased her credit limits as she had not been 
able to make any payments towards the outstanding balance. So, I think it was reasonable 
for NewDay to record the account in default when it did. And I also think it is reasonable for 
NewDay not to remove the default or the negative information reported on her credit file. I 
know this is not the outcome Miss B wouldve wanted but I hope my explanation helps her 
understand my reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman