DRN-4355537
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr P and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr P could
afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 in August 2022. It had an APR of 320% and 
was to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £270, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £6,463.92. L2G says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out on Mr P. 
The information Mr P provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event, 
adjusted Mr Ps declarations to account for what its verification checks showed and this left 
enough for Mr P to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr P has said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and L2G have said. While this may have been a first 
loan that L2G was providing, Mr Ps previous difficulties with credit lead me to think that it 
needed to do more to establish that Mr P did have the funds to make the monthly payments 
to this loan. 
However, I dont think that L2G doing more here would have altered its decision to lend to  
Mr P. I say this because having looked at the information provided, when Mr Ps existing 
expenditure (including reasonable amounts for repayments towards his defaulted accounts) 
was deducted from his monthly income, he does at the time at least have had sufficient 
funds left over to make the monthly payments he was committing to.
I accept that Mr P appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information L2G obtained. 
For example, hes said that he was paying £300 a month in child maintenance to his ex-
partner. But I cant see how L2G would have found out about this. Particularly as this wasnt 
declared as part of Mr Ps expenditure and these payments arent immediately apparent on 
his bank statements. 
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, I dont think that L2G did anything 
wrong when deciding to lend to Mr P, as I dont think that carrying out further checks would 
have prevented it from lending.
So overall I dont think that L2G treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when providing him 
with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should Mr P be experiencing difficulty and it choose to 
collect payments from him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman