DRN-4199259
The complaint
This complaints about a request that Mrs B made to Barclays Bank UK Plc to release its 
charge over her property. She say that due to delays and errors on Barclays part, she lost 
out on a low interest rate for an equity release mortgage, and as a result, the balance will 
grow much more quickly over the life of the mortgage. Mrs B has third party representation in 
bringing the complaint to us.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs B and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the key events, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
In early 2022, Mrs B was trying to arrange an equity release mortgage. She had an offer for 
£100,000 from her new lender, with a lifetime fixed rate of 2.88%. Mrs Bs solicitors 
discovered that Barclays had a charge registered over her property, relating to a mortgage 
shed repaid many years earlier. The solicitors records show it called Barclays on 
11 February 2022, to be told the charge should be released in about five working days. In 
fact, it took much longer for the charge to be removed; by the time it had, the original offer 
had expired, and Mrs Bs new lender re-offered the equity release mortgage at 4.10%. 
Our investigator thought that Barclays should reimburse Mrs B the extra amount by which 
the mortgage balance will grow due to the accrual of interest at a higher rate. He 
recommended this cover the first eight years of the mortgage, based on Office of National 
Statistics life expectancy data. Mrs Bs representative agreed to this. 
Barclays has not given a firm indication either way on whether it agrees or not. It has instead 
repeatedly asked for more time, and made additional requests for information from Mrs B. 
This matter has been outstanding now since January 2023; procedural fairness requires 
there be no further delays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. On the balance of 
probabilities, Im persuaded by the available evidence that Mrs Bs solicitors spoke to 
Barclays on 11 February 2022, and were told the charge would be released in five working 
days. Barclays separately confirmed that this is its normal working standard. If that had 
happened, the charge should have been removed on or before 18 February 2022. 
Barclays has now said that due to the particular type of charge involved, five days would, in 
fact, not have been enough. Im not sure how that helps the banks argument; all that means 
is that it would have failed to meet the undertaking Im persuaded it gave on 
11 February 2022, and would still be liable for the consequences thereof.
Barclays has also pointed to the fact that after the charge was released, a further 29 days 
passed before the equity release completed. Ive thought about that carefully. The available 
evidence doesnt suggest the existence of any other impediment to the new equity release 
mortgage being completed, beyond the removal of Barclays charge. 
On balance, I think the most likely reason for the passage of 29 days before completion was 
that by then, there was no longer any time pressure to complete. Overall, Im persuaded that 
if Barclays had done what it should have done, when it should have done it, Mrs Bs equity 
release mortgage would have completed on a lifetime fixed rate of 2.88% instead of 4.14%. 
Barclays, by its errors and omissions, has caused significant financial detriment to Mrs B; 
that detriment is ongoing and will continue to incur for as long as Mrs B has the lifetime 
mortgage. However, I agree with the investigators view that Barclays should make good that 
detriment, albeit for the first eight years only. 
Both mortgage offers contained a projection of the growth in the mortgage over the first eight 
years. Those projections, which Barclays has seen, show that the higher rate Mrs B is 
means her mortgage balance will grow to £138,741.26 by year eight, whereas it would have 
grown to £125,875.51 had it been at the lower rate. The difference between the two, 
£12,866.05, is the redress due to Mrs B as a result of Barclays shortcomings in how it 
handled the request for the release of the charge on her property.
Mrs B will receive the redress before much of the loss has been incurred, As theres a 
theoretical financial benefit to her doing so, I dont award compensation for her time, trouble 
and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs B £12,866.05 in full and 
final settlement of this complaint. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman