DRN-3322642
The complaint
Mr S complains that Brewin Dolphin Limited failed to execute limit orders hed placed,
causing him financial loss and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S held shares in Company A. In June 2019, Company A announced its intention to delist 
from one stock exchange and relist on another. Mr S placed a number of sell limit orders 
with Brewin Dolphin, anticipating that the share price would rise upon relisting, and hoping to 
profit accordingly.
Brewin Dolphin worked with a partner custodian. There were issues surrounding the 
administration of the corporate event. These resulted in Mr Ss stock not being transferred to 
the new exchange in time for the first few days trading in July 2019. Consequently, Brewin 
Dolphin was unable to execute Mr Ss orders. By the time the stock had been transferred 
and was available to trade, the share price of Company A had dropped significantly. The 
limit orders in dispute were for 10,000 shares each at prices of 2.50CAD, 3.00CAD and 
4.00CAD.
Mr S complained to Brewin Dolphin. It didnt uphold his complaint, saying the 
administrative failings were beyond its control and that it had sought to resolve things as 
soon as possible. It maintained that it could not be held responsible for any failings by the 
custodian and therefore wasnt at fault for being unable to execute Mr Ss orders. Mr S 
disagreed and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at things and thought Brewin Dolphin was entitled to rely on its 
terms and that issues with the custodian were beyond its control. Mr S remained unhappy, 
saying that he had no recourse to the custodian, as his contract was with Brewin Dolphin. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review things.
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision, giving both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my likely conclusions, prior to my issuing a final decision.
The material content of that provisional decision was as follows: 
At issue here is whether Brewin Dolphin had responsibilities towards Mr S in respect of any inability 
to execute his instructions. Or whether its entitled to rely on its terms to limit its liability for failings it 
deems beyond its control. Mr S complained that Brewin Dolphins alleged failure caused him 
financial loss and inconvenience.
At the outset, Id like to clarify my role, which is to determine what, in my view, is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint. If I decide a business ought to have done something 
differently, I would look to put the consumer in the position theyd have been in, but for any errors. 
So I need to think about any consequences that have flowed from the events complained of and 
their impact on the consumer.
From time to time, betterment in a consumers overall circumstances occurs. In other words, even if 
the business did something it shouldnt have, or didnt do something it shouldve, the consumer is 
left better off than they would have been, even if nothing had gone wrong. In such situations, it might 
not be necessary to make any findings about what, if anything, went wrong, as thered be no need to 
make any award or direction to restore a consumer to a pre-incident state. Any alleged financial loss 
or material distress or inconvenience would, effectively, have been ameliorated.
I understand Mr S retained his stock whilst the share price was low and stagnant, but sold as prices 
became more favourable. Ive looked at the historical share price data for Company A. Without 
making any findings about why the limit orders were not executed, Ive considered a scenario where 
all three of the limit orders in dispute were reached and would, had all gone right, have been 
executed. Brewin Dolphin has provided information to show that, between February and June 2021, 
Mr S sold shares exceeding the total number covered by those limit orders, at prices of 4.80CAD, 
6.50CAD and 7.00CAD.
So in this case, by simple comparison, Mr S has effectively benefitted from Brewin Dolphins 
inability, for whatever reason, to execute his limit orders in July 2019. So I dont need to decide 
whether Brewin Dolphin treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when it didnt execute his limit orders, 
because subsequent events have more than remedied any detriment Mr S may have suffered as a 
result. Even allowing for the addition of 8% simple interest since the dates of the limit orders being 
reached and variations in currency exchange rates, Mr S has been left significantly better off 
financially by selling his shares later than hed originally wanted to. So I conclude, on balance, that 
Mr S has most likely not suffered a financial loss. And equally, even were I to conclude that the 
business had caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience, I still wouldnt consider it fair to ask 
Brewin Dolphin to make any award, in view of the overall advantage to Mr S from selling later at 
higher prices.
Given this I dont intend to ask Brewin Dolphin to do anything. I appreciate this will likely leave Mr S 
with unanswered questions about what happened in July 2019. But I hope that by emphasising my 
role, he will, at least, understand why Ive taken this approach.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence by 18 Feb 2022. There was no response from Brewin Dolphin. Mr S did respond. 
He didnt provide any further information but indicated that he did not accept my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, my thinking and conclusions remain the same. So for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision, Im not asking Brewin Dolphin to do anything in respect of Mr 
Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Brewin Dolphin to do anything in respect of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jo ChilversOmbudsman