DRN-3731320
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly withdrawn cover under his legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to Amtrust includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
In 2018, Mr C made a claim on his LEI policy to pursue a legal claim for personal injury. 
Cover was initially agreed but in 2021, the Solicitors representing Mr C reported to Amtrust 
that his legal claim no longer enjoyed reasonable prospects of success  meaning there was 
less than a 51% chance that Mr Cs case would succeed. Under the policy terms, cover is 
only provided where the claim is likely to be successful.
On receipt of this information, Amtrust withdrew cover. It said this would remain its position 
until it received Counsels assessment confirming the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success.
In February 2022, Mr C got in touch with Amtrust. Amtrust sought an update from the 
Solicitors as to whether Counsel had provided an updated prospects of success assessment 
but were informed it hadnt and that they were no longer representing Mr C. 
Unhappy that hed been left without cover, Mr C made a complaint to this Service. Our 
investigator considered it and said it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the legal advice 
itd received from the Solicitors. 
She explained the Legal Ombudsman would determine whether the Solicitors had acted 
correctly or not. And that until such time or if Mr C obtained his own legal opinion - which 
confirmed successful prospects of success - she was unable to say Amtrust had acted 
unreasonably by relying on the legal advice in deciding to withdraw cover.
Mr C remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust is the underwriter of the LEI policy and is responsible for agreeing or declining 
cover. Whilst Amtrust appoints a claims handling company to deal with claims on its behalf, 
Amtrust remains ultimately responsible for any decision the claims handler makes  so its 
the responsible party here.  
Conversely, Amtrust isnt responsible for the actions of the Solicitors who dealt with Mr Cs 
legal claim. Amtrusts involvement with the Solicitors is limited to receiving legal advice and 
using that advice to decide whether the terms and conditions of the LEI policy have been 
met. The condition this complaint hinges on is whether the legal claim enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of success. 
I understand Mr C has already made a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman about the 
professionalism of the Solicitors. Such concerns are outside the remit of this Service. My 
determination will focus on whether Amtrust treated Mr C fairly by withdrawing LEI cover. 
And in doing so, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the 
Solicitors advice. 
Mr C has provided lengthy submissions to explain why it was unfair for Amtrust to withdraw 
legal cover. I want to assure him that Ive read these and whilst my decision may appear curt 
in comparison, this is not my intention. It is, however, my role to determine what I consider to 
be key when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and 
Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy document which says in respect of prospects of success:
At any time we may form the view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of 
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or 
any further support.
Im satisfied the policy makes it clear Amtrust could withdraw cover should Mr Cs legal claim 
have less than a 51% chance of success at any time during the life of the claim. So even 
though Mr Cs claim initially enjoyed prospects of success, that doesnt mean cover was 
guaranteed for the entirety of the legal claim. 
Amtrust isnt a legal expert and so to determine whether a legal claim enjoys prospects of 
success, Solicitors are asked to provide a prospects of success assessment - which Amtrust 
is entitled to rely on. Having been told the legal claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success by the Solicitors, Amtrust withdrew cover. The Solicitors did get back in touch with 
Amtrust to say it wanted to review the prospects assessment  at which time Amtrust said 
cover wouldnt be reinstated until it received a positive prospects assessment from Counsel. 
Ive considered whether at this point  having been told the Solicitors wanted to have 
another look at whether the legal claim had prospects of success  Amtrust should have 
acted differently, but Im not persuaded it needed to on the information I have. I say this 
because the Solicitors didnt specify which aspect of the prospects assessment it wanted to 
review, nor did it provide a timeframe as to how long it would take to do so. And I dont 
consider it reasonable to expect Amtrust to reinstate cover on an open-ended basis. At that 
point, the only current legal advice Amtrust had was that the case didnt have a reasonable 
chance of success.
Both parties were given the opportunity to provide us with a copy of the full prospects of 
success assessment, but neither did. Mr C replied to explain why the Solicitors alleged 
malpractice warranted the validity of the assessment being questioned, but this argument, 
especially without providing the prospects assessment alongside it, doesnt persuade me the 
legal advice was wrong and that Amtrust shouldnt have relied on it. 
But even if I agreed there was an issue with the legal advice provided, Amtrust was clear it 
would require a Barristers opinion confirming the legal claim had prospects of success if     
Mr C wanted it to reconsider the claim. So, it seems whether Mr C wanted to challenge the 
prospects of success assessment because he deemed the legal advice wrong or simply 
wanted a second opinion, he was required by Amtrust to provide an independent Barristers 
prospects of success assessment to challenge it. I think that was reasonable because the solicitors assessment that the claim no longer had reasonable prospects was prompted by a 
re-evaluation of the case following advice from a Barrister on how the evidence should be 
considered.
I havent been provided with evidence which shows Mr C obtained a Barristers opinion that 
supported his position. So, based on the information I do have, Im satisfied Amtrust did what 
could be reasonably expected of it in the circumstances, and I consider its decision to 
withdraw cover to be fair and in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman