DRN-4362255
The complaint
Mr P has complained Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont refund £8,900 for 
disputed cash withdrawals.
What happened
Mr P opened a new account with Virgin Money in February 2023. A £5,000 loan from a credit 
provider (who Ill call V) was paid in along with £6,000 from another bank account (with S) 
that Mr P holds.
Mr P phoned Virgin Money twice on 6 and 8 February as hed not received his card and PIN. 
Five withdrawals were made at two different branches over six days amounting to £8,600. 
Three cash machine withdrawals were then made on 14 February totalling £300. 
Mr P complained to Virgin Money that hed not made these transactions. Virgin Money 
investigated but wouldnt refund Mr P.
Mr Ps representative brought his complaint to our service and said Virgin Money had also 
registered a fraud marker on the industry fraud database, CIFAS, stating that Mr P had 
misused the facility.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He confirmed the person within branch making cash 
withdrawals wasnt Mr P, however he felt that Mr P had authorised these withdrawals. He 
noted that Mr P didnt log into his new account at all during the period of the disputed 
withdrawals but coincidentally logged in within an hour of the final blocked cash machine 
withdrawal.
Mr Ps representative confirmed an ombudsman decision was required. Mr P didnt 
understand how Virgin Money wouldnt have requested additional ID to ensure that cash 
withdrawals in branch were properly conducted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ps complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Virgin Money provided as well as 
what Mr P has told us. 
I dont believe these transactions were carried out by anyone else without Mr Ps 
authorisation. I say this because:
Mr Ps card and PIN were sent out separately on 2 February. Its unlikely both 
envelopes would have been delayed or intercepted separately. Im aware that Mr P 
has told us his mailbox could be accessed but noting Mr Ps address, hes not on any 
major thoroughfare.
Im aware of issues around the loan from Vanquis which Virgin Money told us was 
taken out using fraudulent information although I note Mr P denies this. Hes 
continued to make payments towards the loan which he took out for home 
improvements. 
Our service has been provided with CCTV images. I believe these show the person 
making the cash withdrawals in two different Virgin Money branches between 9 and 
14 February was not Mr P. However that alone wouldnt mean this was nothing to do 
with him.
Virgin Money has procedures for cash withdrawals in branch. These means that 
withdrawals under £2,000 do not require additional ID other than card and PIN. This 
was present for all five withdrawals. All withdrawals were coincidentally for amounts 
under £2,000.
An unknown third-party would not have risked going into two branches over six days 
making small withdrawals. This allows more than enough time for Mr P in normal 
circumstances to have logged onto his account and noticing these.
Mr P didnt log into his account once during the period of the cash withdrawals. 
However after the last attempted cash machine withdrawal at 15:56 on 14 February, 
which was blocked due to insufficient funds, Mr P logged onto his account 41 
minutes later.
At no stage was any account balance checked by the person holding Mr Ps card and 
PIN. Id have to wonder how they were confident enough to know that there were 
sufficient funds in Mr Ps account to allow withdrawals of nearly £9,000.
Im aware Mr P believes the CIFAS marker was placed by Virgin Money. Virgin 
Money has confirmed theyve not put a CIFAS marker on Mr Ps record so I believe 
any CIFAS marker related to Mr P was put there by another institution.
Overall Im satisfied theres sufficient evidence to show Mr P authorised these transactions. I 
wont be asking Virgin Money to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman