DRN-1829843
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd wouldnt raise a chargeback on his behalf.
What happened
Early in 2020, Mr M discovered that an online merchant hed been dealing with wasnt 
licensed to trade with consumers located within Great Britain. Ill call this merchant P. Mr M 
had made a number of payments to P and wanted these refunded. He raised his concerns 
with the relevant regulator, which recommended using chargeback to recover the money. Mr 
M contacted Revolut, but they said that chargeback wouldnt be appropriate because the 
issue was a regulatory one.
At the same time, Mr M had been trying to resolve things directly with the merchant, who 
sent him an email saying that it would refund his initial deposits. The email said that P had 
issued the refund to Mr Ms card and that it would take up to ten business days to show in 
his account. But the refund didnt materialise, so Mr M approached Revolut again and asked 
them to raise a chargeback on this basis.
  
Revolut asked Mr M to provide a receipt confirming the refund. They said it needed to show 
certain specific details. Alternatively, they asked for proof that Mr Ms account with P was in 
credit by the amount being claimed at the point of closure. Mr M wasnt able to provide this 
information as P had stopped corresponding with him by that point. Revolut said the 
chargeback attempt would be rejected by the card scheme without it and that the email 
evidence wasnt enough on its own. So they said they couldnt take the chargeback forward.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and asked this service to look into it. Our investigator thought 
Revoluts approach was reasonable. But Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He says that P wasnt licensed to transact with him and 
breached UK legislation by advertising its services, making its transactions with him illegal. 
He says that Ps digital content wasnt as described. And he says that the email confirming 
the refund should be enough for Revolut to raise the chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to start by summarising what chargeback is and how it works. Its a process 
for resolving disputes between card issuers (here, Revolut) and merchants (here, P). The 
chargeback scheme is a voluntary code which card issuers can sign up to. Its run by the 
card scheme (that is, the business which runs the payment network)  not Revolut. And 
chargeback claims are processed and decided based on the card schemes rules.
Customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and Revolut dont have to attempt it 
just because a customer asks them to. But Id expect them to try if theres good reason to do 
so. When considering a chargeback request, Revolut are bound by the rules of the card 
scheme. They arent obliged to submit a claim if they dont think the case fits within the rules, 
or if they think the claim is unlikely to be successful. Each case depends on the individual 
circumstances. What I need to decide here is whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in 
relation to Mr Ms chargeback request.
The card schemes rules contain numerous reason codes, under which claims can be 
submitted. The reason codes Mr M has referred to here are misrepresentation and 
services not as described. Each reason code has criteria which must be met in order for 
the claim to be accepted by the card scheme. These include examples of the types of 
dispute covered by the code, details of disputes which will be considered invalid, conditions 
to be met before a claim is submitted and details of the specific evidence required to support 
a claim.
Ive considered the fact that P wasnt licensed to transact with Mr M. There isnt a 
chargeback code which specifically covers this scenario. And I dont find that Mr Ms dispute 
points fit within the reason codes of misrepresentation or services not as described. Im 
satisfied that Revolut considered Mr Ms request for a chargeback based on Ps lack of 
regulation. But I think their conclusion that a claim on that basis wouldnt succeed was 
reasonable. So I dont think they were obliged to submit a claim on this basis.
Mr Ms second request for a chargeback was based on the email saying that P would give 
him a refund. Revolut considered pursuing a chargeback under the reason code credit not 
processed. But they say Mr M couldnt provide the information which is necessary to put 
forward a claim on this basis. Having considered the card schemes rules, I dont think the 
claim would have succeeded based on the email alone. Thats because the rules are specific 
about the type of receipt needed as evidence here and I dont find that the email meets 
these requirements. For this reason, I think Revoluts conclusion that the claim was unlikely 
to succeed was reasonable. But Revolut said they could try disputing the transactions if Mr 
M could prove that his account with P was in credit at the time it was closed. 
I understand that P had stopped communicating with Mr M, so he had no way of obtaining a 
receipt or any other information needed for the chargeback. But Im not looking here at the 
actions of P. Im only looking at the way in which Revolut dealt with the chargeback request. 
Ive considered all Mr Ms comments and I know he feels strongly about this. But he didnt 
have the evidence needed for a claim under the code credit not processed. And the facts of 
his case didnt fit within the other reason codes. Im satisfied that Revolut gave Mr Ms 
requests due consideration. But I think it was reasonable for them to conclude that a 
chargeback attempt was unlikely to succeed. So I think their decision not to raise a 
chargeback was fair.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr M. But, for the reasons above, I dont think Revolut 
have done anything wrong here. So Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman