DRN-3790874
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) when she attempted to transfer funds from her account.
What happened
Mrs D was planning to move a large sum from her account with Halifax to an account in her 
own name elsewhere.
Mrs D tells us that on 22 August 2022 she called Halifax and it was explained that she could 
transfer up to £10,000 over the phone and up to £25,000 online. The Halifax representative 
Mrs D spoke to transferred £1 to the account Mrs D was planning to send the larger sum to 
as a test payment.
On 23 August 2022 Mrs D attempted to make the larger payment online but it was not 
successful, so she called Halifax and was asked various questions. Mrs D was then advised 
she would have to take her passport to a local branch. The Halifax representative told Mrs D 
an appointment at the branch was not required.
On the same day Mrs D visited her local branch with her passport. The Halifax branch 
representative had to make an internal call. Mrs D was asked several identification questions 
and to provide a passcode that she was unable to give.
Eventually the payment Mrs D was attempting to make was completed.
Halifax doesnt dispute the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint. It says that a block was 
placed on Mrs Ds account due to fraud prevention measures and the request for Mrs D to 
visit a branch was a standard part of its processes. Although Halifax agreed that the time 
Mrs D spent on the phone and in branch to resolve the issue was excessive. So, Halifax 
offered Mrs D £100 compensation to resolve her complaint which Mrs D has explained she 
does not feel is sufficient.
One of our Investigators considered Mrs Ds complaint but thought the compensation Halifax 
had offered was fair. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She explained that she had several physical ailments, and it was not 
reasonable for Halifax to cause her the level of inconvenience it had.  
As Mrs D didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above Halifax explained that the request for Mrs D to visit a branch with her 
passport was a standard request when a fraud block is placed on an account. Its not for our 
service to decide what fraud prevention methods a business should implement.
Its not unusual to see a banks fraud prevention methods triggered when a request for a 
large sum to be transferred is requested, and as a result a temporary block to be applied to 
the account until further checks can be carried out. So overall, I dont think the actions taken 
by Halifax were unreasonable.
However, Mrs D spent longer on the phone than she should have had to when attempting to 
arrange the transfer, and her visit to her local branch could have taken less time if she was 
given the option of making an appointment.
The purpose of this service is not to punish the business for the errors it makes, but instead 
to put customers back in the position they would have been in had the error not been made. 
Halifax have offered Mrs D £100 compensation for the overall service she received, and I 
think this offer is reasonable.
I understand Mrs D had several physical ailments that meant the situation had a greater 
impact than it should have but Mrs D did not ask Halifax to make any allowances for her to 
make the situation easier, and while in the local branch she was able to find a place to sit 
when she became uncomfortable. So, I dont think this means Halifax should increase the 
compensation it has offered her. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mrs D the £100 it 
has offered if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman