DRN-3648432
Complaint
Mr S has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says that his circumstances werent adequately assessed and 
this led to him being provided with unaffordable loans.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr S with a first loan for £2,500.00 in November 2017. This 
loan had an APR of 127.1% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £5,180.88, including interest of £2,680.88, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of just over £215. 
Everyday Loans then provided Mr S with a second loan for £3,300.00 in August 2018. This 
loan had an APR of 88.2% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £5,975.76, including interest of £2,675.76, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of just under £250. £2,072.73 of the proceeds of loan 2 were used to settle the 
remaining balance on loan 1.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr S complaint and he thought Everyday Loans didnt do 
anything wrong when providing loan 1. But he also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr S with loan 2. So he thought that Mr S complaint 
should be partially upheld. 
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment but Everyday Loans disagreed with 
the outcome on loan 2. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
As the parties appear to be in agreement with the outcome reached for loan 1, this decision 
on only looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Mr S with loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. Having carefully 
considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why in a little more 
detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 2 was provided. The results of which showed that Mr S already had a significant 
amount of existing debt with high cost lenders. Furthermore, the bank statements Everyday 
Loans obtained showed that Mr S was relying on friends, family and a high cost lender to 
avoid going overdrawn. 
Mr S might not have been overdrawn but thats because his bank wasnt prepared to provide 
him with an overdraft not because his finances were in great shape. And the statements do 
show that Everyday Loans appear to have been aware of what I suspect is the reason for Mr 
S existing difficulties given the transactions were circled.
And while theres some suggestion this loan might have been for debt consolidation, the 
amount didnt correspond to what Mr S owed. Indeed, Im particularly concerned that there 
were accounts not included in Mr S expenditure, going forwards, even though the funds 
being advanced werent enough to clear the balances owing. 
Its therefore unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially 
how this was going to improve Mr S financial position  especially bearing in mind Mr S was 
supposedly borrowing for consolidation purposes eight months after he was supposed to 
have cleared what he owed with the proceeds of loan 1. Im also mindful that Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr S living expenses. This is despite 
the fact that his credit file showed he didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr S has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr S previous credit difficulties reflected 
his choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr S version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr S existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And 
Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have shown 
Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr S. As Everyday Loans provided 
Mr S with loan 2, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards him. 
Mr S ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr S lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr S by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr S paid on loan 2;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr S to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of loan 2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman