DRN-3178420
The complaint
Mr P complains Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (Website) for concert tickets.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr P bought four tickets for a concert in June 2018 using his credit card 
with Creation. In total, he paid £599.95.
Mr P says he wasnt given information on the face value of the tickets (which he later found 
out were £60 each), the location of the seats and that he wasnt provided information about 
whether there were any restrictions with the seating. Mr P says he also felt the Website were 
in breach of consumer regulation as they hadnt made clear they were a secondary ticketing 
site.
Creation looked into Mr Ps concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They thought 
there wasnt a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as they 
said the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement wasnt in place. Creation also said 
they didnt feel they had grounds to raise a chargeback claim because they didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success - they explained the Website was a platform used by 
individuals to sell tickets, so it was the seller who sets the price of the tickets.
Unhappy with Creations response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator looked into his concerns. Ultimately, he didnt think Creation had acted unfairly 
by declining Mr Ps request for a refund. He said Mr P had entered his card details on the 
Website when purchasing the tickets, therefore, hed authorised the transaction. Our 
Investigator said he thought there was sufficient information on the Website to show it was a 
secondary ticketing site. And that the Website made clear how much Mr P would be charged 
in total for the tickets and provided information on the location of the tickets. So, he didnt 
think there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the Website. Overall, our 
Investigator didnt think Creation needed to do anything else.
Mr P disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he remained of the opinion that 
the Website didnt have enough information to show they were a ticket reseller, he wasnt 
provided with information about the specific seat location and the Website provided 
misleading information about the availability and popularity of the tickets. Mr P also said 
while he was provided with the tickets two days before the event took place, this didnt give 
him enough time to resell them. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr P has some concerns about the Website and how it operates. But I must make 
clear that this complaint is about Creation, as Mr Ps credit card account provider. The 
Website isnt a financial service provider and as it doesnt fall within my remit, Im unable to 
look at a complaint against them directly. I can only consider whether Mr P authorised 
Creation to debit his account with the value of the payment, and whether Creation should 
have helped with the dispute with the Website in any other way. Creation can only be 
responsible here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially 
impacted Mr Ps decisions. This is a different test to whether or not the Website concerned 
could be better or could have made things clearer.
Mr P says he made the transaction for these tickets, knew the amount he was paying and 
was willing to purchase the tickets at that price. But Mr P says the Website didnt provide any 
information on the true face value of the tickets  he later found out that the cost of the 
tickets were £60 each. Mr P doesnt argue he didnt go to the website and buy the tickets on 
his credit card. So, having considered what Mr P has said (including that he made this 
purchase and paid for the tickets) and the evidence of Creation, Im satisfied the transaction 
was properly authorised and correctly applied to Mr Ps credit card account with Creation.
could Creation challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr P does 
here, Creation (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for a 
card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres a reasonable 
prospect of success, for example where goods arent received, or it appears that the 
payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder. 
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where chargeback has 
been successful. But I dont think Creation couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr 
P didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusion Ive already set out.
I note Mr P complains he didnt pay face value for the tickets. Creation didnt raise a 
chargeback here because it didnt think this would have had a reasonable prospect of 
success  they said its the seller who sets the price of the tickets. Having thought about this, 
I dont think Creation have done anything wrong. I say this because I dont think theres a 
reason code Creation could have used under the chargeback scheme rules to get Mr Ps 
money back on the basis that he was being charged more than a tickets face value. As Ive 
explained, Mr P authorised the transaction and agreed to pay for the tickets. Bearing in mind 
Mr P authorised the transaction and received the tickets, Creations decision that there 
wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in a chargeback is fair and reasonable in my 
opinion. So, Im not persuaded they acted unfairly.
In addition to this, Mr P says the Website didnt make clear it was a secondary ticketing site 
and they misrepresented their status as a ticket reseller. Having looked into the Website and 
their terms and conditions, Im not persuaded this information was misrepresented to Mr P. I 
say this because I think there are prominent messages on the Website which explain that 
they are a secondary ticketing site.
Creation are required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. Bearing in mind Mr P 
says he wanted to buy the tickets, authorised the transaction and got the tickets, Creations 
decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in a chargeback is fair and 
reasonable in my opinion. So, Im not persuaded Creation acted unfairly here.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit card, I have also taken into account how Section 
75 applies to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mr P has an equal right to claim against Creation as he does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (the Website) if certain conditions are met. 
My role isnt to decide Creations liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires me 
to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such as 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a 
debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms and conditions in this 
case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers. 
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website 
provides a service. And for this they charge buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website 
says they: 
charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service. 
So, unlike Creations response to Mr Ps Section 75 claim, I think there is a debtor-creditor-
supplier arrangement between Mr P who is the debtor, Creation who is the creditor and the 
Website who is the provider - although not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. 
Instead, the Website provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the 
platform and the guarantee.
With this in mind, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as 
venue, date, time, and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the 
guarantee, theyre responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller 
doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets. However, the Website are a 
secondary ticket selling website. This means the tickets are purchased through the Website 
from a third-party seller (who isnt representing the Website).
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100 but less than £30,000. In this 
case, Ive seen a breakdown of the amount Mr P paid. And I can see he paid a total of 
£599.95 for the four tickets. Looking at the order confirmation provided by the Website, the 
total ticket cost came to £440. The Website then charged a booking and VAT fee (£152) and 
shipping fees (£8). The total of these fees comes to £160. So, Im satisfied that the 
Websites fees for their services in this case was more than £100 but less than £30,000. This 
means I think Mr P could have a valid claim under Section 75.
So, Ive established that the necessary arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75 
about the service the Website provided, and that the cash price of that service is sufficient 
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
For a successful claim Mr P would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website. Mr P has complained he didnt pay face value for the tickets. I appreciate Mr 
Ps concerns; however, Im not persuaded there is a misrepresentation here. I say this 
because Mr P knew the price he was paying for the tickets at the time and went through the 
purchase process to get them. Im not persuaded hes been told anything untrue which 
materially persuaded him to buy the tickets he otherwise wouldnt have. Additionally, Mr P received the tickets, but chose not to attend the event. The Website does provide a 
guarantee here so if hed tried to get in and couldnt, he would not have lost out. With this in 
mind, Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract either. In any case, its the 
seller which sets the price of the tickets, not the Website. This means the difference between 
the face value of each ticket, and what Mr P paid for each ticket, went to the seller, not the 
Website.
I understand Mr P chose not to go to the concert and that he was unable to resell the tickets 
due to the short time frame. While I understand Mr Ps concerns, I dont think theres been a 
breach of contract here as Mr P still received the tickets.
 
Mr P argues that the Website didnt make clear it was a secondary ticketing site and that 
they misrepresented their status as a reseller and not a direct seller. Having looked into the 
Website and their terms and conditions, Im not persuaded this information was 
misrepresented to Mr P. I say this because I think there are prominent messages on the 
Website which explain that theyre a secondary ticketing site. Even though they had alerts 
letting customers know that tickets were selling out fast, I dont think this indicates theyre the 
direct seller of the tickets as Mr P suggests.
Mr P says he also wasnt given specific seat details and restricted view information at the 
time he purchased the tickets. Even though Mr P may not have been given all of the 
information about the seats to be able to make an informed decision about the tickets, I dont 
think Mr P was necessarily told anything that was untrue. Ive not seen any evidence which 
shows Mr P didnt get the tickets that he paid for and selected at the time. Mr P has also 
mentioned the tickets he received werent in the location he ordered. Having looked at a 
seating plan of the venue alongside a copy of the tickets Mr P sent us, the location appears 
to be the same as what Mr P ordered  although I appreciate the location has a different 
name. With all of this in mind, I dont think the tickets have been misrepresented to Mr P. Nor 
do I think theres been a breach of contract.
was there anything else within the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that Creation should have 
considered? 
Even though Ive made the finding that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I 
think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
In summary, Section 56 has the effect of making the Website the agent of Creation during 
the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr P entering into a transaction with them. So, 
essentially, this means Creation are responsible for the acts or omissions of the Website and 
what was said or done before the transaction was entered in to and conducted by the 
Website, in other words, Creation have to stand behind the things the Website said, did, 
didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process. 
For a valid claim under Section 56, there has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place - which is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However, unlike 
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the 
impact of Section 56 and whether Creation ought to have considered this in Mr Ps case.
So, Ive gone on to think about whether the Website misrepresented the information, or the 
tickets Mr P purchased. As previously explained, from the evidence I have, I can see the 
total price is displayed on the final page before Mr P would have been asked to enter his 
card details. With this in mind, I think its more likely than not Mr P would have been made 
aware of the total cost of the tickets  even though this cost may have been different to the 
face value of the tickets. Nor have I have seen any evidence which shows they misrepresented the seat location. Having thought about this carefully, Im not persuaded the 
Website misrepresented the tickets to Mr P.
Also, as Ive previously explained, I think the Website and its terms and conditions made 
clear that they were a ticket reselling site. And I dont think this information was 
misrepresented to Mr P.
In summary, while I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P, I think he 
authorised Creation to debit his credit card account with the value of the transaction to the 
Website, so I think it was fair for them to do that. I also think that there is the appropriate 
relationship for a Section 75 claim, and I think it does meet the financial limits. So, I dont 
think it was right for Creation to not consider Mr Ps Section 75 claim for the reasons they 
gave. Although, had Creation done so, and had they considered Mr Ps claim under Section 
56, I dont think they would have acted unfairly by declining Mr Ps claim for reasons Ive 
already explained. So, I dont think Creation need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman