DRN-3143509
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc caused him distress and inconvenience by the way it 
dealt with a large transfer he made from another bank.
What happened
Mr D transferred £103,000 from an account with another bank to his Santander account. He 
was told the funds would be with Santander on the same day. He checked his Santander 
account and saw the funds had been received. However, when he looked at his account 
around 30 minutes later the funds were no longer there. Mr D called Santander and was told 
the funds couldnt be located and no funds had come into the account. Mr D then made 
further calls to Santander and the sending bank to try to locate the funds and get information 
for a trace to take place and to raise a complaint.
On 18 February, Mr D was contacted by Santander and it said that the payment had been 
removed by the screening team for fraud checks and it was confirmed that the money would 
be in his account that day.
Mr D says this experience caused him a great deal of stress as Santander couldnt tell him 
where his money was, and he was worried it had been stolen. 
Santander said it had a right to determine its own internal process and that it has a legal 
obligation to conduct certain checks on unusual payments. It said it did nothing wrong 
regarding the transfer to Mr Ds account. It said there was no obligation for it to tell Mr D 
about the checks and the funds were released back to Mr Ds account the following day after 
the checks had been completed. It accepted that Mr D was provided with incorrect 
information when he made calls to Santander about this issue and it noted the worry he had 
been caused. It paid him £300 compensation because of this.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. He wanted this service to raise the process issue 
with Santander, that is that funds being removed should leave an audit trail on the account 
notes and that he should have been told that the money was being removed. He further 
asked how long he would have needed to wait for the funds to be returned had he not raised 
the issue and whether the compensation he had received was reasonable.
Our investigator said that while Mr D hadnt been provided with the answers he wanted when 
he contacted Santander about his money, Santander had tried to help him. She noted that 
Mr D was contacted the day after the transfer and was told the reasons for the funds being 
removed and that they would be credited to his account that day. She thought Santander 
had acted in line with the terms of the account. She noted Mr Ds comments about 
Santanders internal process but said this wasnt something we could look into. She 
understood the trouble, upset and stress Mr D had been caused and thought he £300 paid 
by Santander was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was understandably concerned after he transferred a large amount of money to his 
account and after a brief appearance in his account it was removed. He then experienced 
further upset as when he contacted Santander about the issue they were unable to locate 
the funds and couldnt give him any comfort about where his money was. 
While I understand how upsetting and stressful this must have been for Mr D, Santander has 
certain legal and regulatory requirements to meet and it has explained that in this case 
further checks were undertaken on the transaction. I note Mr Ds comment about the 
process of these checks and the audit trail, but my role isnt generally to comment on a 
banks internal processes other than to consider whether the actions it took were reasonable 
and whether Mr D was treated fairly.
In this case I do not find I can say the Santander did anything wrong by following its usual 
process in undertaking further checks on the transaction. I accept that it isnt required to tell 
Mr D about these checks and while I appreciate that this caused Mr D stress and anxiety I 
do not find it treated him unfairly in this process. 
Mr D has asked how long it would have taken for his money to arrive in his account had he 
not chased this. Santander has confirmed that the time taken to return Mr Ds funds wasnt 
influenced by Mr Ds contact and that the return of the funds took place as soon as the 
checks had been completed.
Mr D made several calls to try to locate his money and contacted the sending bank to gather 
further information to assist with this. This caused him stress and inconvenience. Santander 
paid Mr D a total of £300 compensation because of this.
I understand that Mr D isnt satisfied with the resolution provided, but as I cannot say that 
Santander did anything wrong by carrying out the additional checks and the money was in 
Mr D's account the day after it was transferred, I am only considering compensation in 
regard to the upset that Mr D was caused while trying to deal with the issue. I appreciate this 
was a very distressing period and the people he spoke to werent able to provide him with 
details as to where his money was, but as the money was released to Mr Ds account as 
soon as the checks were completed (the day after the transfer) and an explanation was then 
provided along with an apology for any inconvenience, I think the £300 paid by Santander is 
reasonable in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to do anything further in regard to 
this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman