DRN-3317572
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer 
out of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).
What happened
In 1994 Mr S transferred his OPS into a policy with a firm called Tomorrow (before that 
known as National Mutual Pensions). 
In 2007 ReAssure took over the book of business from Tomorrow  its records show that Mr 
S had already terminated his plan before the acquisition. It therefore only had a skeleton 
record of his policy as it no longer existed.
More recently through a representative, Mr S complained that he had been given bad advice 
to transfer his OPS  and that ReAssure was responsible. Mr S also couldnt recall ever 
being a part of the Pension Review.
ReAssure responded to say it hadnt sold the policy to Mr S and because it had been 
terminated before ReAssure took over Tomorrow, it unfortunately didnt have any records 
about the sale.
ReAssure sent us the information it had showing Mr S details on its system which were 
brief. But it also was able to send us evidence that Tomorrow didnt provide advice on this 
product. And its advised sales should only be done through an Independent Financial 
adviser. We shared this with Mr S representatives. It said it would try and get more 
information from the OPS trustees. But this was unsuccessful.
Our investigator said that as ReAssure hadnt sold the policy, he couldnt look into matters 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Due to the circumstances here, such as the policy being terminated before the acquisition, 
there is very little evidence to go on. But I am persuaded that ReAssure likely didnt sell this 
policy. I say this because of evidence it has provided about how these policies were sold 
prior to its acquisition of Tomorrow.
If Mr S was advised, his policy shouldve been part of the Pension Review but hes said he 
has no recollection of this. ReAssure has said his policy was terminated sometime between 
1994 and 2007, if Mr S knows what happened then, for example if he transferred it 
elsewhere, he could contact the new provider for information. Its possible the same adviser 
may have advised Mr S on both transfers for example.
With regard to his complaint against ReAssure, the evidence doesnt support that it is 
responsible for the sale. And it would be the firm responsible for the sale that would need to 
answer any questions and potentially pay compensation if the advice was deemed 
unsuitable. Im afraid the evidence available isnt sufficient to give Mr S a steer about who is 
responsible.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman