DRN-3211498
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K complain that Covea Insurance plc has failed to pay a full settlement in
respect of their home insurance claim for theft and damage following a burglary. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr A and Mrs K suffered a burglary at their property. The patio doors were
broken into, and some carpets and beds and chests of drawers damaged. The items stolen
were mostly jewellery. Covea assessed the claim and accepted it. However it said that Mr A
and Mrs K had only insured their contents at 79.1% of their value. Covea said it would only
pay that proportion of their claim. Mr A and Mrs K disputed that their contents were
underinsured but werent able to produce evidence of this to Coveas satisfaction.
Covea assessed the value of the jewellery stolen, and, in respect of the items proved to its
satisfaction, offered a proportionate payment of £18,256.12. In respect of the carpets and
furniture it offered again a proportionate payment of £4,684.62. I understand these payments
have been made. Mr A provided a quote for the damaged bath and for the bath panel but
Covea said only the panel needed replacing. It said Mr As quotes were too high, and asked
him for a further quote. Covea responded to Mr As complaint that its claims handler had
offered him the wrong settlement which later had to be withdrawn. For this it agreed to pay
compensation of £100.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Covea had acted reasonably and had
made reasonable offers in respect of the lost jewellery and damaged furniture and carpets.
Mr A and Mrs K disagreed, pointing out that Covea hadnt even paid 79.1 % of the value
claimed for the carpets alone and hadnt paid for two jewellery items and some clothing.
Covea said the items were included in the loss list but if Mr A had further evidence it would
be willing to consider this.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Covea should pay a further proportionate 
settlement in respect of the assessed figure to restore or repair the furniture and carpets 
items which were not deemed to be BER. I further said that Id not seen sufficient evidence 
that Covea had paid for the two jewellery items. And it should, on Mr A and Mrs K providing 
further evidence of value, consider a settlement in respect of the bath panel and the clothing. 
And it should pay a further £100 compensation.
In response Covea said it had paid for the two items of jewellery, which were on the 
spreadsheet setting out a breakdown of the payments it was prepared to make for the 
jewellery. It was prepared to offer £500 for the cleaning/repair costs and £450 (including 
installation costs) for the bath panel. For the clothing it would need to see evidence of 
purchase.
Mr A said they hadnt seen the spreadsheet referred to.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
underinsurance
Covea has assessed that Mr A and Mrs K were underinsured  they had only insured their
contents at 79.1% of their value. I can see that Coveas loss adjusters did a full valuation of
the contents items. Mr A and Mrs K had insured their contents for £80,000 but the valuation
came out at over £100,000. The jewellery was valued by an independent specialist. And
whilst Mr A and Mrs K continued to dispute this, I havent seen any evidence of valuation
that would prove that Covea was wrong in this respect. The terms of the policy allow Covea
to pay a proportionate amount of the claim where there is underinsurance and I think Covea
applied this fairly.
valuation of jewellery
Covea has, as Ive said, paid £18,256.12 in respect of the stolen jewellery. This doesnt
represent 79.1% of the jewellery items stolen. Rather it reflects the value of the items for
which sufficient evidence of ownership and value has been provided. I note that Mr A and
Mrs K had jewellers who provided different valuations but regrettably those jewellers werent
able to co-operate with Coveas jewellers. So I think the price paid for the stolen jewellery
was reasonable. Covea hasnt paid any VAT though will do so if actual replacements are
purchased, and a VAT receipt is provided by Mr A and Mrs K. I think thats also reasonable.
Mr A has provided invoices for two items in the sum of £1,370 and £1,150 respectively. He
says Covea hasnt included those items. Despite Covea saying it would review this with its
jewellers, Ive seen no confirmation that those items were included in the settlement. As
Mr A has provided sufficient proof of the items, Covea should pay 79.1% of their value, that
is £1,993.32.
carpets and furniture
Mr A has pointed out that his quote for the damaged carpets amounted to £10,499.38 and
79.1% of this is £8,305.01, substantially more than the amount paid.
Ive reviewed how Covea reached this figure. The only evidence for this from its file notes is
the following, following a report from assessors:
They have advised some of the items can be restored - round bed / double bed / lounge
carpet / dining room carpet / 2nd lounge carpet.
Some items are BER [Beyond economic repair] - coffee table / 1 x set of 6 drawers / 1 x set
of 2 drawer / HSL / 5 bedrooms carpets. [Assessors] have quoted £5,966.68 for the
replacements. No quote for the restoration and cleaning.
So it appears to me that Covea still needs to pay a settlement for the items deemed able to
be restored and/or cleaned. It should pay 79.1% of the assessed costs in this respect.
Alternatively if Mr A and Mrs K are able to provide evidence that any of those items were in
fact BER I would invite them to provide evidence of this in response to this provisional
decision.
bathroom and items of clothing
Mr A has provided a quote for a replacement bath, and for the replacement of the panel.Covea said the quotes were excessive and asked for a revised quote just to replace the bath
panel. This has so far not been provided. If Mr A wants to provide that quote in response to
this provisional decision I would ask him to do so, and Covea should reconsider this.
Alternatively Covea should pay the proportionate amount it assesses as reasonable for the
bath panel.
In respect of the clothing Mr A and Mrs K should provide the relevant quotes and Covea
should consider these.
delay
Having considered a timeline of events I dont think that Covea was responsible for the
delays in reaching a settlement. Some of this was out of its control, whilst waiting for third
parties. Also the loss list took some time to be agreed. And there was a delay in Mr As and
Mrs Ks jewellers responding to requests for meetings, which they failed to attend.
Essentially settlement was agreed by Covea by April 2020, albeit there were still quotes
Covea had asked Mr A to provide.
compensation
I dont think that Covea fully considered Mr A and Mrs Ks items, particularly the cost of the
carpets and furniture, and this would have added to the stress caused to Mr A and Mrs K.
I think it should pay a further £100 compensation. 
Covea has shown us the spreadsheet it referred to in asserting that it had paid for the two 
jewellery items in question. Having reviewed that spreadsheet, Im satisfied that the items 
were included in the settlement for the jewellery. 
With regard to the restoration/repair figure of £500, and the £450 for the cost/installation of 
the bath paneI, I think they are reasonable. Our investigator has advised Mr A and Mrs K 
accordingly.
Save as set out above, I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. These findings are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint in part and require Covea Insurance plc to:
pay £500 in respect of restoring or repairing the furniture and carpets items which were 
not deemed to be BER.
pay £450 for the bath panel, including installation.
on Mr A and Mrs K providing further evidence of value, consider a settlement in respect
the clothing.
pay a further £100 compensation. 
My final decisionUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman