DRN-3004614
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has unfairly recorded 
three missed payments on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B says he thought he agreed a payment holiday with Barclaycard in November 2020. He 
says he wouldnt have agreed to anything that would have affected his credit file and 
questions why Barclaycard cant obtain a copy the telephone call. Mr B says Barclaycard 
has recorded three months missed payments on his credit file despite him clearing the 
arrears in February 2021. He would like the adverse information removed from his credit file 
and says the information is affecting his mortgage application.
Barclaycard says it agreed an account freeze in November 2020 with Mr B, but he was still 
required to make his repayments. It says Mr B didnt make a payment in December 2020 
and so reported this information as required to do so to the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs). Barclaycard says it then agreed a repayment plan with Mr B in early January 2021 
that required Mr B to make two payments in February and March 2021 and said it would 
report the account position to the CRAs. It says Mr B didnt make the first required payment 
and so the repayment plan wasnt implemented which meant the CRAs were told that there 
were missed payments in January and February 2021. Barclaycard says it did agree a 
payment holiday from May to October 2020.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the arrangement in November 2020 was an account fee freeze and not a payment 
holiday and that Mr B had been told that. The investigator thought that as Mr B didnt make a 
required payment in December 2020 that Barclaycard was correct to report that to the 
CRAs. The investigator thought an arrangement was set up in January 2021 that required 
two payments, but Mr B didnt make the first payment which meant the plan didnt start. And 
that as Mr B didnt make required payments that Barclaycard correctly told the CRAs what 
the position was.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says he paid the arrears on 23 February 2020 
and so didnt need to make the March 2021 payment. He says he was told to clear the 
balance but says that resulted in the failure of the agreement. Mr B says if the call was 
listened to then there would have been a different outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate Mr B says he thought Barclaycard agreed to a further payment holiday when he 
spoke to it in November 2020. But I have looked at the letter Barclaycard sent Mr B in 
November 2020 following that call. And Im satisfied that there is no reference to a payment 
holiday in it, but Barclaycard says it will not charge interest or fees for 30 days. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware from that letter that there wasnt a 
further payment holiday but a freezing of interest and fees and that he was required to make 
his monthly payment otherwise the CRAs would be updated with adverse information, as 
the letter explained.
I can see from Barclaycards records that Mr B contacted it on 9 December 2020 and that he 
was told there wasnt a payment holiday and that he was required to make a monthly 
payment. So, Im satisfied that Mr B was told on two occasions at least in a letter and in a 
call that there wasnt a payment holiday in place. And that he was required to make a 
monthly payment, even if he was under the impression that he had agreed a further payment 
holiday in an earlier call.
I dont think Mr B made a required payment in December 2020 and so I dont think 
Barclaycard made a mistake by reporting that missed payment to the CRAs. I dont think Mr 
B was misled and am satisfied the position was made clear to him in writing and in the 
December telephone call.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard agreed a repayment plan with Mr B in early January 2021. I 
can see that Barclaycard wrote to Mr B and made clear that for the reduced repayment plan 
to start that Mr B needed to make two payments of £100 on 1 February 2021 and 1 March 
2021. Im also satisfied that letter made clear that Barclaycard would report the account 
position accurately to the CRAs.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and Im satisfied Mr B didnt make a payment on 1 
February 2021 and that meant the repayment plan didnt start or could start. Im also 
satisfied that Mr B didnt make required payments for January 2021 or February 2021 by the 
required dates and so it follows I find that Barclaycard was entitled to accurately report these 
two missed payments to the CRAs. And I dont think it acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
doing so.
I dont think it matters that Mr B made a payment in late February 2021 that may have 
cleared his arrears, as by that point he had missed three months payments and had missed 
the first £100 payment for the intended repayment plan. I have made clear that Im satisfied 
that Barclaycard told Mr B that he needed to make two payments of £100 for the repayment 
plan to start and that Mr Bs failure to make the first payment resulted in its failure and not as 
he says due to what Barclaycard told him.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B didnt make required payments for three months and that 
Barclaycard is obliged to accurately report its customers account positions to the CRAs, 
which I find it did here. I dont think there ought to have been any confusion on Mr Bs part 
about what was agreed as Im satisfied Barclaycard wrote to him, told him to make required 
payments and advised him that it would report his account status to the CRAs. For those 
reasons I cant fairly order Barclaycard to remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit 
file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
David SinghOmbudsman