DRN-2724429
The complaint
Mr T complains that JAJA FINANCE LTD reopened a closed credit card account.
What happened
Mr T says he held a credit card account with a different business that he paid off and closed 
in December 2019. He says he noticed about a year later that an account with JAJA was 
reported on his credit file and asked it to investigate. Mr T says JAJA paid him £40 but 
credited that compensation to the closed account. He would like a full investigation and says 
JAJAs actions were illegal. Mr T would also like JAJA to pay further compensation.
JAJA accepts that Mr Ts account should not have been re-opened when it took over the 
running of credit cards from the business that originally opened the account. It has paid £40 
compensation and updated the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) as well as closing the 
account.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought JAJA had dealt fairly with it by 
paying a fair and reasonable compensation amount and by updating the CRAs. The 
investigator didnt think it our role to comment on JAJAs policies or procedure or how it paid 
the compensation and didnt think Mr T had suffered any loss as a result of what took place.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and in summary says there was a potential security issue that 
could have affected future credit applications. He says JAJA breached the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) and questions what would have happened if he hadnt checked his credit 
file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that JAJA made a mistake and I have no doubt Mr T spent some 
time trying to sort matters out and in explaining he had paid off and closed the credit card 
account in 2019. But Im satisfied that JAJA has apologised for what took place and has 
acted fairly by closing the account. Im also satisfied that JAJA has correctly updated the 
CRAs and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £40. I think 
that award reflects what took place and that Mr T didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of 
what took place.
I appreciate Mr T questions what would have happened if he hadnt noticed the mistake and 
how that may have affected future credit applications. But I have to consider what did take 
place and, for the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that there wasnt any impact over 
and above what I have explained to Mr T.
I also appreciate Mr T questions how JAJA paid him the compensation and says the CCA 
1974 was breached. I make clear to Mr T that we are not JAJAs regulator and so its not our 
role to tell it how it runs its business or how it pays compensation. And it would be for a court 
not us to decide if JAJA has breached the CCA 1974.
Overall, Im satisfied JAJA has dealt fairly with this complaint and so I cant fairly ask it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman