DRN-2799370
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the cash settlement Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) offered 
after he claimed under his appliance insurance policy for his broken coffee machine.
What happened
Mr Os appliance policy included cover for his coffee machine. The machine stopped working 
and, after numerous attempts to repair it, D&G decided it was beyond economical repair 
(BER). The coffee machine had been discontinued so D&G offered Mr O £499 as a cash 
settlement based on the cost of a similar model and specification. 
However, Mr O didnt think D&G had compared his machine with a similar alternative. He 
complained to D&G and asked it to cash settle based on the latest model of his coffee 
machine. D&G thought the model it offered was a fair match and refused to increase its 
offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. He looked at the coffee machine on which 
D&G had based its offer and he thought it was a similar specification to Mr Os original 
machine. Our investigator didnt think D&G needed to increase its offer.
Mr O didnt agree. He named what he thought were significant differences between his 
machine and the one D&G based its offer on, so he wanted D&G to increase its offer to 
cover the cost of the latest model. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
The key issue is that Mr O doesnt think D&Gs replacement or cash settlement offer was 
enough to replace his coffee machine on a like-for-like basis.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy to see what D&G shouldve done once it deemed the 
coffee machine BER:
Replacements
1. In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your 
product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same 
or similar make and technical specification.
2. If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement, we will give you vouchers instead. The 
vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer chosen by us) of a replacement 
product of the same or similar make and technical specification. The vouchers will also pay 
for the delivery.
3. All vouchers will be valid for 12 months from the date of issue. Voucher settlements will be 
sent to the last address you gave us. If vouchers are not available we will provide a cash 
equivalent.
Theres no dispute that Mr Os original machine is no longer available to buy, so D&G 
offered a replacement. Mr O declined the replacement because he didnt think it was a 
similar specification. D&G then offered a cash settlement based on the cost of a similar 
machine. Im satisfied that D&G made offers in line with the terms of the policy stated above, 
so Ive gone on to look at whether the offers were fair, paying particular attention to the 
differences Mr O mentioned.
Water capacity
Both Mr Os original machine and the one D&G offered had the same water capacity. The 
machine he asked for instead had a smaller water capacity. Im satisfied D&Gs offer 
matched the original capacity.
Bean capacity
All three machines have the same bean capacity, so Im satisfied D&G offered a suitable 
match here.
Materials
Mr O says his coffee machine was constructed mainly from stainless steel. The machine 
D&G offered was black plastic. The alternative Mr O asked for is made mainly from 
thermoplastic with some stainless-steel parts. Ive compared the three machines using the 
manufacturers website and other reputable online sources, and I can see that Mr Os 
original machine was plastic with a stainless-steel coating. I can understand that he wouldnt 
necessarily want to replace a silver-coloured with a black-coloured machine, but D&G also 
offered Mr O a cash settlement equivalent to the cost of the replacement, so he wouldve 
been able to buy one to suit his colour preference.
Theres nothing in the product specification for each of the three coffee machines which 
suggests that the one D&G offered is inferior to Mr Os original machine. The housing 
material is different leading to a difference of around 2kg in weight, which Mr O says 
demonstrates that his was stainless steel. But Im not persuaded that the stainless-steel 
coated machine is a higher specification than the thermoplastic one D&G offered. Indeed, 
Ive noted that both the machine Mr O asked for and the one D&G offered have a slightly 
superior specification than Mr Os original machine in terms of functions available. Therefore, 
I cant see that he wouldve lost out with D&Gs offer.
Overall, Im satisfied D&G made a fair offer to replace Mr Os coffee machine with one of a 
similar specification, or a cash settlement of equivalent value, in line with the terms of the 
policy. Therefore, I dont uphold his complaint and Im not asking D&G to change its 
replacement offer or increase its cash settlement offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Debra VaughanOmbudsman