DRN-4448910
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was irresponsible 
in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr B was provided with a loan from Tesco Bank in 2009 and then he re-borrowed up until 
2018 due to ongoing financial difficulties. He says he had a spiralling amount of debt with 
overdrafts, store cards and credit cards including two credit cards from Tesco Bank. He says 
that given the amount of debt he had Tesco Bank was irresponsible in its lending to him.
Tesco Bank noted that of the four loans and two credit cards only loan 4 and the second 
credit card were provided within six years of Mr B making his complaint. A jurisdiction 
decision was issued saying that we could consider the merits of this complaint in full.
Tesco Bank said that it had carried out reasonable checks before the lending was provided 
including considering Mr Bs previous repayment history. It said that these showed no 
suggestion that Mr B was struggling financially.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She noted that Tesco Bank had provided 
Mr B with four loans and two credit cards. She didnt think it unreasonable that loans 1 and 2 
had been lent but thought that reasonable checks would have shown that loans 3 and 4 
shouldnt have been provided. Regarding the credit cards, our investigator noted that the 
account opened in March 2017 was repaid in full the following month and so no interest and 
charges were applied so she didnt investigate this account further. In regard to the 2014 
credit card account, she didnt think that the evidence suggested that checks would have 
found this lending to have been unaffordable.
Mr B accepted our investigators view. Tesco Bank didnt agree that loans 3 and 4 were lent 
irresponsibly. It said that based on its checks Mr B had a fair disposable income left after 
meeting his financial commitments. It said that as Mr B was a long-standing customer it not 
only had the information from its affordability checks but also Mr Bs account history which 
showed he had managed his account well. It said that Mr Bs financial circumstances 
changed after the lending had been provided and that it couldnt have predicted this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules dont set out specific checks that a business must complete to assess 
creditworthiness. However, the firm should take into account the customers income (over 
the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. 
Whilst it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should 
be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length 
of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
Loans 1 to 3 were all provided more than six years before Mr B raised his complaint. A 
decision has been issued to say these are loans I can consider. But, given the time that has 
passed since these loans were provided, Tesco Bank hasnt been able to provide evidence 
of the checks it undertook before providing loans 1 and 2. I do not find this unreasonable. I 
have therefore considered these loans, based on the information Mr B has provided about 
his financial circumstances at the time and what I think reasonable checks would likely have 
shown.
Tesco Bank has provided results from the checks it undertook before providing loans 3 and 
4 and I have considered this. 
Loan 1: December 2009
Mr B was provided with a £7,500 loan in December 2009. The loan was repayable through 
monthly repayments of around £183. Before providing this loan, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Tesco Bank to have got a clear understanding of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances, specifically his income and expenses including his other credit commitments 
at the time. 
Mr B has provided copies of his bank statements from his joint account for the months 
leading up to this loan. These show he had an average monthly income of over £1,300 (and 
there was a second income being paid into the joint account). The monthly mortgage 
payments from the account were around £405 and other regular direct debit payments for 
costs such as utilities, council tax, insurances, credit commitments and other committed 
expenses were around £650. As the information provided is from a joint account and the 
additional income was a similar amount as Mr Bs monthly income I think it reasonable to 
assess the mortgage payments and other household expenses as being 50% attributable to 
Mr B. Based on the information I have seen, and noting this was Mr Bs first loan from Tesco 
Bank, I do not find I have enough to say that this loan with repayments of around £183, 
should have appeared unaffordable.
Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint in regard to loan 1. 
Loan 2: September 2012
Mr B was provided with a £7,793.67 loan in September 2012. The loan was repayable over 
48 months with monthly repayments of around £181. This loan was used in part to repay the 
outstanding balance on the previous loan and as it was for a similar amount and had similar 
monthly repayments, I find that as Mr B had maintained his repayments on the previous loan 
this gave a positive indicator that he would be able to maintain the repayments on this loan. 
However, as this loan meant that Mr Bs indebtedness was now for a longer period of time, 
Tesco Bank was required to carry out checks to ensure the lending was sustainably 
affordable over the loan term.
Having looked through Mr Bs statements for the months leading up to the loan his average 
monthly income was around £2,300 and there was a second income coming into the account 
averaging around £1,100. The account shows regular direct debits for the mortgage, other 
housing costs, utilities, insurances, credit commitments and other regular expenses such as 
food and travel totalling around £2,300. The statements also show that there are more 
payments being made to other credit commitments suggesting that a credit check would 
have shown Mr Bs indebtedness to have increased since the previous loan. That said, based on the information I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say that this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint in regard to loan 2. 
Loan 3: January 2015
Mr B was provided with a £10,000 loan in January 2015. The loan was repayable over 50 
months with 48 monthly repayments of around £245. This loan appears to have been used 
in part to repay the outstanding balance on the previous loan.
This was the second time that Mr B had repaid a previous loan with a new loan from Tesco 
Bank which could raise concerns about Mr Bs reliance on the debt. This loan was for a 
larger amount than loan 2 and the repayments were for a higher amount and so I find that 
Tesco Bank was required to carry out thorough checks to ensure that this new loan would be 
sustainably affordable over the loan term.
Tesco Bank has provided copies of the application information and credit check it undertook 
before providing loan 3. These record Mr Bs monthly income as £1,950, this is slightly 
higher than shown in Mr Bs bank statements which suggest his average monthly income 
was around £1,770. The credit report noted Mr Bs total unsecured debt as around £22,650 
of which around £10,600 was loans and the rest revolving credit balances. Additional to this 
he had an outstanding mortgage of around £72,000. I find this level of debt should have 
raised concerns.
Mr Bs joint bank statements for the months leading up to this loan show that the expenses 
exceeded income for each month resulting in the account going further into overdraft. Having 
considered the level of debt shown by Tesco Banks credit check, that Mr Bs income was 
lower than identified, his increasing overdraft and noting the proportion of his income already 
used to pay credit commitments, I do not find that this loan should have been considered 
sustainably affordable for Mr B.
Therefore, I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 3.
Loan 4: April 2018
Mr B was provided with a £20,000 loan in April 2018 with monthly repayments of around 
£422. This loan appears to have been used in part to repay the outstanding balance on the 
previous loan. As I upheld this complaint in regard to loan 3, and loan 4 was for a much 
larger amount with significantly larger monthly payments, I would only be able to say this 
loan should have been considered sustainably affordable if Mr Bs financial circumstances 
had significantly improved since loan 3. While Mr Bs recorded net monthly income had 
increased since loan 3, and this is supported by his statements, his unsecured debts had 
also increased. These were recorded as £32,200, a substantial increase since the previous 
loan. I find this shows that Mr Bs financial situation was deteriorating further with his reliance 
on debt increasing. So, I do not find that this loan should have been considered sustainably 
affordable.
Therefore, I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4.
Credit card provided October 2014
Mr B was provided with a credit card account in October 2014 with an initial credit limit of 
£1,000 and no credit limit increases were applied to the account. While I can see from the 
bank statements Mr B has provided that he was reliant on his overdraft at the time, noting the credit limit provided, the repayments that would be due as a result of this and Mr Bs 
income, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say this credit shouldnt have been 
provided. 
Credit card provided March 2017
Mr B was provided with a credit card account with a credit limit of £800 in March 2017. 
Tesco Bank has explained that this account was repaid in full the following month and I 
havent seen any evidence that any interest or charges were applied. Therefore, I agree with 
our investigator that even if the complaint was upheld in regard to this lending there would 
have been no detriment to Mr B and so I havent considered this further.  
In conclusion, I agree with our investigator that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in regard 
to loans 3 and 4.
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given 
loans 3 and 4. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Tesco Bank should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B.
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding loan 3.
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding loan 4 once 
any outstanding balance has been cleared.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from this interest. Tesco Bank 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as 
Tesco Bank should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman