DRN-3757703
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her account and didnt 
return all of her funds.
What happened
Barclays received a fraud report from another bank after £2,450 was credited to Miss Ss 
account. It blocked Miss Ss account in August 2020 and completed an investigation, 
following which Barclays decided to close Miss Ss account. Miss Ss account was closed on 
8 September 2020 and fraud markers were applied.
Miss S complained to Barclays a few days after and later explained that she was the victim 
of an investment scam herself and that she thought the credit she received related to the 
investment. Miss S moved the funds the following day as requested when she was told by 
the person managing her investment that the credit to her account was a mistake and that it 
was someone elses return. 
Barclays considered the evidence Miss S provided and decided to remove/downgrade the 
fraud markers it had applied. But Barclays said its decision to close Miss Ss account and not 
allow her to open another was made in line with its terms and conditions and remained 
unchanged. Barclays indemnified the bank that sent the fraud report and returned £506.46. 
Miss S was then given access to the remaining funds in the account.
Miss S was unhappy with Barclays response and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said Barclays shouldnt have closed her account and that as well as losing money in the 
investment scam £506.46 of her funds have been removed by Barclays. This has caused 
Miss S a lot of stress and difficulties. 
Miss Ss scam claim is being considered separately so Im only considering the closure of 
her account and whether Barclays acted reasonably in returning funds to the fraud claimant. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint said Barclays had applied its terms and 
conditions reasonably when it closed Miss Ss account. But he recommended that Barclays 
refund Miss S £506.46 plus interest. This was because although Miss S received fraudulent 
funds, she was also the victim of a scam and so it wasnt fair and reasonable to remove 
funds that belonged to Miss S. In the investigators opinion, Barclays terms and conditions 
didnt allow it to return funds when they were received as a result of fraud. 
Miss S accepted the investigators view, but Barclays did not. In summary, it said:
- Barclays received a scam claim against the £2,450 credit to Miss Ss account and 
correctly returned what was left of these funds as they didnt legitimately belong to 
Miss S. 
- Barclays noted that following the credit there were two debits from Miss Ss account 
of £2,399 and £180. Whilst Barclays only has details of where the £180 payment 
went it is plausible both transfers were to the same account  particularly given the 
fact its records show the larger payment wasnt made to a new payee. Confirmation 
of payee confirms the account was in Miss Ss name meaning the funds remained in 
her possession. 
I considered Miss Ss complaint and issued a provisional decision. I set out why I wasnt 
proposing to uphold the complaint and said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Barclays that ordinarily when a bank receives a fraud claim from another bank it 
should investigate and then return to the sending bank any funds that remain so that they 
may be passed to the fraud victim. 
The investigators opinion that Miss S should receive a refund of the amount returned to the 
fraud claimants account is based on the fact that Miss S was herself the victim of a scam 
and so Barclays didnt act fairly and reasonably, or in accordance with the terms of Miss Ss 
account, in returning funds to the claimants bank account. 
I dont agree with the investigator that Barclays terms and conditions dont allow it to remove 
funds from Miss Ss account in this case. The terms and conditions say,
When we can take money out of your account
Rarely, a payment comes into your account but the paying bank realises it was made 
fraudulently. Or it may be that the person paying it doesnt have enough money. If this 
happens, we can take the money back out of your account.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Miss S received fraudulent funds, so I consider 
that Barclays acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Miss Ss account in 
returning the fraudulent funds credited to her account. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss account also allow Barclays to remove funds if they 
were made by mistake as Miss S has suggested. 
So I need to decide if Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in applying its terms 
and conditions. 
Barclays asked Miss S about the origin of the funds and she said she thought they related to 
a return on the investment she had made and that she didnt know the individual who 
credited her account. Miss S said that she was then told the funds were paid in error and so 
she transferred them as instructed. Miss S hasnt provided any evidence that she was told 
that this is what the credit related to and I find it strange that the total amount Miss S 
transferred out of her account after the fraudulent credit exceeded the credit itself. I dont 
consider Miss S has provided a satisfactory explanation for this. Ive also seen evidence that 
shows the transfers Miss S made after the fraudulent credit were not to the same account 
she sent investment funds to previously. And at least some of the funds transferred from 
Miss Ss account after the fraudulent credit appear to have been sent to another account in 
her own name. 
Taking everything into account, I dont consider Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
returning the funds to the victim of the scam reported to it in the usual way. Barclays terms 
and conditions allow Barclays to return funds in these circumstances.
Closure of Miss Ss account
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. The terms and conditions 
of Miss Ss account  which both Barclays and Miss S had to comply with  say that 
Barclays can close Miss Ss account immediately in certain circumstances. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen Barclays was entitled to terminate its relationship with Miss S 
immediately and I note Miss S has accepted this. 
Barclays responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. Miss S didnt reply. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to consider any additional points, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision (which is reproduced above).
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman