DRN-2285284
The complaint
Miss E complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay her claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
From 25 September 2019, Miss E insured her car on a motor policy under which Advantage 
was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Advantage, I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their actions.
On the night of Friday 22 and Saturday 23 May 2020, someone took Miss Es car. She made 
a claim to Advantage. It turned down her claim, saying she had failed to protect the car from 
loss. 
Miss E complained to Advantage. It wrote a final response dated 14 June 2020 turning down 
her complaint. Unhappy with that, Miss E brought her complaint to us on 21 July 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantage had acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Miss E disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She and her children are missing out on a car. She is in £7,500.00 worth of debt plus 
paying for extra transport.
She is bewildered as to how her car has been stolen whether with the keys or 
without.
She cannot understand how she can be uninsured for such an event when she had 
taken out full comprehensive insurance.
There is a school opposite her house and she can never park there during the day 
time. She moved the vehicle to outside of her house every day  not specifically to 
watch over it on the night of the theft. 
She did not know what was going to happen and didn't think the keys were stolen 
until after the car had been taken. Therefore it would have been out of the question to 
release air from the tyres or disconnect the battery even if she knew how. The only 
person she knew with a garage lived miles away. While the country was in full Covid 
lockdown she would not have been able to park her car there. 
Had she realised that her keys were stolen and not simply misplaced, she would 
have reported this to the insurer and the police and would have asked advice from a 
garage the following day. As events unfolded this would have been too late. 
She simply thought that her key would be found the following morning or later that 
evening, as in the past.
After discovering that her car had gone she phoned the police. 
Her policy didnt contain the term the investigator commented on. She has sent us 
photographs of the information in her policy. It states no cover if the keys are left in 
the vehicle  which was not the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy schedule, I see that Miss Es car was registered in 2015 and she bought it in 
September 2019. She valued it at £5,900.00. She has told us that her car was on finance. 
So she has to continue to pay monthly instalments until the end of the agreement.
The insurance policy covered theft of the vehicle - subject to the policy terms. Miss E has 
sent us photographs of pages 12 and 20 from a policy document with the reference HD-PC-
GW-05-18. Advantage has sent us the whole of that policy booklet. It also includes (on 
pages 28 and 29) the following:
General conditions
You must comply with the conditions below. If you dont, depending on the 
circumstances, your Insurer may be entitled to cancel the Policy, refuse to deal with 
your claim or reduce the amount of any claim payment
3. Caring for your Car
You, or any person in charge of your Car, must protect it from damage or loss.
Miss E first reported the loss to Advantage on 23 May 2020. On 29 May Miss E and 
Advantage did a telephone interview. Advantage made a note of that interview. The note 
included the following:
CIRCS: PH confirmed on the 22.05.2020 noticed key had gone missing but thought might be 
her daughter who had moved it, still hasnt found it so unsure if in the house or if had been 
taken. PH confirmed vehicle was parked down the road on the road but as was worried about 
her key missing she moved it directly to the front of her house to keep an eye on the vehicle, 
PH noticed key gone so moved the spare key just in case. PH confirmed did try and call us to 
say key was missing but we were closed, PH 12:30am Saturday morning shouting outside her 
address and then noticed vehicle was missing.
The note also included the following:
PH confirmed last used the vehicle on Friday 22.05.2020 at tea time to move the vehicle, PH 
confirmed she moved it because she couldnt find the key so moved it to safeguard the 
vehicle, PH still hasnt found the key so guessing someone has taken the key so vehicle was 
moved directly outside of the property so PH could keep an eye on the vehicle.
The note also included the following:
PH confirmed she doesnt know who would take the vehicle, PH confirmed her front door 
was open and two lads came in the house for a bit on Friday but PH doesnt know them very 
well but they came in for 5 minutes but PH doesnt think they would be responsible, the PH 
confirmed they were outside talking but then the two men did enter the property but only for a 
short amount of time.Following that interview, Advantage declined Miss Es claim on the grounds that she hadnt 
protected her car from loss. Ive considered whether Advantages decision to decline the 
claim was fair and reasonable.
Advantage interviewed Miss E shortly after the incident. So where its note differs from her 
later statements, I place more weight on the note.
So I find that two young men who Miss E didnt know very well had entered her house. I find 
that was unusual behaviour during a lockdown. And Miss E later noticed her usual key was 
missing.
From that combination of circumstances, I think its fair to say that Miss E mustve 
recognised there was a risk that the men or someone else had taken her usual key and 
someone might steal her car. 
I find that Miss Es response was to use her spare key to move her car from where it was 
parked up the road to immediately in front of her house so she could keep an eye on it. 
But  with the key missing after the mens visit - I think Miss E ought reasonably to have 
realised that she needed to take more adequate action to protect her car from loss.
In my view, moving the car to outside the house wasnt an adequate precaution  indeed it 
ran the risk of making it easier to match the key missing from the house with the car parked 
outside it.
Miss E couldve sought help from neighbours to find a steering lock or another way to make 
her car more difficult to drive away.
I acknowledge that Miss E was left liable to pay for a vehicle she no longer had. She couldnt 
afford to replace it - which left her struggling to transport herself and her family.
However, I dont consider that Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Miss 
Es claim on the grounds that she had failed to protect her car from loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman