DRN-2851162
The complaint
 Mr V has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) failed
to provide him with sufficient support when he became extremely unwell and began
spending erratically on his Barclaycard credit card.
 
Background
 Mr V has a credit card with Barclays. The account has been open for a long time and Mr V
has managed his monthly repayments without any problems from when he took it out until
early 2019. Mr V has explained that he only used the card occasionally and always kept his
spending well within the cards limit. He rarely spent more than £100-£150 per month and
always cleared the balance in full to avoid paying interest on his purchases.
In 2018 Mr V became unwell and was prescribed medication by his doctors. Unfortunately,
he had an extreme reaction to this medication and it severely impacted his mental health.
Things became so difficult for Mr V at this time he was eventually sectioned under the
mental health act in December 2018 due to his erratic behaviour and the fact he was having
manic episodes. Mr V spent several months in hospital until he was well enough to return
home in the spring of 2019.
During his time in hospital Mr V began to use his credit card to make online purchases. He
has explained that in his manic state he was planning on opening a shop and so went online
to purchase stock for that shop. These purchases resulted in Mr V spending over £4,000 on
his credit card in a matter of weeks, during the time he was sectioned.
Mr V continued to use his card in this way until his wife realised what was happening having
opened his credit card bill while he was in hospital. When she saw the outstanding
balance on the statement she immediately contacted Barclays to explain her husband was
very unwell and vulnerable and ask it if it could put a block on his account to prevent him
from making any more purchases.
The Barclays representative Mr Vs wife spoke to explained that, as she wasnt named on
the account, they couldnt block it without speaking to Mr V. They asked her if it would be
possible for him to call the helpline and speak to a member of staff directly. The
representative she spoke to also explained that while they couldnt confirm exactly what
steps the bank would take next, as she wasnt party to the account, they had made a note of
what she had told them, and this would be passed to the relevant team.
Fortunately, Mr V was able to call Barclays after this and explained that he was in hospital
and was very unwell. During the call Mr V explained he had made some of the purchases
but didnt think he couldve made all of them as he didnt remember spending that much. The
Barclays representative he spoke to agreed to place a block on the account and to
temporarily freeze interest and charges from being applied. They asked him to look at his bill
and try to identify which purchases he wanted to dispute and which ones he was satisfied he
had made.
Upon review Mr V accepted he had made all the purchases but explained he had done so
while extremely unwell and didnt really remember a lot about his thought process at the
time. He questioned why Barclays hadnt contacted him when such unusual spending
started to occur on his account. He believes that as hed had the account for a long time
prior to becoming unwell Barclays shouldve realised the sudden increase in spending was
highly unusual. Mr V thinks the bank shouldve contacted him to check that he was the one
making the purchases and that everything was alright. Mr V has told us that he has since
managed to get refunds on about 50% of the purchases he made during this time. However,
he still has an outstanding balance of over £1,700 on his card and he believes Barclays
should write this off as a gesture of good will and in acknowledgment that he lacked capacity
at the time the purchases were made.
Barclays has said that it was unaware Mr V was unwell at the time. It believes it responded
reasonably when Mr Vs wife contacted its service to explain Mr V was in hospital. It has said
it was limited in what it could do initially as Mr Vs wife isnt named on the account and
doesnt have power of attorney for Mr V. However as soon as it was able to speak to Mr V
directly it responded by blocking the account and freezing all interest and charges while Mr V
tried to arranged refunds. It feels it has responded fairly and sympathetically to Mr Vs
situation but ultimately, he made the purchases, and so he is liable to repay them.
Mr V disagreed with Barclays response and brought his complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2021 upholding Mr Vs complaint and 
recommending that Barclays rework the credit card balance to refund all interest and 
charges paid by Mr V from February 2019 up to the date of the decision. I further set out that 
any interest or charges applied to the account during this period, but yet to be paid by Mr V, 
should also be removed from the outstanding balance on the account.
Barclays responded to the provisional decision agreeing with the suggested outcome.
Mr V responded by saying while he was still of the opinion that Barclays couldve responded 
in a more compassionate way by writing off the debt completely, he accepted the outcome 
set out in the provisional decision. However, he did request that the interest and charges 
associated with the debt he had incurred while he was unwell be waived entirely so as to 
include interest after the date of the decision to help him move on from what was a very 
traumatic period in his life.
I have considered the points raised by Mr V and respond to them in my revised findings set 
out below. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When considering this complaint, it seems to me what I need to establish is whether or not
Barclays responded reasonably and fairly when Mr V became unwell and whether there was
anything the business shouldve done to prevent him from accruing the debt he now has.
Barclays has said that it was unaware of Mr Vs mental health condition, and if it had known
that he had become unwell it may have been able to do more to help him at the time.
However, its unclear what this additional help or support may have looked like. And in any
event Mr V wasnt obliged to notify the business when he became unwell. So I am going to
consider how it did respond once Mr Vs wife saw the credit card bill and contacted the bank
to explain what was going on.I agree there were limitations around what Barclays was able to do initially given Mr Vs wife
wasnt named on the account and wasnt officially authorised by Mr V to speak to the bank
about it. There are legitimate privacy and security concerns that Barclays are obliged to 
consider, and its important that business dont provide private information to unauthorised 
third parties when they contact it about someone elses account.
That said it was evident that Mr Vs wife was phoning for an urgent reason and was very
concerned about her husbands mental health and the impact it was having on his spending.
She was able to verify enough information that the person she was speaking to was satisfied
she was who she said she was, and that Mr V was extremely unwell and vulnerable. I think
Barclays responded appropriately when it spoke to her. The person she spoke to explained
there were limitations on what they could do immediately but assured her that they would
action the information she had provided. They couldnt clarify exactly how they would action
it due to security and privacy restrictions, but they did explain if Mr V was well enough to
speak to them directly they would be able to block his account.
Fortunately Mr V, with the help and support of his wife and his medical team, was able to
contact Barclays the following day and a block was added to the card to prevent him from
making further purchases. And no additional spending had taken place during the time
Barclays was put on notice by Mr Vs wife contacting it for the block to be added. At this
point Mr V was unsure if any of the transactions listed on his previous statement were
fraudulent and having listened to the calls between Mr V and Barclays its clear he was very
confused and disorientated at this time. After speaking to Mr V Barclays agreed to suspend
the interest and charges on his account for 30 days so he had some time to try to identify
anything he felt he didnt purchase or try to return the items he had bought. The person Mr V
spoke to was empathetic and clearly explained his options and what the next steps would
be.
With the help and support of his wife and some family members Mr V managed to return
approximately 50% of the goods he had purchased while he was unwell. And this resulted in
the outstanding balance being reduced to just over £2,000. Barclays spoke to Mr V about his
financial situation after this and he confirmed that he wasnt experiencing financial hardship
but wanted the bank to write off the remainder of his debt as a goodwill gesture. Mr V has
said that the way he was spending was so clearly out of character that Barclays shouldve
contacted him as soon as his balance exceeded its normal amount to check he was okay.
He says another bank he holds accounts with wrote off debt he accrued while he was in
hospital in recognition of the fact he was unwell and vulnerable at the time. He feels its
unfair he be held responsible for the debt given he didnt really understand what he was
doing at the time.
Looking at how Barclays actioned the information provided by Mr Vs wife I think it
responded reasonably. As soon as it was able to speak to Mr V it blocked the card and it
suspended applying interest and charges on more than one occasion. This is was in
recognition of the fact that Mr V was vulnerable at the time he made the purchases and
Barclays accepted this sort of spending was out of character for him.
However, I also agree with Mr V and believe that there was an opportunity for Barclays to
have contacted him earlier given just how out of character the spending on the account was
for Mr V. I agree that there was a missed opportunity during the time Mr V was making the
purchases where Barclays couldve contacted him to ensure that he was aware of how much
had been charged onto his account and that this conversation may have helped prevent
Mr V from running up as big a bill as he did.
However, since the complaint has come to me to consider Barclays has offered to refund all
of the interest and charges that were applied to Mr Vs account from February 2019 up untilthe date of this decision. This is in recognition of the fact that Mr V was extremely unwell
when he made the purchases and the spending was the direct result of his mental health
problems at the time. This would mean that Mr V would only be liable to repay the cost of the
purchases he made and nothing else.
I believe this is a fair offer by Barclays. While I appreciate other businesses have offered to
write off similar debts Mr V accrued during this time, I can only instruct a business to do
something where I feel it has failed to meet the standards set out in the guiding rules and
regulations; or has failed to respond in a reasonable and fair way. And while I understand
how unwell Mr V was at the time he made the purchases, and that they were totally out of
character for him, I also think Barclays responded reasonably when his wife contacted it.
And now it has offered to refund the interest and charges it had previously applied to the
account, which I also think is fair. So I dont believe it would be reasonable for me to ask it to
do any more in relation to Mr Vs complaint.
In response to the provisional decision Mr V asked that no future interest or charges be 
applied to the debt he incurred when he was unwell at any point going forward. He said this 
would make the repayment of the outstanding debt more manageable for him. I have 
considered this point and understand why Mr V has requested it. However, I still believe the 
offer made by Barclays to refund all interest and charges up to the date of the provisional 
decision (28 April 2021) was reasonable and fair and so I wont be asking it to extend the 
freeze on charges beyond that date.  
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I am upholding Mr Vs complaint against
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard. 
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should:
Rework the credit card balance to refund all interest and charges paid by Mr V from
February 2019 up to the date of the provisional decision, i.e 28 April 2021. Any interest or 
charges applied to the account during this period, but yet to be paid by Mr V, should also be 
removed from the outstanding balance on the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman