DRN-2196591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their claim against 
their annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy after they cancelled their trip. Reference to 
URV includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Im very sorry to hear of the circumstances that led to Mr and Mrs Rs claim against their 
policy. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. As the facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to ask for medical information from Mrs Rs 
late sisters GP. Thats because Mr and Mrs Rs policy says that theres no cover for 
a previously diagnosed condition of any close relative. So, URV would wish to 
establish whether Mrs Rs sister had passed away from a previously diagnosed 
condition.
When Mr and Mrs R reported the difficulties they were having obtaining the medical 
information required, URV waived the requirement. I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
URV initially said that Mr and Mrs Rs claim was less than the £300 excess due 
under the policy. The policy schedule sets out the levels of cover and the excess of 
£150 per person. The policy itself doesnt specifically state that the £150 excess is 
per person but its clear that an excess is payable following a claim for cancellation. 
Theres no exception for the circumstances that arose here.
URV has waived one of the excesses, so its applied just one excess of £150 to       
Mr and Mrs Rs claim, which I think is fair. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman