DRN-3963591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D, who are represented by a professional representative (PR) complain that 
Vacation Finance Limited trading as VFL Finance Solutions (VFL) rejected their claims 
under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs D purchased a points based holiday product from a company I 
will call A which was funded in part with a loan from VFL. This cost £42,816. Mr and Mrs D 
have made seven purchases of holiday products from A between 2011 and 2019, including 
the 2018 one which is the subject of this complaint.  
In December 2021 PR submitted a letter of claim to VFL. As both parties are aware of the 
details of the claim, for the sake of brevity, I will provide a short summary of the key points.
It claimed there had been a breach of contract as A was now in liquidation. It said Mr and 
Mrs D had been approached while on holiday and aggressively targeted. They were told the 
new points based product could be sold at a profit. PR said this was misrepresentation in 
contravention of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010. It also claimed Mr and Mrs D had been subjected to aggressive 
commercial practices in contravention of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations (CPUT). It said they had been told the special price was available only at that 
time and the following year they were told a new more desirable product should be 
purchased. 
PR said Mr and Mrs D had been pressed to borrow from VFL and it had not undertaken a 
proper affordability check. Insufficient time had been given to allow them to consider the 
purchase properly and they had not been told of the commission paid by VFL to A.
VFL rejected the claims and disputed the allegations made by PR. It said Mr and Mrs D had 
14 days from the date of signing to withdraw from the contract if they felt they had been 
misled or unduly pressurised. They had a responsibility to make sure they were satisfied with 
what they were signing. It disputed the claim that they had been told it was an investment 
and said no commission had been paid. The club was still running despite the liquidation and 
so there had been no breach of contract. It also noted that the loan had been repaid in full in 
September 2018 which did not indicate it was unaffordable. It also said that they had made 
multiple purchases which indicated they were satisfied with the products sold by A. Overall, it 
concluded that there was no evidence provided in support of the claim.
PR brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr and Mrs D reiterating the points made 
in the claim. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt consider it should be 
upheld. Our investigator concluded there was insufficient evidence of either 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. Nor did she think there was an unfair relationship 
under s.140A CAA.
PR didnt agree and reiterated that the product had been sold as an investment. They had 
been pressed to make numerous upgrades. The points they purchased could not be sold as 
there was no market for them. Mr and Mrs D had not been given clear information in order 
for them to have been able to make an informed decision.  A had not complied with the 
various regulations and Mr and Mrs D had only made the purchase because of the 
misrepresentations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why. Firstly I should explain that there is little in the 
way of documentary material. PR refers to 100s of pages but apart from a nine page 
agreement with A and the loan agreement I have not seen the full documentation.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
The nature of the loan means that it would have been a regulated credit agreement covered 
by the Consumer Credit Act. I have assumed that A acted as credit broker as well as being 
the seller of the timeshare.
Under s. 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection with a 
consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. In this case, that means that 
anything A said about the timeshare or the loan is to be treated in the same way as if it had 
been said by VFL.
In addition, one effect of s. 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
I am satisfied that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. I must therefore consider what the position might be if Mr and Mrs D were to bring a claim or claims against 
A, either for misrepresentation of for breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR has said that Mr and Mrs D were told that their purchase was an investment. While I was 
not present at the time of sale I do not consider that I am able to conclude the product was 
misrepresented. I have seen no explanation of how that could be the case or why Mr and 
Mrs D believed that the purchase of points would be an investment. If they had been told 
that  or had otherwise believed that to be the case  I would have expected them to ask for 
more information.
I appreciate their claim that they believed they were purchasing an investment, but the 
frequent purchases they made does not support that claim. The belief they were buying an 
investment does not mean they were told it was a financial investment. These products can 
be described as investments in future holidays etc. I accept that the sales representatives 
will have but the best gloss on the product they were selling, but that of itself does not 
amount to misrepresentation.
PR has said they were seeking to sell the product, but I have seen no evidence in support of 
that.  I would also mention that as they have had a long history of making purchases from A 
and it seems likely that they will have been aware of the sales process and the products A 
was selling.
In short I do not believe I can say that there was misrepresentation such that I can uphold 
this complaint.
Breach of Contract
I do not believe that the liquidation of A in 2020 led to a breach of contract. I gather a new 
management company was appointed, and Mr and Mrs D were able to use the timeshare as 
usual after that date.
In July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said: The JLs are pleased to 
confirm that FNTC has taken over as the new manager of the Clubs and further confirm that, 
as a result, the Clubs will continue to operate for the benefit of members. I presume Mr and 
Mrs D received a copy of this letter or something similar.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr and Mrs Ds purchase of the points 
remain available to them and are unaffected by the liquidation. Indeed the agreements used 
by A usually allow for the liquidation of A and its replacement by another provider. That said, 
I cannot say if this was in Mr and Mrs Ds contract since I have not seen a full copy of it.
Given I have not been persuaded that the product was sold as a financial investment I 
cannot conclude that the removal of a sales service by A can been regarded as a breach of 
contract.
S. 140A claims
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr and Mrs D and 
VFL were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs D could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against VFL anyway.
Mr and Mrs Ds alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to them personally, which 
must mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that VFL assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
Furthermore, one of the main planks of the claim was the allegation that VFL had paid 
commission, but it has denied that it paid commission.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D are dissatisfied with their purchase and they have my sympathies 
for this, but, in summary I cannot see why any of their claims were likely to have succeeded. 
So overall I think that VFL acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s.140A 
CCA.
As such I can see no basis for a successful claim under s.140A. Nor do I think the alleged 
pressure to which PR says Mr and Mrs D had been subjected at the time of the sale would 
allow me to uphold this complaint.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. 
Our investigator said that she could not see any evidence that Mr and Mrs D found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if VFL did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me 
to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr and Mrs D 
lost out as a result of its failings. VFL has pointed out they repaid the loan after a relatively 
short time which does not indicate it was unaffordable. PR has provided no evidence 
whatsoever that they would have found, or did find, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not 
need to consider this point further.
Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs D have a claim against A, or whether they 
might therefore have a like claim under s. 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under s. 140A and s. 140A of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it.Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr and Mrs 
Ds complaint. In the circumstances, I think that VFLs response to Mr and Mrs Ds claims 
was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman