DRN-1553263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly 
and unreasonably when they were in financial difficulties and how its generally administered 
the mortgage. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a mortgage with Halifax, and got into financial difficulties and suffered 
from mortgage arrears. They said that Halifax attempted to take possession several times 
and refused to explain the solicitors fees charged to their account as a result. Mr and Mrs F 
added that theyd only received three invoices after complaining, and Halifax hadnt provided 
call recordings promptly. The property was sold in October 2019.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Halifax. It provided breakdowns of the fees and copy invoices, 
and explained that costs related to the third party costs it paid, such as solicitors and dog 
handlers. Halifax said that it had written to Mr and Mrs F about the charges and sent copies 
of those letters, and said it had already refunded an overpayment of £152 made to a third 
party. It asked for more information about the calls Mr and Mrs F wanted, and provided the 
call recordings once the information was given.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us and said dog warden charges shouldnt have been charged 
as there hadnt been a dog at the property since November 2014; they were adamant that 
other fees had been charged which hadnt been explained. 
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that more than 
three sets of solicitors fees had been charged, but invoices and copy letters notifying 
Mr and Mrs F of the fees had been supplied by Halifax and there were no solicitors fees 
which hadnt been notified to them. The investigator explained that different dog handlers 
had been booked to attend the property, who charged different rates. He said theyd been 
booked because field agents had seen a dog on the property after 2014; the investigator 
wasnt willing to say as a result that Halifax had unreasonably booked dog handlers to attend 
the planned evictions. The investigator thought Halifax couldve handled Mr Fs request for 
call recordings more efficiently but didnt think it caused any financial loss or required 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They sent evidence of the death of their dog and felt that the field 
agent had simply ticked a box in his form as thered previously been a dog present. Halifax 
sent a copy of the agents report, which showed that the agent specifically said that there 
was a dog present in November 2017 and agents were trained to undertake such visits. It 
said there was no reason for it not to believe the agents report. The investigator thought that 
while Mr and Mrs F had shown a dog had passed, they hadnt shown that the field agent was 
wrong and that there wasnt a dog on the premises when he visited; he said it was 
reasonable for Halifax to charge for the dog handler fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what the parties have to say, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs F are most 
upset about the dog handlers fees. Theyre not now disputing the amount charged but the 
different firms, which is understandable as different firms can charge different rates, but the 
decision by Halifax to instruct them at all. Mr and Mrs F say their dog died in 2014 so 
charges after this date shouldnt have been passed onto their mortgage account.
While I accept Mr and Mrs F lost a dog in 2014, Halifax can only make decisions on the 
basis of the information it has. Field agent reports, including after 2014, said that there was a 
dog on the premises. Field agents undertake a specialist role and are likely to understand 
why lenders need to know about animals present for properties facing possession 
proceedings  its to ensure the animals are looked after if eviction is required. This requires 
the instruction of animal handlers. Im not persuaded that the evidence shows it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to instruct dog handlers to attend the planned evictions. Its fair and 
reasonable for lenders to rely on the reports of field agents about the property  this is one of 
the reasons they send the agent.
In relation to the other charges, I will focus on the point raised by Mr and Mrs F about the 
solicitors fees. I can see there were more than three invoices and the solicitors didnt charge 
for all costs until a few months had passed at one point. This wasnt to Mr and Mrs Fs 
disadvantage as interest isnt charged on fees until the invoice is received and paid. From 
looking at the evidence, Im satisfied that the costs were notified at the time to Mr and Mrs F, 
but I agree they didnt receive invoices every time. The reason is because the solicitors were 
acting for Halifax, so the information which Mr and Mrs F could be given is limited as Halifax 
is able to assert its entitled to legal privilege.
Mr and Mrs F agreed to the terms and conditions of the mortgage when they accepted the 
mortgage offer. It included the term that You have to pay our expenses in full unless you 
can show that they were incurred unreasonably or that the amount of them is unreasonable. 
Given though the legal work was done for Halifaxs benefit, this means Mr and Mrs F are 
liable to pay unless the work was incurred unreasonably or cost too much. Bearing in mind 
that Mr and Mrs F were in arrears and the work set out within the invoices, I cant say Halifax 
acted unreasonably in passing on the full cost to Mr and Mrs F.
In relation to the call recordings issue, I dont think Halifaxs actions reached the threshold of 
being unfair or unreasonable as they were provided once Mr F confirmed which ones he 
wanted, and Im not persuaded that compensation would be appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman