DRN-1557417
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, didnt allow him to switch his 
current account and claim £100 for dissatisfaction with its service; and it didnt properly 
respond to his request to close his savings account.
What happened
Mr E switched his current account to first direct in 2018. At that time, first direct offered a 
£100 payment for customers who decided to switch to a different bank within a year through 
being dissatisfied with its service. 
In May 2019, Mr E decided to switch to another bank. He sent first direct an email to say 
this; explaining that hed had repeated problems with using the automated machines in its 
branches, and was unable to log into his online banking. 
But first direct replied to say that it wasnt unable to deal with Mr Es query as his email 
wasnt a secure form of communicating about his account. It asked him submit his request 
through his online banking or call. 
But Mr E found that he couldnt copy the details of the complaint he wanted to make into the 
online message box to register it. He raised his concerns as he felt that first direct shouldnt 
invite customers to send an email if it wouldnt respond to them. He also found that he 
couldnt reply to a message it had sent in response to his query about the closure of his 
savings account, which hadnt been helpful.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that although Mr E asked for his account to be switched, this was more than a year after 
hed opened it. The investigator felt that first directs response to Mr E was reasonable, as 
emails aren't a secure way of making a request involving an account without verification. He 
said he thought first directs response to Mr Es question about closing his savings account 
wasnt unreasonable and felt Mr Es dissatisfaction may have been enhanced by the use of 
email and the time the response took. The investigator said that first direct had offered to 
pay Mr E £100 as a gesture of goodwill, and he thought this was a fair outcome. 
Mr E didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said, in summary, that the aspect of his complaint about first direct failing to respond to his 
request to close his savings account hadnt been considered. Hed wanted to know whether 
he could transfer the balance directly to an existing account with another bank, or whether 
he first had to transfer it into his current account. first directs response had been to ask 
which account he wanted it transferred into, which he didnt feel was helpful or answered his 
question. 
He felt it was unjustified to say that he wasnt satisfied with the length of time the responses 
took; and said the investigator wrongly claimed that his request to close the account was out 
of time. He didnt feel that personal information was asked in his email, he said this was a request for generic information, and hed also provided his postal address. Mr E also didnt 
think the investigator had addressed his complaint points about issues with first directs 
website and it ignoring his concerns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es complaint covers a number of different points related to his accounts with first direct. 
My intention is focus on what I see to be the crux of the complaint points so, for ease; Ill set 
out my findings on each of these points as I see them.
Mr Es email about closing his account and first directs response
Ive considered Mr Es email and the wording he used. I appreciate that he included his 
home address in this email, and feels that he was asking for generic information. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for first direct to want to look to discuss his account with 
him in a more secure way.  Although Mr Es question was whether he could switch his 
account in the normal way and receive the £100 payment for being dissatisfied with the 
service; responding to this could be giving some information about Mr E in an unsecure 
communication method - possibly to someone who had some of Mr Es details. For example; 
a response could confirm that Mr E did have an account with first direct. And although his 
online banking was blocked at that time; he was given a telephone number to call about his 
query, or could have arranged for it to be unblocked to use first directs secure messaging 
service.
Mr Es problems with using first directs secure messaging system
I can see that Mr E was unable to copy the details of his complaint into the secure message 
system. This seems to have been because it wouldnt accept certain characters Mr E had 
used in the format hed written it in. first direct responded with a suggestion of how this could 
be copied into it, and explained it had brought out a new online banking platform which 
should prevent the problem Mr E experienced. I think this was a reasonable response in the 
circumstances.
Mr Es message about closing his savings account
Mr E also feels that first directs response to his question about closing his savings account 
and transferring out the balance wasnt helpful as it asked him what bank it was to be 
transferred to. However, this may have been because the answer to his original question 
may have depended on knowing this. I dont think this response in itself meant that first 
direct acted wrongly or was intentionally being unhelpful.
The service guarantee 
first direct said that Mr E wasnt eligible for its service guarantee payment of £100, as it had 
to be claimed within a year of opening the account. And it said Mr Es account was opened 
on 24 April 2018, so he didnt claim it in time. However, Mr E has said that his account was 
opened on 11 May 2018, and he wasnt able to use it before then. The information provided 
suggests that this was the date his previous current account would be transferred to first 
direct, rather than the date his first direct account was opened. This is supported through the 
application screenshots Mr E has sent us. Mr E received an email on 24 April 2018, in which first direct reminded him that he hadnt yet 
returned his acknowledgement documents for the account. But first directs records show 
that this prompted Mr E to contact it and confirm that hed already returned them. They were 
then found and so his account was set up for his previous account to be switched to it.
I appreciate that Mr E has told us that he made a previous complaint to first direct in June 
2018, so expressed his dissatisfaction with first direct at that time. However, having 
considered the criteria for the service guarantee, this says that a closure request because of 
dissatisfaction or a claim for the guarantee should be received with 12 months of the 
opening date of the account. So the £100 payment would be made when an eligible 
customer was leaving first direct to move to another bank, rather than when an expression of 
dissatisfaction was made without a closure request. 
Overall, I dont think first direct has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it has dealt with 
and responded to Mr Es requests. It has apologised for any issues Mr E had in sending 
messages to it and has offered to pay Mr E the £100 as a gesture of goodwill, which I think 
represents a fair settlement to his complaint.  
I leave it for Mr E to contact first direct should he wish to accept this offer. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman