DRN-2539600
The complaint
Mr N complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) cancelled his HomeCare policy by 
mistake and didnt provide the service that hed paid for.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr N took out a HomeCare Two policy with BG by sending them a cheque 
for the requested annual premium of £216. This was sent to BG in their pre-paid envelope 
with Mr Ns account details on the back as requested - and cashed by BG on 16 October. On 
28 October, Mr N received confirmation from BG that his policy had been set up.
On 7 November, BG contacted Mr N to say that they hadnt received the payment for his 
policy, and it was showing as lapsed because of this. Mr N contacted his bank for 
confirmation that the cheque had been cashed and provided all the payment details to BG. 
He also asked them to log a complaint to investigate what had happened. He then received 
further confirmation on 10 November that the policy was in place.
On 12 November, Mr N contacted BG as he wasnt able to access his account and he 
wanted to arrange his annual service and some other repairs. BG logged the complaint but 
didnt arrange for the boiler service or look into his account access problems. 
At the start of December, Mr N chased BG for an update and was told it was being 
investigated by their complaints department and was within their timescales to respond. 
Then at the end of December, Mr N received a letter from BG saying that theyd cancelled 
his policy as hed said he didnt want to continue with it  but they were still looking into his 
complaint. 
Around the same time, Mr Ns boiler started to experience problems and eventually broke. 
So, Mr N purchased electric heaters to use through the Christmas period and then used his 
home insurance policy to repair the boiler as soon as possible. 
In mid-March 2020, BG upheld Mr Ns complaint. They agreed that Mr Ns cheque had been 
cashed by them in October 2019, but it hadnt been credited to his account until January 
2020 which had caused the payment to lapse. They apologised that Mr N hadnt been able 
to book a boiler service and agreed that he hadnt received the service from them that he 
should have. So, they arranged to refund his payment and offered him £40 compensation.  
Mr N didnt think the compensation was a fair amount for the inconvenience that hed 
suffered. He was also unhappy they hadnt explained what had caused the error, so he 
asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. She thought that Mr N had made 
it clear he wanted to arrange a service for his boiler and that hed had no choice but to buy 
portable heaters for the winter period as his boiler wasnt working correctly. 
She also didnt think BG had communicated with Mr N enough to let him know what was 
happening, meaning hed been left trying to resolve the issue for five months. So, she 
thought BG should increase the compensation to £250 and pay 8% interest for the time BG 
had the money in their account.
Mr D agreed but BG didnt. They said they were happy to pay the 8% interest, but they 
thought £250 compensation was too much and offered a £100 increase to a total of £160.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
BG told us that the they didnt feel Mr Ns complaint was justified. They said that when 
Mr Ns cheque was received it wasnt applied to his account but remained in their suspense 
account. They also said that Mr N had chosen to cancel the policy once the payment had 
been located and that they werent given the opportunity to provide an engineer for Mr N. But 
I dont agree. 
The terms and conditions of the HomeCare policy states under the General conditions 
section that You can pay for your agreement yearly by cheque, debit card or credit card or 
Direct Debit.  Its not in dispute that Mr N made his payment by cheque - as BG have now 
located his payment and refunded him - or that he didnt receive the service he paid for. So, 
what I need to look into is the impact on Mr N from the loss of the payment by BG. 
Lost cheque
In this case Mr N had made the payment in a manner that BG had agreed and provided 
them with the information they required to set up the policy. So I think it was reasonable for 
him to believe that BG would be able to process his payment correctly. I recognise BG said 
that a cheque would be paid into their suspense account if there was insufficient information 
for them to identify the customer or the information on the cheque was unclear. 
However, at some point shortly after receiving the cheque BG must have been able to 
recognise Mr N or they wouldnt have been able to write to him to confirm the policy had 
been set up. Or provide account log on details  albeit ones that didnt work. So, it seems 
likely that there was an error by BG when processing Mr Ns payment  rather than the 
details being unclear.  
Looking at the case notes and email correspondence between Mr N and BG and Ive seen 
that on numerous occasions Mr N told BG that the cheque had been cashed and that hed 
visited his bank several times to double check this. Ive also seen that Mr N provided the 
date the cheque was cashed, and the cheque number as requested, but BG still werent able 
to locate it  despite being provided with all the information they said they needed.
I dont think it was possible for Mr N to do anything more here, and I understand his 
frustration that even after providing the information, BG werent able to find a payment which 
had been cashed for that specific amount, on that specific date, for over five months. And 
meant he wasnt able to benefit from a service hed already paid for.
Ive also seen that during the five months, Mr N was told conflicting information both by letter 
and on the phone by BG. I can see that he received a letter at the end of October 2019 
confirming that his HomeCare policy was set up and he should call to book his service - 
which he tried to do but was declined due to the lapsed policy. 
Ive also seen that Mr N repeatedly contacted BG to ask what was happening as they didnt 
update him on their investigation. I can see that Mr N became increasingly frustrated at the 
lack of information or explanation, and when BG did respond to his complaint, they still didnt 
explain what had happened. Looking at the evidence BG have provided, I also havent seen 
anything that explains why it took so long to locate the payment. So I cant reasonably say 
BG treated Mr N fairly here. 
The boiler service and repairMr N has said that he feels BG breached their agreement with him by not providing a service 
he paid for. And looking at the HomeCare terms and conditions I can see that Mr N took out 
a HomeCare Two policy which should have covered his Boiler, controls and central heating 
on a service and repair basis. BG said they dont agree as they feel they werent given the 
opportunity to repair Mr Ns boiler.
Looking at the emails Mr N sent to BG, I think it was clear that he wanted to book a service 
for the boiler and arrange for other potential repairs. Ive seen evidence that he also told BG 
that hed tried repeatedly to use their online booking to do this but was met with error 
messages. I think Mr N also made it clear that he wanted to use the service hed paid for and 
that by not providing them, BG had breached their agreement with him. So, Im satisfied that 
not only did Mr N make his intentions clear that his boiler needed a service, and additional 
repairs, he gave BG plenty of opportunities to arrange for an engineer to visit  which they 
didnt do as they couldnt trace his payment. 
I recognise BGs comments that had Mr N specifically told them that an engineer was 
required they would have arranged for a visit. However, after Mr N had contacted them for 
several months to arrange this without success, Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive seen 
evidence that Mr N had to purchase electric heaters once his boiler broke as he had no other 
way to heat his property over the Christmas period. I think its unlikely that if Mr N felt there 
was any chance of BG repairing his boiler, he would have caused himself further difficulty at 
that time of the year by choosing to wait for his home insurer instead. 
Furthermore, as Mr N had paid for the annual policy in full and the cheque had debited his 
account, he wasnt able to look elsewhere for a replacement policy. This meant he was 
reliant on BGs investigation to proceed with his boiler service and the additional work hed 
already mentioned when taking out the policy. 
I havent seen any evidence from BG to explain why it took five months to locate Mr Ns 
payment. But what I have seen is that BG had sent Mr N several letters saying the policy 
had been set up, so they were aware that there was an issue somewhere with their internal 
systems or process. And while BG were aware of this, they didnt try to help Mr N although I 
think hed made it clear he thought there may be an issue with his boiler. And because of the 
delays caused, Mr Ns boiler eventually broke leading to further distress and inconvenience 
for Mr N. So, I dont think BG acted reasonably. 
Putting things right
I recognise that BG feel the investigators recommendation of £250 compensation was high 
given the circumstances of the complaint, but I dont agree. 
Throughout the five months that BG were unable to locate Mr Ns payment he was caused 
distress and inconvenience. Mr N had to visit his bank on several occasions and repeatedly 
chase BG for update despite providing the information BG told him theyd need to locate his 
payment. 
Mr N had made it clear from the outset that he felt his boiler may need additional work but 
because of the issues with the missing cheque, Mr N was forced into a position where his 
boiler broke at a time where he wasnt able to arrange for a repair quickly. This meant he 
had to not only source an alternative way to pay for repairs that should have already been 
covered but also another way to heat his property during the winter. 
So, given the circumstances of the complaint, I think BG should pay Mr N a total of £250 for 
the trouble and upset caused. This is in addition to the 8% interest per annum they have 
already agreed pay on the £216 - from the date the cheque was cashed until it was refunded 
to Mr N. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct British Gas Services Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr N £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
Pay Mr N 8% standard interest from the date the cheque was cashed until the date 
the payment was refunded to him*.
*If British Gas Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman