DRN-2797334
The complaint
M, a trust, is complaining about the administration of a term assurance policy by Old Mutual 
Wealth Life Assurance Limited. M is represented by Mr K, a trustee. 
What happened
Mr Ks wife had a life assurance policy with a sum assured of £1.1m. The life assurance plan 
was held in trust for her five children. When Mr Ks wife passed away, Mr K contacted Old 
Mutual to make a claim on the policy. He wanted the money paid directly to an investment 
company who would invest the money on behalf of each of the five children. Old Mutual said 
theyd only pay the proceeds to himself (as trustee), a trustee bank account, or a solicitors 
client account. Or, they said, they could pay the money straight to the beneficiaries if they 
had sight of identity documents for the beneficiaries. They said they couldnt pay the money 
to a third party company as Mr K wanted.
Mr K didnt have a trustee bank account at the time, and his solicitor wasnt willing to set up 
an account for the funds to come in and go straight back out again. And Mr K was advised 
that if the funds were paid to him personally there could be inheritance tax implications if he 
didnt have written confirmation that the money belonged to the trust and not to him.
After several conversations, Old Mutual eventually paid the money to Mr K in early 
June 2020. Mr Ks unhappy about the service and information provided, and about the 
delays this caused. He said if the money had been paid to him on 12 March 2020 when hed 
first asked for it, the money could have been invested in the stock market at around its 
lowest point. Instead, it wasnt invested until much later and each beneficiary missed out on 
market gains of around £60,000. 
Mr K complained to Old Mutual. They apologised and offered £250 as compensation. Mr K 
wasnt happy  he felt theyd brushed over his complaint and not considered each point in 
full. So he came to our service. He said that the delays could have been avoided if Old 
Mutual had been willing to provide him with written confirmation that the money was going to 
him as trustee in March 2020 as hed asked. 
Our investigator said she thought the £250 Old Mutual had offered Mr K was fair, and that 
she thought they didnt need to do any more. She didnt think Mr K had asked for the written 
confirmation in March 2020  she couldnt see hed asked for it until mid-May. She 
acknowledged Mr Ks frustration with Old Mutuals process but didnt think they should be 
held responsible for the lost investment opportunity.
Mr K wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  so its come to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the unexpected death of his wife must have caused a great deal of upset for 
Mr K and his family. And I can understand that the difficulties he encountered with Old 
Mutual made that worse. But I dont think Old Mutual need to do any more than pay the £250 
theyve offered to Mr K. Ill explain why. Mr Ks sent very detailed reasons for his complaint. I 
have considered everything hes sent in and told us on the phone, but my written decision 
focuses on the key points. 
Mr Ks told us that the crux of his complaint is that Old Mutual refused to confirm in writing 
that the money would be paid to him as trustee. Mr Ks view is that he asked for this on 
12 March 2020 and that if it had been provided as requested, hed have been able to claim 
the funds almost immediately. 
Ive listened to the calls from 12 March 2020, and I dont agree that Mr K asked for 
confirmation in writing that the money would be paid to him as trustee. The first time I can 
see he made this request was by email on 14 May 2020. On 12 March, one of Old Mutuals 
advisors told Mr K that the payment would reference him as trustee, but there was no 
detailed conversation about the need to have this in writing in advance of the payment being 
made.
Mr K had several conversations with Old Mutual on 12 March 2020, and a further 
conversation on 16 March 2020. Its clear he wanted to have the money paid straight to the 
investment company and was frustrated that this wasnt possible. He wanted to understand 
the potential tax implications of having it paid into his bank account, and they also discussed 
the possibility of paying the money directly to the beneficiaries.  
It seems that by the end of these conversations, Mr K was planning to get everything sorted 
at the investment company and then submit the claim form for the money to come into his 
account so as to minimise the amount of the time the funds spent in his account. It also 
appears that he was looking into the possibility of setting up a trustee bank account to use 
instead of his own bank account.
I cant see that there was any communication between Mr K and Old Mutual between 
16 March and 13 May 2020. Im not satisfied that Old Mutual should take any responsibility 
for this eight week delay  theyd offered several different options for paying out the money. 
Old Mutual have a duty to protect the funds they hold on behalf of customers. Theyre 
allowed to decide on the policies and procedures they put in place to do this. I appreciate 
Mr Ks was frustrated that Old Mutual would have been happy to pay the money into a 
solicitors client account but werent happy to pay it to an investment manager. Its common 
for solicitors to be involved in managing assets after someone dies and the way they handle 
client money is strictly regulated. So its understandable that Old Mutual would be 
comfortable with paying to that sort of account.      
Mr Ks also frustrated that it seemed on 15 May 2020 that Old Mutual were agreeing to pay 
the money into accounts held by an investment company for each beneficiary but that after 
further correspondence they asked for lots of documentation, some of which was impractical 
(for example proof of address for children under 18). This led to a further delay in payment of 
the funds until 4 June.
Ive listened to the 15 May call. It seems Mr K and the Old Mutual representative were 
talking about slightly different arrangements without realising. Old Mutual said they could pay 
the money to the beneficiaries without further identification documents on the basis that Mr K 
was signatory on all five beneficiaries accounts. Mr K confirmed that he was, and that he 
was trustee for all five accounts. But the Old Mutual representative seems to have thought 
Mr K was talking about bank accounts  which is confirmed by her email later that day. She 
doesnt seem to have realised Mr K was talking about paying money to investment accounts 
held by an investment company.
It was only as a result of further correspondence that Old Mutual realised what Mr K was 
asking them to do  and that it was against their policy of not paying money to third party companies. At this point it seems they looked into how they could make an exception for 
Mr K and make the payments to the investment company as he was asking. I appreciate the 
list of required identification documents was onerous  but Old Mutual are required to 
carefully check who they are paying money to, and I can understand the long list, particularly 
when it was an unusual, and large, payment.
Unfortunately, even once Mr K had agreed to have the funds paid to his own bank account 
things didnt go as he expected. It took more than 24 hours for the money to reach his 
account. And when it did arrive, there was no reference to it being a trustee payment on the 
bank statements. Again, I can understand his frustration, but Old Mutual have explained that 
although they processed the payment on 3 June 2020 the necessary checks werent 
completed until 4 June. And they said the payment was sent with a trustee reference so they 
couldnt explain why this wasnt visible on his bank statements.    
I appreciate Mr K is looking to be compensated for the gains that the investments might have 
made had the funds been invested in mid-March when he first tried to claim on the life 
assurance policy. But Im satisfied Old Mutual gave him a number of options which would 
have allowed him to make a claim and invest the money on behalf of the beneficiaries within 
a couple of weeks. I also note that Mr K first raised his concerns about whether the money 
would still be considered trust money once it was in his bank account in May 2019. At this 
point, Old Mutual replied that it would be fine but noted that a trustee bank account would 
help. So Mr K had plenty of time to open a trustee bank account between Old Mutuals 
recommendation in May 2019 and Mr Ks first attempt to claim the funds in March 2020.  
I can see that there were some instances where things didnt go as smoothly as they might 
have  there was a lack of clarity in the call on 15 May, and that led to Old Mutual looking to 
perform additional identification checks which ultimately werent needed. I can understand 
that this would have caused Mr K some inconvenience  but Im satisfied the £250 Old 
Mutual have offered for this is fair. The amount recognises the inconvenience of several 
phone calls and some unclear information, but is not intended to compensate for any 
financial loss.
As Ive explained above, Im not holding Old Mutual responsible for any financial loss. I 
appreciate the financial markets moved significantly during the period in question, but I dont 
think Old Mutual have acted unfairly on unreasonably in applying their policies and 
procedures to the trust.
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms complaint about Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or reject my 
decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman