DRN-1731255
 
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of his sister Miss R that a car Miss R acquired through a Hire 
Purchase Agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wasnt fit 
for purpose. Miss R would like to reject the car. And be compensated for the inconvenience.
What happened
 Mr R says Miss R took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS for a new car on 25 May 
2019. He says Miss R had to keep topping the oil up every month but has never had this 
problem with other cars. He says although the car has been looked at and tested several 
times, with no actual fault found, the problem persists.
He says Miss R has the inconvenience and added mileage of driving her car to and from the 
dealership to be looked at,
MBFS said that it arranged an independent inspection which found no fault with the car. Its 
technical team advised that within the first year or 15,000 miles usage the car needed time 
to bed in it didnt feel there were grounds to allow rejection.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. She found the dealership and independent 
inspector hadnt been able to find any fault with the car so she didnt feel there were 
sufficient grounds to allow the car to be rejected on grounds of unsatisfactory quality.
However she didnt believe Miss R had been made aware of the likely oil consumption in the 
first year of having the car. On this basis she recommended that MBFS pay Miss R £250 
compensation for the stress of believing she had a problem with the car and for the 
inconvenience of trips to get the car looked at.
Neither party accepted this view. MBFs didnt feel compensation was appropriate. It said 
Miss R had the use of a courtesy car. And it had taken every step possible to investigate the 
issue with the involvement of the retailer, MBFSs technical team and an independent 
inspector.
Mr R said it wasnt normal for a car to consume so much oil and despite the independent 
inspection he felt there was a fault.  .
He said the problem was still ongoing. Miss R had just got her car back on 21 January 2020 
but by 27 January 2020 after a further 487 miles the oil needed topping up again. He says 
the dealership advised to add a litre of oil which he did but on 1 February 2020 at a mileage 
of 10,800 the oil top up message came up again. Mr R sent in photos of the mileage, oil 
indicator message and text messages between himself and the dealership in support of what 
he said. He said the car had been booked in to be looked at again. But it was unreasonable 
to expect Miss R to continue to have the same problem.
Our investigator considered these points and changed her view. She upheld Miss Rs 
complaint. She felt Mr R provided credible evidence there was a problem with the car from 
shortly after Miss R got it. 
She recommended that MBFS:-
- Allow Miss R to reject the car and cancel the finance agreement
- Refund Miss Rs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
- Refund Miss R three of her monthly payments to reflect loss of use of the car whilst it 
was being investigated  and add 8% simple interest to this sum
- Pay Miss R £250 for the inconvenience
Miss R accepted this view but asked if she could have more than three of her monthly 
repayments refunded since she had asked to reject the car  some time ago. Our investigator 
considered this but didnt feel this was reasonable since Miss R had had use of the car.
MBFS didnt accept his view. It said a variety of technical experts and an independent 
inspector found no fault with the car. The overall conclusion was that the car needed either a 
year or 15,000 miles to be driven for the car to be bedded in at which point the oil 
consumption would lower.
It felt the level of oil consumption was not unreasonable for the mileage covered. And the 
photographic evidence provided showed the car at operating temperature but said the oil 
would need to have cooled to get an accurate reading.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view. She felt it was 
unreasonable to expect the oil to be topped up so regularly despite the technical view that 
there was no fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. If problem arise within the first six 
months we usually say its the business responsibility to show if any issues were present or 
developing at the point of sale. And if so we would usually expect the business to address 
these. Miss R took out her agreement on 25 May 2019 and first seems to have raised the oil 
consumption issue on 5 August 2019 so within six months of having the car.
In this case I think MBFS has, as it has said, not just relied on the dealership or its own 
technical experts but also arranged this independent inspection. I appreciate none of the 
extensive testing it arranged found any particular fault. The one conclusion seemed to be 
that the car would settle down after either its first year of after having been driven 15,000 
miles.
Miss R has now had the car for over a year but I dont believe she has completed 15,000 
miles yet. So it maybe that when she does the car will settle down and the problem will be 
resolved. 
I havent seen any evidence that was Miss R was ever told the car would need a period of 
time to bed in when she got the car. And I am conscious Miss Rs agreement was for a new 
car. So I think she could reasonably expect it to be fault free for some time  more so than 
for example if her agreement had been for a used car with significant mileage already 
completed.Since our investigator sent her first view Mr R has kept in touch with us. It seems the oil 
issue has continued. He has given us copies of texts from the dealership which express 
surprise that the oil needed topping up again a few days after Miss R got her car back in 
January 2020. After adding a litre of oil the same problem arose again on 1 February 2020 
so the dealership asked Miss R to take her car back in.
Mr R then told us he was asked to drive 600 miles in the car and then take the car back to 
be inspected again which he did so. He told us the result of that visit was that the car was 
assessed as using the right amount of oil.
Mr R then told us that after driving only 372 miles the same issue arose.
Its very difficult when technical investigations show no problem but the problem, as in this 
case, seems to persist. I am mindful Miss R took out an agreement for a new car. And as 
such I think she could have expected it to be fault free for some time. 
The only possible reason given for the oil consumption is that the car needed a year or 
15,000 miles to bed in. I have seen no evidence Miss R was advised of that. She has now 
had the car for over a year but the problem is still continuing. So even though the technical 
reports have not found a particular fault I am persuaded there is an issue with the oil 
consumption in Miss Rs car that was present within six months of her having the car.  
On this basis I think its reasonable to allow Miss R to reject her car. I also think its 
reasonable to refund three of her monthly payments and to pay her £250 compensation for 
the inconvenience. From the information I have been given its clear Miss R has had to take 
her car in to be investigated multiple times and although I appreciate she has had the use of 
a courtesy car thats not the same as using the car she was paying for.
Mr R has also told us of further issues with the car with the car cutting out and a message 
about a restraint system malfunction in connection with the airbag deployment.  However as 
I have decided to uphold Miss Rs complaint on the basis of a problem with the oil 
consumption I dont think I need to go into these other issues as they would not change my 
view.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should:-
- Allow Miss R to reject the car, cancel the finance agreement and ensure no adverse 
information relating to this agreement is shown on Miss Rs credit file.
- Refund Miss Rs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
- Refund Miss R three of her monthly payments to reflect loss of use of the car whilst it 
was being investigated  and add 8% simple interest to this sum
- Pay Miss R £250 for the inconvenienceUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman