DRN-1934269
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how Aviva Health UK Limited dealt with a claim against her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs L renewed her private medical insurance policy with Aviva. Her policy 
schedule showed that her 2019 policy included the trust hospital list and an excess of £500. 
In July 2019, Mrs L needed shoulder surgery and made a claim against her policy. The 
operation didnt go ahead as planned, as Mrs L was admitted to hospital. 
In September 2019, Mrs L asked about upgrading her policy so that she could use another 
hospital, but Aviva didnt agree to that request, as her claim was already underway. 
I understand that Mrs L had surgery in December 2019 at a hospital on her trust hospital list 
and continuing treatment into 2020.
Mrs L complains that:
Shes suffered long delays in treatment, even though she has private medical cover, 
as her nearest trust hospital doesnt give priority to private patients.
It isnt clear from the policy terms that Avivas reference to trust hospitals refers to 
NHS trust hospitals and that she wouldnt get priority care as a private patient.
Aviva didnt agree to upgrade her policy.
Aviva charged her the excess twice.
Mrs L wants a refund of the second excess due under the policy, an upgrade to her policy at 
renewal and a refund of her annual premium. She also wants Aviva to make its terms 
clearer. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and thought that Aviva had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions. The investigator said:
Aviva gave Mrs L the option of a hospital not on her trust hospital list and said it 
would pay the average cost of equivalent treatment across all hospitals on the trust 
list, with Mrs L making up the shortfall. 
As Mrs Ls treatment continued into a second policy year, a second excess was 
payable under the terms of the policy. 
Aviva wasnt responsible for any delays in Mrs Ls treatment.
Aviva wasnt required to upgrade Mrs Ls hospital list mid-term.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She said:
The crux of her complaint is that the policy terms are neither clear nor complete. The 
terms dont say that many of the trust hospitals are NHS hospitals.
She was aware that her surgery needed to be at a hospital on her trust hospital list 
but didnt know that private patients using that hospital come last, not first. 
If she had known the true position, she wouldnt have changed her policy to the trust 
hospital list. 
Aviva said that she couldnt upgrade her policy even at renewal without having a 
moratorium on all health conditions. 
The investigator considered what Mrs L said but didnt change her view. There were further 
exchanges between Mrs L and the investigator which I wont set out here. Mrs L asked that 
an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me. 
As the investigator has explained, this service isnt the regulator, so I cant direct Aviva 
generally about how it conducts its business, but I can look at whether its treated Mrs L in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions and fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs L has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed submissions to support her complaint, which I have read and 
considered. However, I trust that she will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on 
what I consider the central issues.      
I dont think that Aviva treated Mrs L unfairly and Ill explain why:
Aviva isnt responsible for the difficulty Mrs L had in getting her surgery scheduled. It 
cant control theatre availability or how the hospital prioritises patients. 
Ive looked carefully at the information Aviva made available to Mrs L on renewal and 
I think that it was clear. In December 2018, it wrote to Mrs L and included links to the 
insurance product information document, renewal brochure and terms and 
conditions. Mrs L says that this service cant know what policy documents she 
received or whether she had working internet. But Avivas letter to Mrs L said that 
she was set up to receive her documents digitally and gave her instructions how to 
change her preferences and print the documents. I think Aviva provided sufficient 
information to Mrs L about the policy terms. In particular, the renewal brochure says that The Trust hospital list includes mainly 
private patient units of NHS Trust and Partnership hospitals. It also contained a 
link to Avivas hospital lists, which also refers to NHS hospitals under the heading 
Trust Hospital List.  I dont think Aviva was required to set out details of how 
hospitals may prioritise patients. 
Aviva isnt obliged to agree to an upgrade of Mrs Ls policy mid-term and, at renewal, 
is entitled to take into account what it knows about Mrs Ls previous claims. 
The terms of the policy say that the excess is applied each policy year and says that 
if a claim or course of treatment continues from one policy year to the next, the 
excess will apply again. So, I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly in asking Mrs L to 
pay the excess under the policy in two consecutive years.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but there are no grounds to direct Aviva to refund the second 
excess due under the policy, upgrade her policy at renewal or refund her annual premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman