DRN-3671899
The complaint
Mr S complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for two cash 
withdrawals which he said the cash machine didnt dispense.
What happened
At 10:24 on 16 October 2021, Mr S used a cash machine to withdraw £300 from his Barclays 
account. 
At 9.05 on 17 October, he used a different cash machine to withdraw £250.
On 18 November, Mr S contacted Barclays. He said hed waited at the machines but on both 
occasions the machines had returned his card, but hadnt dispensed his money. The money 
had been debited from his account. 
The cash machines were owned by different organisations, so Barclays contacted the 
machine providers to obtain the machine records. Both machine providers rejected the 
claims, and on 29 December, Barclays wrote to Mr S to say that it had heard back from the 
banks which owned the machines, and those banks had rejected Mr Ss claims. Barclays 
told Mr S that he could contact the other banks himself if he wanted more information.
Mr S complained. In its final response letter on 27 January, Barclays repeated that if he had 
any disputes about the withdrawals, hed have to raise it with those banks. It said that it had 
no evidence that Barclays had been at fault, or hadnt followed processes correctly, so it 
didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he wasnt happy with Barclays 
procedures and didnt believe it had carried out the right procedures. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that the first machine provider had 
shown that the £300 was dispensed, and the second machine provider had shown that there 
werent surplus funds of £250 when the machine was balanced. So she said the evidence 
indicated that all the funds had been dispensed and taken.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he wanted the case reconsidered. He said he understood that the 
machine would show a surplus if the cash hadnt dispensed. But the technology could have 
had an error on the day. He also asked if CCTV could provide evidence that the machine 
didnt dispense any cash. 
Mr Ss complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key evidence here is the computer records from both cash machines, called journal 
rolls:
- The journal roll for the machine Mr S used on 16 October shows that Mr Ss card was 
entered at 10:24, and that £300 was successfully dispensed, in 15 x £20 notes. After 
the notes were dispensed, Mr Ss card was returned. 
- The journal roll for the machine Mr S used on 17 October was owned by a different 
group, so the layout of the record is different. That too shows that the money, for 
£250 this time, was successfully dispensed. The record for that machine also shows 
that the machine also dispensed a receipt as well as the money.
Mr S has suggested that the technology could have made an error on the day. I consider 
thats unlikely. If the machine had had an error, that would show on the records. It wouldnt 
show as dispensed, with full details eg of the notes dispensed, if the machine had broken 
down. The records also show successful transactions for other customers, both before and 
after Mr Ss transaction.
Ive particularly borne in mind that although the disputed transactions took place on 16 and 
17 October, Mr S didnt raise a dispute with Barclays until 18 November. I find its most 
unlikely that anyone who had lost a total of £550 in this way wouldnt have reported the loss 
for over a month.
It would also be too much of a coincidence for two different machines, owned by different 
providers, to break down in exactly the same way, when Mr S was using them on 
consecutive days.
Mr S has asked whether CCTV would show that the money didnt dispense. I havent seen 
any record that Mr S asked for this before  and CCTV is deleted after a certain length of 
time, so it would no longer be available. In any case, its very unlikely that CCTV would show 
clearly what Mr S claims. Any camera behind the person at the machine, for instance, would 
only show the back of the person, not the machine slots. Even if the camera did show the 
keyboard and machine slot, it wouldnt also show the person who collected the money. 
For the reasons set out above, I consider its more likely than not that both disputed 
withdrawals were successfully dispensed, and that Mr S collected the cash.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman