DRN-3754159
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr G made a claim on his home insurance policy as his profile garage 
roof was unfortunately damaged during a storm.
To investigate the claim, Covea arranged for a buildings assessor to inspect the damage 
and complete a report. The assessor concluded the storm had highlighted pre-existing 
problems with the garage. Specifically, he said when the roof sheets had been replaced two 
years prior, the fittings were not sufficient to hold the sheets to the frame. He also said the 
block work was in a poor condition and provided photographs to support his findings.
Covea then declined the claim. In doing so, they referred to the assessors conclusions 
about the cause of the damage and said a policy exclusion relating to maintenance and wear 
and tear applied.
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said the wind speeds were particularly severe when the 
damage occurred, and he wasnt to know the roof fittings werent appropriate as he isnt a 
buildings expert. His position remained the same, after Covea responded to his concerns as  
a formal complaint.
An investigator at this service then considered the matter. She empathised with Mr G but 
after carefully reviewing the assessors findings, said Covea had acted fairly by relying on 
the policy exclusion to decline the claim. The storm didnt appear to be the main cause of the 
damage and the policy doesnt provide cover for maintenance issues or wear and tear.
Mr G then requested a final decision. In summary, he said lots of properties in his local area 
had experienced severe damage due to the storm conditions. He also repeated his 
comments about his knowledge of roof fittings. 
The investigators opinion remained the same, so Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the damage can 
be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is 
able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. As such, although Mr G has a home 
insurance policy, this doesnt mean every claim he attempts to make will be successful. 
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I must ask three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was 
caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a 
storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to conclude 
that a storm claim was declined unfairly. Where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the 
policy to decline a claim (as Covea have done here) the onus is on them to show the 
exclusion applies. 
Im satisfied Mr Gs claim meets the requirements of questions one and two. As weather 
reports show his property was subjected to high wind speeds ( 59mph) at the time of the 
reported damage and this reasonably constitutes a dry storm. I also think the roof damage    
Mr G reported is typical of damage caused by such weather.
I've therefore focussed on the third question which is currently in dispute. As Mr G is aware, 
Covea have said the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage and have relied on the 
following policy exclusion: 
Please note that this home insurance policy is designed to insure your home against 
loss or damage. It does not cover the maintenance of your home. That means your 
insurer will not cover the cost of wear and tear or maintenance costs such as 
defective rendering, repointing chimneys or general roof maintenance.
The policy also explains that you should keep your property in good repair and take 
reasonable steps to avoid loss or damage.
Ive carefully considered the report Covea have relied on. I note that as part of his 
inspection, the assessor took several photographs of the garage which suggest it was in an 
overall poor condition, before reaching the following conclusion:
The point of the claim is the garage roof the roof sheets was replaced 2 years ago, 
the roofs has been lifted a closer inspection of the fixing of the profile sheets to the 
old metal frame are not sufficient to hold the roof sheet during high winds and the 
high winds have highlighted the poor construction of the garage roof. There is 
damage to the block works to however this is also failing so no cover to it.
As the report was completed by a suitably qualified expert, Im satisfied Covea acted 
reasonably by relying on it. 
Considering the above, while I agree with Mr G that its likely the strong winds contributed to 
the reason his roof became damaged, Im also satisfied Covea have shown it wasnt likely to 
have been the main cause. As it appears the roof may have been able to withstand the 
storm, if the garage had been in a better overall condition and the roof sheets securely fitted. 
Mr G has said the claim should be settled as he didnt know the roof fittings were unsuitable. 
I empathise with his position, but as the owner of the property, it was ultimately his 
responsibility to make sure the garage was in a good condition and suitably maintained. So, 
while I appreciate this decision leaves Mr G in a difficult financial position, I see no grounds 
for concluding Covea acted unfairly by relying on the above policy exclusion and declining 
the claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman