DRN-3513633
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about her car insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She 
feels it unreasonably delayed in giving an answer on her claim and that its ultimate decline of 
the claim was unfair.
What happened
In May 2020, a road traffic accident occurred near Mrs Ds home, to which the police 
attended. Mrs D spoke to Advantage about the incident the following day. She told 
Advantage that, after she had sustained a head injury, she had driven her car and crashed 
into at least one other vehicle. She said the police had breathalysed her, finding her to be 
over the limit (for alcohol). Around a week later Mrs D told Advantage she couldnt remember 
much before the car accident. She later told Advantage she hadnt been driving her car at 
that time and she didnt know what the police were going to do. 
Advantage told Mrs D that it would need to know the outcome of the police enquiries before 
it could progress her claim. The police did charge Mrs D with drink driving. However, the 
crown prosecution service later discontinued the case against Mrs D. Mrs D told Advantage 
this, believing this would mean it would now settle her claim. However, Advantage said it 
needed to see the police reports from the time of the incident. Mrs D felt that was unfair and 
complained. But she later signed the forms necessary to allow this enquiry to progress.
When Advantage received the police report it reviewed the claim. It then wrote to Mrs D 
stating it would not be paying her claim. It referred to a general exception on the policy which 
states there is no cover for a driver where an accident happens whilst they are over the legal 
limit for alcohol or otherwise unfit to drive due to alcohol. Mrs D felt this was unfair she 
thought the discontinuance meant shed been exonerated. She felt it was unfair for 
Advantage to still treat her as having done something wrong when she hadnt been 
prosecuted for or found guilty of the criminal offence of drink driving.
Our investigator noted Mrs D had spoken to Advantage in the days after the accident. She 
felt both Advantages request to see, and reliance upon, the police report had been 
reasonable. She explained that Advantage, and the crown prosecution service in criminal 
proceedings, work to different standards of proof. She didnt think Advantage had done 
anything wrong. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs D said the end of the court case should have resolved everything. Mrs D said the police 
hadnt found any alcohol in her home and there was no proof she was breathalysed, 
although someone else may have been with damaged equipment. She said it was shocking 
to think that an insurance company can convict a policyholder without any judicial 
proceedings taking place which English law requires. Mrs D referred to a police investigation 
which confirmed no communication had taken place between Advantage and the police  
other than that confirmation had been given of the discontinuance. She feels that the 
decision to discontinue the court proceedings must therefore, on balance, outweigh any 
unofficial communications that have occurred between the police and Advantage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for any further upset this causes Mrs D, Im not upholding 
her complaint. Like our investigator, I dont think Advantage has done anything wrong. I do 
understand how important this is to Mrs D and that she feels she has been let down and 
poorly treated by the police and Advantage. Also that complaints have been made against 
the police in relation to this incident. And I understand that Mrs D was not found guilty in 
criminal proceedings of any drink driving charge. However, my focus must fall on whether, 
given the evidence it had to hand, Advantage acted fairly and reasonably in relation to 
Mrs Ds claim under her policy. Both in its handling of it (in respect of what evidence it 
wanted to see) and its ultimate decision to decline it.
I know Mrs D thinks its unfair for Advantage to decide her claim without any court case 
having taken place. But Mrs D and Advantage are participants to a contract of insurance. 
This means they can both act in respect of the contract  Advantage doesnt have to take 
Mrs D to court. And Advantages contract decision turns on the wording of its policy.
In respect of some insurance policy issues whether or not a policyholder has been convicted 
of a criminal offence might be relevant. But here the general exception Advantage has relied 
upon doesnt says claims will not be covered if a driver involved in an accident is found guilty 
of a criminal offence of drink driving. The term says: 
Your Policy doesnt cover the following: []
4. Alcohol and drugs
Youre not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive under
your current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
 Is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol in the country where the incident
happens
 Is driving while unfit through alcohol, drugs or other substances, whether prescribed
or not
 Doesnt provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without lawful
reason.
And because this is a contract issue, Advantage only has to show, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Mrs D was most likely beyond the legal alcohol limit or otherwise unfit to 
drive due to alcohol.
The balance of probabilities (what is most likely to have happened) is a legal term used in 
civil disputes such as those which arise over insurance claims. It is a lower standard than the 
level which applies in criminal proceedings, such as those which were discontinued against 
Mrs D for the criminal charge of drink driving. There the prosecution would have to show 
beyond reasonable doubt what happened (what almost certainly did occur). 
So, whilst I understand how important it was for Mrs D when the criminal case against her 
was discontinued, I also understand why Advantage didnt feel that meant it should 
immediately and reasonably move to settling the claim. Whilst to Mrs D the discontinuance 
made the situation much clearer, for Advantage it left things open. In short this meant that 
what had most likely happened still needed to be decided.
In that respect Advantage reviewed what it knew to that date and noted there were some 
differences in the reports of the incident that Mrs D had given to it. So it felt it would be 
important to view the police report before making any decision about what most likely had happened. I can see from the call notes Advantage made when Mrs D called it the day after 
the incident that she seemed, at that time, to have a relatively good recall of some key 
events which occurred prior to the incident. But that this changed over the following weeks. 
And I note Mrs D has put much of this down to the head injury she had suffered. In the 
circumstances, bearing in mind that a police report is usually seen as a reliable, independent 
record of events, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to want to see it.
The police report was provided to Advantage. It contained the following data:
Mrs D was suspected of consuming alcohol and then driving her car.
She failed a roadside breath test.
Whilst in custody Mrs D failed two more breath tests.
An independent witness saw Mrs D driving her car and causing damage.
Mrs D said she cant remember what happened, but cant have been drinking as she 
would have remembered doing that.
Mrs D agreed that the car which caused the damage is hers. She confirmed that she is 
the only female with access to drive it.
Mrs D said the only details she knows are what others have told her.
When given details of the description of the driver detailed by the independent witness, 
Mrs D stated that was very likely me.
Advantages file shows that it was on the basis of the content of this report that it felt the 
claim should be declined. I think, on the face of it, that was a fair and reasonable decision. 
The detail provided in the report is clear and I can understand why Advantage felt, having 
seen that detail, it was most likely that Mrs D had driven whilst beyond the legal limit for, or 
otherwise being impaired by, alcohol. Only if there was some good reason to think the 
content was unreliable or the findings were flawed in some way could I say Advantage had 
acted unfairly and unreasonably by taking the content at face value. 
I know Mrs D has felt let down by the police and their investigation. I know Mrs Ds concerns 
go deeper than my phrasing here might suggest. But I can assure Mrs D that I understand 
the seriousness of the allegations made against the police and my summarising of this, in 
this way, is not meant to understate or undermine that. However, Ive not seen anything 
persuasive  such as the findings of any formal enquiry, that give me cause to think that the 
content of the police report is either unreliable or flawed. 
Similarly, Ive considered Mrs Ds account of her head injury, along with her explanation 
about how she suffered as a result of this. But I havent seen anything  such as a medical 
report, that makes me think Mrs D acted as she did and said what she said only on account 
of her head injury. So, Im not persuaded that the police report is likely unreliable or flawed in 
this respect either. Not least because whilst a head injury might affect someones speech  
how, as well as, what they say  and the way they act, it wouldnt affect the results gained by 
a breathalyser test.  
So, Im satisfied that theres no good cause to make me think Advantage cant fairly and 
reasonably rely on the content of the police report. That content caused Advantage to 
decline the claim on the basis of the policy exception Ive mentioned above. In the 
circumstances here, and with regret for the effect my findings will likely have on Mrs D, Im 
satisfied that Advantages decline was fair and reasonable. 
I know Mrs D has concerns about the way in which Advantage has handled her personal 
data. As our investigator has explained, those concerns are best addressed to the 
Information Commissioners Office.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman