DRN-3689790
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
Miss S opened a credit card account with Halifax in June 2015. The initial credit limit was 
£1,000. In September 2016 it was increased to £2,000. Thereafter, her credit limit was 
increased a further four times until in April 2020 it was £4,500.
Miss S says that Halifax acted irresponsibly by providing her with the credit card and when it 
increased her limit. She says if Halifax had done adequate checks on her situation it would 
have seen that she wouldnt be able to repay her balance in a reasonable length of time. 
She says she was too young and a health condition which contributed to the financial stress 
of making repayments had yet to be diagnosed.
Halifax says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Miss S and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Miss S  and when it increased her credit limit. 
This service couldnt consider the complaint about the initial account opening because it was 
made too late under the time limits we have to apply. But I am able to look at the credit limit 
increases made in the six years preceding Miss Ss original complaint to Halifax. 
Our investigator thought that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld from the point at which 
her credit limit was increased from £2,000 to £2,500 in March 2018. She thought that there 
was sufficient evidence available to Halifax at that point for it to understand that Miss S was 
in a poor financial position and unlikely to be able to sustainably repay any more borrowing.
 
Halifax agreed to this. It provided a figure for compensation in line with that our adjudicator 
had suggested as a suitable settlement. Miss S did not agree with this and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.  Miss S didnt explain what she thought was wrong 
about the decision, so I have reviewed the entire complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Ss complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with our adjudicators view. That view was provided to both parties and is 
extremely comprehensive. 
Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include things 
like understanding Miss Ss income, the total amount Miss S borrowed, and the length of 
time Miss S had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Halifax says it completed credit reference checks at the point of making the first credit limit 
increase in September 2016. It also had information from Miss Ss bank accounts which she 
held with Halifax. It says these didnt show any issues. 
Halifax has provided the outcome of these checks and I can see that in September 2016 
Miss T had a calculated monthly disposable income of around £530. Her unsecured credit 
commitments elsewhere each month were low at around £15. Miss S didnt have any 
defaults, arrears or CCJs on her credit file and had been managing her credit card account 
well. In light of this information I think Halifax did reasonable checks and acted fairly on the 
results of those checks. I dont think there was anything to suggest the increase in the credit 
limit would be unaffordable for Miss S. 
Halifax relied on some assumptions about Miss Ss expenses. This is quite standard in the 
industry. Halifax and Miss S provided copies of her bank statements at the time and I can 
see that her monthly disposable income was rather lower than that identified by Halifaxs 
checks, but at £280 a month I still think the repayments on her credit card would have been 
affordable at that time. 
Miss S has indicated that she had health difficulties, some undiagnosed at that point, which 
might have affected her ability to manage her finances appropriately. Miss S has my 
sympathy, but I cannot see that she contacted Halifax at any point to discuss any health 
difficulties, so Halifax cant have been expected to know she may need additional support. 
Similarly, Miss S has indicated that she asked twice for her credit limit not to be increased, 
but I havent seen any evidence of this from the notes Halifax has supplied or from anything 
else that Miss S has provided. So, I think Halifaxs decision to increase Miss Ss credit limit 
in September 2016 was fair and reasonable. 
By the time of the second credit limit increase, Miss Ss circumstances had changed. The 
results of Halifaxs checks indicated that her monthly disposable income was significantly 
lower  less that half of her previous disposable income. And her monthly income from 
employment had decreased significantly, too. Miss Ss income had reduced by around 20%. 
I think at this point Halifax should have asked Miss S about her income and expenditure to 
establish whether the increase was affordable for her. 
Having reviewed Miss Ss bank statements for the three months before that credit limit 
increase I can see that her outgoings were exceeding her income. So, I dont think Halifax 
should have increased Miss Ss credit limit from this point because I dont think Miss S would 
have been able to sustainably repay any more credit.Halifax has agreed with this, so I do not think I need to go into any more detail about this. I 
think Miss S lost out as a result of what Halifax did wrong. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Halifax should have increased Miss Ss credit limit from £2,000, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Miss S has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think 
she should pay this back. Therefore, Halifax should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £2,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss S along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Halifax should also remove all adverse information recorded 
from March 2018** regarding this account from Miss Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £2,000, Halifax should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss S for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
March 2018** in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
If Halifax has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
** In the original adjudication this date was given as September 2016. This was incorrect; it should be from the 
point at which Miss Ss credit limit was increased unfairly, which is when it was increased to £2,500 in March 
2018. However, this makes no material difference as Halifax has confirmed that no adverse information was 
recorded until October 2021 when Miss S stopped making repayments to her credit card. 
My final decision
I uphold in part Miss Ss complaint about unaffordable lending from the point of the credit 
limit increase in March 2018. I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman