DRN-3394209
The complaint
Mrs R is complaining that EUI Limited didnt make it clear she was taking out a fixed sum 
loan agreement to finance an annual insurance premium.
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs R took out a car insurance policy through EUI  a broker. The policy was 
an annual insurance policy that required the annual premium to be paid up front. Mrs R 
wanted to pay for the policy monthly. To facilitate this, EUI arranged for her to take out a 
fixed sum loan agreement. It was also the finance provider. It paid the premium to the 
insurer and Mrs R was to repay the amount it paid under the terms of the finance agreement.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs R noticed the agreement on her credit file and reviewed her policy 
documents again and noticed the finance agreement. She cancelled the insurance policy, 
but had to pay a cancellation fee to do so. She says she wasnt aware she was taking out 
this finance agreement and she says it meant she couldnt proceed with her mortgage 
application. 
Mrs R complained to EUI. She said that shed never previously had to take out a finance 
agreement to pay for her policy in the last 18 years of taking out insurance. She doesnt 
believe EUI made it clear she was taking out a finance agreement and she says she 
wouldnt have taken it out had it done so. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said EUI had demonstrated that, as part of 
the sales process, Mrs R had to tick a box to confirm I agree to the Direct Debit terms and 
conditions and accept the Pre Contract Credit Information (PCCI). The investigator said 
Mrs R couldnt proceed with taking out the insurance policy without ticking this box. And she 
was satisfied this document made it clear Mrs R was taking out a finance agreement. So she 
thought EUI had taken reasonable steps to explain Mrs R was taking out a finance 
agreement.
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators opinion for the following reasons:
She doesnt remember ticking the box to say she was taking out a finance agreement;
She queried the validity of EUIs statement as she says it told her that it doesnt send a 
PCCI until after the policy is taken out;
She said shed spoken with EUI whose employees didnt know people took out loans to 
pay for an annual premium;
She doesnt think the PCCI makes it clear that she was taking out a finance agreement; 
and
She doesnt think its common practice for finance agreements to be added to a credit file 
when taking out an insurance policy. 
She maintains EUI has treated unfairly and shes lost out as a result.
As Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mrs Rs complaint in a lot less detail 
than she has presented it. Mrs R has raised a number of reasons about why shes unhappy 
with the way Sainsburys has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every 
point shes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to 
think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature 
of this service. I assure Mrs R, however, that I have read and considered everything shes 
provided.
I recognise Mrs R has said shes never had to take out a finance agreement before to 
finance an annual premium. But its relatively common practice now for a consumer to take 
out a finance agreement to enable them to pay annual premium in monthly instalments. 
However, when arranging a finance agreement, the finance provider needs to ensure the 
consumer is given sufficient information to make an informed decision  including making it 
clear that they are taking out a finance agreement. Mrs R doesnt think EUI did so, however 
Im satisfied it did do so.
Mrs R initially applied for the insurance policy through an online comparison website. EUI 
hasnt provided the initial page where the comparison website explains the finance 
agreement. However, from previous experience I think its likely it did explain that Mrs R 
would be taking out a finance agreement to pay the annual premium in monthly installments. 
However, even if it didnt, EUI has shown that Mrs R would have had to tick a box to confirm 
shed read the PCCI. And this document clearly sets out that she was taking out a fixed sum 
loan agreement. I recognise Mrs R says she doesnt remember ticking the box, but she 
wouldnt have been able to proceed with the application unless she ticked it. So Im satisfied 
she did tick it. 
Mrs R has queried the validity of the evidence EUI has provided because she says it told her 
it only sent the PCCI once the policy had started. EUI would have only sent Mrs R an actual 
copy of all the finance documents  including the PCCI  after the policy started. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied she was given an option to review them before the 
policy started and had to confirm shed done so. I cant hold EUI responsible if she chose to 
not read the document.
I appreciate Mrs R has found this matter distressing and feels shes lost out. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I cant hold EUI responsible for this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman