DRN-2812186
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled claims made 
under their buildings insurance policy. Any references to UKI include its agents. 
What happened
In early 2020 Mr B and Ms M notified their insurer theyd noticed ground movement at the 
rear of their property. They said UKI told them they needed to arrange their own expert to 
carry out an assessment of the property. Mr B and Ms M instructed a company to so and in 
May 2020 they had the findings. Their expert said works needed to be carried out to stabilise 
the ground and there was evidence of a re-activated historical landslide. 
Concerned by what they said was further ground movement following two storms, Mr B and 
Ms M contacted UKI. UKI arranged for its engineer to visit the property. UKIs engineer 
recommended the claim was declined. They said while there was damage to the ground, 
there wasnt any damage to the property itself, so the damage to the ground wasnt covered. 
Mr B and Ms M complained to UKI. In September 2020, UKI issued its final response to their 
complaint. It reiterated its experts conclusion the cause of the damage was as a result of the 
destabilisation of the rear landscaped area of the garden. It said there was no damage to the 
property that appeared to be as a result of subsidence or landslip. It said as there was no 
damage to their property, the claim couldnt be considered under this clause. 
UKI also considered if the claim could be considered under the storm clause. But it said 
there was no indication the level of rainfall would have caused the damage identified. It said 
the slip appeared to have been caused by long standing river erosion and over burden of the 
embankment. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B and Ms M referred their complaint to this service. It was considered 
by an investigator who said UKI didnt need to take any further action. As Mr B and Ms M 
didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been a number of issues raised throughout this complaint. In reaching my 
decision, Ive focused on the points I consider are key to a fair and reasonable outcome, and 
Ive done so using the headings below. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either side, 
rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it. However, I will say in 
reaching my decision, Im satisfied both sides have had sight of the information I consider 
material to the outcome Ive reached. 
Landslip
UKI have referenced the landslip clause in Mr B and Ms Ms policy to decline the claim. The 
clause theyve relied on is below:
Subsidence or heave of the site on which your home stands, or landslip
This includes cover for:
 solid floor slabs, but only if your homes foundations are damaged at the same time 
and by the same cause
 outdoor swimming pools, tennis courts, patios, terraces, service tanks, drains, 
septic tanks, pipes and cables, central heating fuel storage tanks, drives, footpaths, 
garden walls, hedges, gates or fences  but only if your home is damaged at the 
same time and by the same cause.
Mr B says the Gabion baskets are integral part of the foundations integrity and these have 
been damaged by the landslip. This is supported by a letter from a structural engineer who 
inspected the property in June 2021. The engineer stated the Gabion baskets had been 
designed in 2016 to further support the foundations design in allowing a standard strip 
foundation. As these Gabion baskets had been impacted by the landslip, they were no 
longer performing their original function.
 
UKI said this this particular report supported its conclusion to decline the claim. This is 
because while it acknowledged the need for some ground stabilisation works to be carried 
out, the intention of this was to prevent the probably movement that will occur at some point 
to the dwelling. I think it is reasonable to suggest that had the property been impacted by 
the landslip, this would have been specifically noted in the three reports. I find this comment 
to be persuasive in supporting UKIs position that the property has not suffered any 
movement as a result of the landslip. However, the report from UKIs engineer noted the 
Gabion baskets formed a provision to stabilise and retain the upper landscaped area. UKI 
has concluded that the Gabion baskets are not part of the foundations, as Mr B argues. 
I dont doubt this is a very worrying time for Mr B and Ms M. However, the policy terms in 
respect of making a claim under the landslip clause are clear. A claim can only be 
considered if there is damage to the main dwelling at the same time the wider damage is 
identified, and by the same cause. Im satisfied the finding from the report from the 
independent engineer instructed by Mr B and Ms M and the findings of UKIs engineer were 
that the property foundations hadnt been damaged up to the point of UKI issued its final 
response letter.  
The report instructed by Mr B and Ms M specifically said: as the house itself is (currently) 
undamaged. This report went on to acknowledge that the foundations were at risk of 
damage. However, the overarching conclusion of the three independent reports is that Mr B 
and Ms Ms home was not damaged at the same time as the landslip occurred. 
Mr B and Ms M say the insurers visits have failed to acknowledge the integrity of the 
foundations have been compromised, and by this they mean the Gabion baskets. But I dont 
agree this is the case. Its clear UKI considered carefully the findings of Mr B and Ms Ms 
own engineer as well as their own expert. But neither of these experts concluded there had 
been movement and damage to the foundations of their property at the same time  as set 
out in the policy. 
UKI has also considered the report provided in the summer of 2021. The first report provided 
by Mr B, dated 2 July, states the Gabion baskets have all been damaged or moved by the 
land slip and not performing their original function. However, it goes on to note that the 
property has not suffered any movement. The report provided by Mr B from March 2021 
noted the damage to the ground looked likely to have been caused by a prolonged period of 
wet weather. But this report did not make the finding the foundations of the house had been 
damaged. All of the reports provided indicate there has been significant damage to the garden. But 
they do not conclusively prove there has been any damage to the home, including the 
foundations, identified at the same time as the landslip occurred. UKI commented that the 
July 2021 report provided by Mr B specifically recommended a structural engineer be 
appointed to stabilise the ground to prevent the probable movement that will occur at some 
point to the dwelling. UKI has said it remains of the view that there hasnt been any 
evidence provided that shows the home was damaged at the same time as the damage to 
the ground. And having considered everything carefully, I think UKI is fairly applying the 
policy terms here. 
Ill turn now to the comments about river erosion. As our investigator said, the landslip 
damage to the slope at the rear of Mr B and Ms Ms home isnt covered. This is because at 
the time UKI considered their complaint about the decision to decline the claim there was no 
concurrent landslip damage to the home. I agree that UKIs interpretation of the engineer's 
findings and report, in that there doesnt seem to be a disagreement that the situation has 
been worsened by overloading of the top of the slope. The expert opinions are clear in 
identifying the underlying cause of the instability of the slope as a direct result of river 
erosion. 
As there is no evidence of concurrent damage to the home, it follows Im satisfied UKI has 
acted fairly in declining the claim under the subsidence and landslip clause. 
storm damage
When considering if an insurer has acted fairly in declining a claim under storm clause, wed 
consider the following three questions:
1. do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I understand Mr B and Ms M couldnt initially identify the exact date they first noticed the 
damage to the garden. In his most recent submission to this service, Mr B says he thought 
the most likely cause of the landslip was a storm that occurred in October 2019. Hes based 
this in part on a neighbours claim being accepted by a different household insurer. As our 
investigator said, were aware of various storm conditions in the United Kingdom between 
April 2019 and February 2020.  Mr B says he thinks the movement was likely to have 
impacted their property in December 2019. While the weather records show some high 
winds during December 2019, they dont show the level of rainfall wed usually expect to see 
to constitute storm conditions. On this basis, Im not persuaded that I could say for certain 
there were storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have occurred. 
Like our investigator, Im not persuaded that this claim should be considered under the storm 
clause for the same reasons as she reached. Despite their more recent submissions, Mr B 
and Ms M havent been able to identify a one-of storm event that caused the damage. Their 
policy doesnt provide cover for a series of events. Im also not persuaded the damage 
theyve reported is consistent with that wed expect to see caused by a storm, as it would be 
fairly unusual to see the impact of storm damage being ground movement. On this basis, Im 
not intending to require UKI to take any action under the storm clause of the policy.  
Mr B and Ms M have also complained about the handling of the claim. However, I dont 
agree that the decision to decline the claim means, in itself, that its been handled poorly. I can see there were occasions where some time passed between updates to Mr B and Ms M. 
Im sure this wasnt ideal for them given their concerns about the ground movement. 
However, I can see there were frequent discussions between the relevant parties, so I dont 
consider any of these delays to have been unreasonable or unavoidable. While I realise this 
wont be the answer Mr B and Ms M are hoping for, Im not going to recommend UKI take 
any action in respect of their complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman