DRN-3770341
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) declined to cover his
losses following an accident whilst driving abroad, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A was involved in a car accident whilst driving in Europe. His car was damaged, and he
says he and his wife were badly hurt. He made a claim to Mulsanne, but it didnt cover his
losses or compensate for their injuries.
In its response to Mr As complaint Mulsanne says its policy terms say he must inform his
insurer prior to driving abroad to ensure cover is in place. It says Mr A told it he had tried to
call but was unable to speak to someone. As he hadnt made contact to inform it that he
intended travelling abroad, Mulsanne says there was no comprehensive cover in place.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt
uphold his complaint. She thought the policy terms were clear that Mr A needed to notify his
insurance intermediary before his journey abroad. Because he didnt, she thought Mulsanne
had treated him fairly when relying on its policy terms and not providing comprehensive
cover whilst he was driving abroad.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr As policy terms to understand whats expected in these circumstances. The
terms under the heading Section 7  Foreign use of the insured vehicle say:
Compulsory Insurance (this legal minimum insurance does not include cover for loss of or
damage to your insured vehicle).
This policy provides the minimum level of cover in respect of liability which is legally
insurable in the country concerned at no additional charge. This legal minimum insurance
does not include cover for loss of or damage to the insured vehicle.
This cover is available while the insured vehicle is:
 in any country which is a member of the European Union (EU), Andorra, Gibraltar,
Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino, Vatican City, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland.
The terms also say:
Full Policy cover
In addition to the legal minimum cover shown above, this can be extended to provide the
cover shown in your schedule to any member country of the EU and also Andorra, Gibraltar,
Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino, Vatican City, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland provided
that:
 you notify your insurance intermediary before your journey abroad; and
 the use of the insured vehicle abroad is limited to no more than 30 days in any one trip and
60 days in total in any one period of insurance.
When he had his accident Mr A was driving in an EU country. This means he was
automatically provided with the minimum cover to drive his car under the compulsory
insurance. But in the event of an accident any damage to Mr As car isnt covered by the
compulsory insurance.
Mulsanne says it is only the compulsory cover that was in place, which is why it covered the
third partys losses but not Mr As.
The terms also say the full cover shown in Mr As schedule can be provided for driving in an
EU country provided that he informs his insurance intermediary. Ive read Mr As policy
schedule, which says he has comprehensive cover. This means his policy can also provide
comprehensive cover when driving in the EU.
I asked Mulsanne whether there was an additional cost for providing comprehensive cover
for Mr A to drive his car in the EU. I also asked what would happen if Mr A had notified it of
his intention to drive abroad.
Mulsanne responded to say there is no additional premium for Mr A to drive his car in an EU
country. It says this is as long as he complied with the policy condition and informed his
insurance intermediary of his intention to drive abroad. Mulsanne says All Mr [A] had to do
was let us know, but he didnt, so we abided by the policy terms.
I note Mr As comments that he tried to call but wasnt able to get through. He also says that
the term relied on by Mulsanne to decline his losses is on page 32 of the policy booklet,
which isnt prominently displayed.
The regulations that apply to this complaint are the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA)
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). The regulations say that its
unreasonable for an insurer to reject a claim for the breach of a condition unless the
circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach.
Ive thought about what this means for Mr As claim. Mulsanne confirms Mr As policy
provides him with comprehensive cover in the EU without any additional premium. So, to
decline the claim, its relied on the condition that Mr A didnt inform his insurance
intermediary of his intention to drive abroad.
Mulsanne hasnt shown that anything different would have happened, or that it was
prejudiced because Mr A hadnt informed it of his intention to drive in the EU. If for example,
he had exceeded the 60-day limit allowed by his policy for foreign driving, and not informed
Mulsanne of his intentions, I think this would mean the circumstances were connected to a
breach of the policy conditions. But in the circumstances described, I dont think it was fairfor Mulsanne to decline Mr As claim for losses under its comprehensive cover, simply
because it wasnt told he would be driving in an EU country.
Having considered all of this I dont think Mulsanne treated Mr A fairly when declining his
claim - by relying on its policy condition requiring prior notification of his intention to drive
abroad. It should now reconsider his claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy.
Ive also thought about Mr As comments that he and his wife were hurt in the accident but
have been unable to get compensation. This must have been a very upsetting and
frustrating experience for Mr A and his wife. To acknowledge the upset and frustration I think
its fair that Mulsanne pays £250 compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr As complaint and that Mulsanne should:
reconsider Mr As claim without reliance on the condition it used to decline payment
for his losses; and
pay Mr A £250 compensation for the upset and frustration he was caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mulsanne responded to say that it accepted the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Mr A also responded to say he accepted my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited 
should:
reconsider Mr As claim without reliance on the condition it used to decline payment
for his losses; and
pay Mr A £250 compensation for the upset and frustration he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman