DRN-4024159
The complaint
Mr Fs complained about the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) have settled the claim he made 
when he had a bicycle accident.
What happened
In early 2022 Mr F was involved in an accident while riding his bike.  His bike suffered 
significant damage.  The bike was insured with AWP.  So Mr F made a claim on his policy.  
Mr F had his bike shop assess what repairs were needed.  But AWP said they wanted their 
own assessment made.  So they arranged for the bike to be collected for their team to do 
that.  AWPs assessor identified a number of parts had to be replaced, because they couldnt 
safely be repaired.
During their assessment, AWP noted that, when he bought his policy, Mr F had said hed 
bought the bike for £4,500, when hed actually spent £5,216.97.  AWP said this meant Mr F 
was only insured for 86.26% of the claim.  And they couldnt replace the parts for the sum 
insured.  So they offered Mr F a cash settlement.
Mr F was unhappy that AWP wouldnt replace parts because their market value had 
increased and that funds had been absorbed by costs like shipping to AWPs assessors, 
which he thought were unnecessary.  
Mr F complained about these issues.  And he was unhappy that the bike was rebuilt with the 
wrong sized frame and about the settlement he received.   AWP responded that Mr F had 
underinsured his bike, so theyd applied the underinsurance clause in his policy to reduce 
the settlement.  And theyd relied on the evidence Mr F had provided to show how much hed 
paid for various parts to calculate the settlement theyd offered.
In addition, AWP said the policy is clear its up to them how to deal with the claim  including 
whether to have their own assessment of the bike.  And they said that their expert has 
identified faults which Mr Fs shop had overlooked.  In respect of the frame, they said theyd 
ordered the size which his receipts showed Mr F had had previously.
Mr F continued to negotiate with AWP over the following months, during which time his bike 
was rebuilt and returned to him.  He contributed £106.21 to the costs.  But Mr F wasnt 
happy because he had to pay his own shop £120 to complete the rebuild.  So he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Mr F told us he wanted those costs reimbursed, as well as compensation for the costs AWP 
had allocated to shipping, inspecting, and rebuilding his bike.  And he said he wanted £1,500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience AWPs handling of the claim had caused.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded AWP didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  She was satisfied that Mr F had underinsured his bike, and that, had he valued it 
accurately, a higher premium would have been due.  So she said it was fair for AWP to have 
reduced the amount of the settlement  which was what had resulted in Mr F having to 
contribute to costs.  And she was satisfied that AWP had relied on information supplied by 
Mr F to order a replacement frame  so she couldnt hold them responsible for this being 
wrong.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint.  But Im not directing AWP to do any more 
than theyve already offered to do to resolve his complaint.  Ill explain why.
Before I do that, I think I should clarify what my role is.  Mr F has made a number of 
comments which indicate he thinks AWP have been negligent and should change how they 
handle claims.  
I understand these comments stem from his dissatisfaction about how his claims been 
handled.  But its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to direct businesses to 
change policies or processes.  We consider whether a business has dealt with a particular 
customer fairly and in accordance with the relevant rules and the customers policy terms.
For that reason, Ive started by considering Mr Fs policy.  I can see Mr F gave the value as 
£4,500  which is the sum insured on the schedule  even though he provided receipts 
which show he paid more than that.  In response to the investigators view, Mr F said there 
was no clear guidance given and that hed deducted VAT from the figure hed declared.
I dont agree thats the case.  When Mr F bought the policy, he was advised to read all the 
information and check it was correct.  The policy document includes the following definition 
of Value:
This may defined by using one of the following circumstances. All values should be in GBP, 
inclusive of VAT: a) new or second hand pedal cycles should be insured at the price you 
paid, including the sum of any parts or upgrades which you purchased and which form part 
of your pedal cycle;
I think this definition is clear.  And the policy goes onto give examples of how a buyer should 
decide the value to declare.  The evidence shows Mr F gave a lower value for his bike than 
the receipts he provided show he paid.  So I think AWPs conclusion the bike had been 
underinsured was fair.
AWP calculated Mr F had declared 86.26% of the value of the bike.  So they used that as 
the basis of calculating his settlement.  I think thats fair.  And Im satisfied its most likely that 
the additional cost of the frame Mr F had to contribute was the result of the underinsurance.  
So its not reasonable to say AWP should refund that.
I also agree with our investigator that its not reasonable to hold AWP responsible for the 
replacement frame being the wrong size.  Mr F said it should have been a large, but AWP 
ordered a medium.  Ive thought about this.  But AWP ordered a replacement based on the 
details in the receipt Mr F provided.  That stated the frame size as medium.  Ive seen no 
evidence AWP were told the information on the receipt was wrong before they ordered.  So I 
dont think its fair to say they were responsible for the mistake.
Nor can I say it was unreasonable for AWP to choose to have the bike assessed by their 
own company, or that the cost of this shouldnt be incorporated into the claim costs.  Under 
the Claims section of the policy, it states:You must accept that we may appoint a specialist, including carbon restoration experts, to 
investigate, repair and restore any pedal cycle claim on our behalf.
Again, thats a clear policy term.  Its not reasonable for me to say AWP should have done 
something different.  I appreciate Mr F is unhappy about the costs this involved.  But insurers 
are entitled to assess a claim before paying it.  And there are inevitably costs which result 
from that.  AWP explained the need for specialist packaging and transportation for the bike.  
And there were labour costs involved in stripping it, as well as in reporting back to AWP.  Im 
not persuaded by anything Ive seen those costs were excessive.
Ive considered Mr Fs complaint that he had to get the bike rebuild completed and that cost 
him £120.  I can see why, at first sight, that might look unfair.  But AWP have said Mr F 
opted not to have all the repairs/replacement parts which their report said were needed 
done.  They completed all the work they could.  The cost Mr F incurred was to have his own 
shop complete work with parts AWP thought werent safe to use.  
I cant judge whether the parts were safe.  But I cant say AWP should have completed work 
using parts they didnt think were.  Mr F disagreed  as hes entitled to do.  But Im satisfied 
the cost he incurred in completing the rebuild was the consequence of his choice not to have 
all the parts replaced.  I cant say AWP were responsible for those.  
Ive seen AWP offered Mr F £50 compensation for a delay in extensions arriving.  I think this 
is a fair sum for this.  But I dont think they need to do any more than that to resolve Mr Fs 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint about AWP P&C SA and 
directing AWP to Mr F the £50 compensation theyve previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman