DRN-2138048
The complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr C says MYJAR didnt carry out 
sufficient affordability checks before it lent to him. He had short-term lending from other 
credit providers and the repayments were more than his monthly salary. Also, he was in a 
debt management plan at the time of the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr C between March and 
August 2018. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Monthly 
Repayment
1 20/03/2018 25/04/2018 12 £175.00 £26.09
2 25/04/2018 13/08/2018 12 £425.00 £64.57
3 15/08/2018 Outstanding 12 £350.00 £52.55
The second of our adjudicators who considered the complaint thought it should be partially 
upheld and thought the loans two and three shouldnt have been given because if MYJAR 
had carried out checks proportionate to the borrowing, or considered the information it did 
have, it would have seen Mr C was having problems managing his money. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicator about upholding loan two but did offer redress for 
loan three. We put the offer to Mr C, but he didnt accept it and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr C didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mr C had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other 
loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. After doings so, Ive decided to 
partially uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Mr C returned for further borrowing at loan two, it was the same day that loan one was 
repaid. And loan one had been repaid only a month after it had been taken out, compared to 
the term agreed at the outset of 12 months. Loan two was also for a 12-month term and the 
amount borrowed was nearly three times the amount borrowed at loan one.
This borrowing behaviour could have suggested that Mr C may have been having problems 
managing his money. Bearing in mind the nature of this type of credit, I think MYJAR should 
have questioned why a consumer would take out one loan for a 12-month term only to repay 
it a month later  much earlier than the agreed term  but then to replace it with a further 
loan on the same day for a much larger amount and the same term. 
I think at this point MYJAR should have been looking to build a bigger picture about Mr Cs 
financial circumstances. It could have sought further information and evidence from Mr C  such as, but not limited to, asking for copies of his pay slips, evidence of his outgoings by 
requesting copies of bills or bank statements  as examples. 
If it had done so, I think MYJAR would have seen that Mr C had at least three additional 
short-term loans with other credit providers outstanding at the time he applied for loan two. I 
think MYJAR would have concluded Mr C was having problems managing his money and 
there was a very real risk that he wouldnt be in the position to sustainably make the loan 
repayments. And this is one of Mr Cs complaint points, so I think its likely. 
And when Mr C applied for loan three  two days after he had repaid loan one  MYJARs 
own credit search report showed that Mr C wouldnt be able to afford the repayments in a 
sustainable manner. The search showed that Mr Cs estimated monthly credit repayment, 
along with his declared monthly rent and other expenses, were in excess of his declared 
monthly income of £1,200. The lending was unaffordable for him and he wouldnt be able to 
make the loan repayments. This turned out to be the case as the loan is still outstanding. 
So, and like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans two and three and 
MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Cs loan has been transferred to a third party MYJAR 
should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees 
and charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. 
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr C  I understand one is already in place.
 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loans    
two and three.
                                                                                                                               
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman