DRN-2261009
The complaint
Mrs N complains about a decision by her motor insurer, U K Insurance Limited, trading as 
Churchill Car Insurance (Churchill), that she was at fault when a truck hit her car. 
What happened
Mrs N raised her claim with Churchill in August 2019, after a truck had hit her car. The report 
Mrs N gave about the facts of the accident wasnt disputed, but the other drivers insurer said 
they felt Mrs N was at fault. Churchill decided they were right, and told Mrs N in October that 
shed have to pay her excess, and lose her no claims discount.
Mrs N didnt agree with the decision about fault, so she raised her complaint. Churchill 
reviewed the matter, but felt they hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs N brought her complaint 
to us. But our investigator felt Churchills terms and conditions meant they could make a 
decision to accept Mrs N was at fault. And she felt theyd taken reasonable steps to 
investigate the matter before deciding to do that. 
Mrs N has asked for the matter to be looked at again, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs N wants me to agree that shes not at fault for this accident. But my role 
isnt to decide that. Im looking at whether Churchill have acted fairly when deciding to 
accept Mrs N was at fault. And, from what Ive seen, I think they have. Ill explain why.
The policy booklet shows what Churchill said theyd do when Mrs N claimed against her 
insurance. The third general condition, on page 28, said theyd be able to carry out the 
negotiation of any claim. This means that, even though Mrs N wanted Churchill to argue she 
wasnt at fault for the accident, they could reasonably decide that she was. But, for that to be 
fair to Mrs N, Churchill need to have taken reasonable steps to understand the details of the 
accident, and then decide if these would support or challenge Mrs Ns view that the accident 
wasnt her fault. 
I can see that Churchills decision was based largely on the details Mrs N gave them of the 
accident. I find thats reasonable, as the other drivers insurer hadnt disputed those facts. 
And Churchill could expect Mrs N to be happy with their accuracy, as theyd come from her. 
I see the other drivers insurer made an argument why, based on those facts, they felt the 
accident was Mrs Ns fault. Churchill agreed with that argument. As that decision was based 
on a reasonable understanding of the details of the accident, I find Churchills decision was 
fair to Mrs N, even though they didnt agree with her view. 
As our investigator explained, that decision, along with other terms and conditions of the 
policy, meant that Mrs N had to pay her excess, and lost her no-claims-discount. While I 
appreciate those were unwanted expenses for Mrs N, theyre the result of the accident she 
had, rather than because Churchill did anything wrong. I find nothing unfair or unreasonable 
in the way Churchill handled the excess or no-claims-discount after Mrs Ns accident. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman