DRN-2668996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that a car that was supplied to them under a hire purchase 
agreement with Go Car Credit Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr and Mrs R under a hire purchase agreement with Go Car 
Credit that they electronically signed in July 2020. They complained to the dealer about a 
noise from the car later that month but then paid a garage £299.30 to replace two coil 
springs. The car was then checked by another garage in August 2020 and it identified 
misaligned doors and a bent pillar. 
They complained to Go Car Credit in August 2020 and said that they wanted to reject the 
car. It said that it had arranged for the car to be collected from them and taken to the dealer 
and that the dealer had rectified those issues. It said that the car had been repaired and was 
available to be collected and that a free repair of the coil springs was offered by the dealer, 
but Mr and Mrs R didnt accept it.
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with its response so complained to this service. They havent 
collected the car and have stopped making the monthly payments due to Go Car Credit for 
the car so it has recorded a default of the agreement  and the car is now in Go Car Credits 
possession. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. He thought that Go 
Car Credit had acted fairly and reasonably in repairing the car and it didnt need to do 
anything about the invoice for the coil springs. But he said that Go Car Credit should return 
the car to Mr and Mrs R at no cost to them.
Mr and Mrs R have asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. They say, 
in summary, that they want to reject the car and should be reimbursed for the cost of the 
replacement coil springs. Go Car Credit says it will return the car to Mr and Mrs R if they 
agree a payment arrangement for the amount that they owe to it  and as no payments have 
been made since September 2020 the account is now £1,782.56 in arrears (and is at the 
point of being terminated and the car repossessed). It says that without a payment 
arrangement being agreed it would not be willing to return the car to them as that would put 
its asset at risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Go Car Credit, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr and Mrs R - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr and Mrs R was eight years old, had been driven for 
about 98,000 miles and had a price of £5,999;
Mr and Mrs R contacted the dealer soon after the car was supplied to them because 
of a noise issue and Go Car Credit says that the dealer offered to rectify it for them 
free of charge, to provide them with a courtesy car and to collect the car from them  
but they chose to have the car repaired at a local garage;
Mr and Mrs R paid the garage £299.30 and the invoice shows that the offside front 
and rear coil springs and a reversing light switch were replaced  Mrs R says that the 
coil springs were rusty but shes not provided any evidence from the garage or 
another suitably qualified person to show that there was an issue with the springs 
that would have been present when the car was supplied to them;
the car was then checked by another garage in August 2020 and it identified 
misaligned doors and a bent pillar  Mr and Mrs R complained to Go Car Credit and 
it said that the dealer would inspect the car;
the car was collected from Mr and Mrs R in September 2020 and Go Car Credit says 
that the dealer repaired issues with the near-side front door, bumper, headlight and 
bonnet but that it found no structural issues;
Go Car Credit said that the car was available for collection but Mr and Mrs R havent 
collected it and have stopped making the monthly payments under the agreement;
I consider that the dealer and Go Car Credit have responded fairly and reasonably to 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  the dealer offered to rectify the noise issue but they 
chose to have the car repaired by a garage, they didnt contact Go Car Credit about 
issues with the car until after those repairs had been carried out, and the dealer says 
that the misaligned doors and other issues have been dealt with;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr and Mrs R asked to reject the car within 30 
days of it being supplied to them because of the noise issue and they chose to pay 
for it to be repaired which I dont consider to be consistent with a wish to reject the 
car;
nor have I seen evidence to show that there continue to be faults with the car or that 
the car isnt safe to drive;
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs R for the issues that theyve had with the car  and the 
other difficulties that theyve described  but Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
reasonable for me to require Go Car Credit to allow them to reject the car or to 
reimburse them for the repair costs that theyve incurred;
Mr and Mrs R havent made the payments that they agreed to make to Go Car Credit 
in the hire purchase agreement so their account went into arrears and it sent them a 
notice of default in October 2020  Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
to show that it has acted incorrectly in the way that it has dealt with the arrears on 
their account so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to waive or reduce the arrears on their account or to remove any adverse information 
about the missed payments that its recorded on their credit files;
our investigator said that Go Car Credit should return the car to Mr and Mrs R at no 
cost to them but it says that it will return the car to them if they agree a payment 
arrangement for the amount that they owe to it; andas Mr and Mrs R have stopped paying for the car and said that they wont be taking it 
back, I consider that its fair and reasonable for Go Car Credit to keep the car until Mr 
and Mrs R have agreed a repayment arrangement for the amount that they owe to it.
I suggest that Mr and Mrs R contact Go Car Credit to try to agree an affordable repayment 
for the amount that they owe to it. If they dont do that I consider it to be likely that Go Car 
Credit will take further action against them (to the extent that its legally entitled to do so). If 
Mr and Mrs R are experiencing financial difficulties they should explain those difficulties to 
Go Car Credit. Its required to respond to any financial difficulties that theyre experiencing 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman