DRN-3644977
The complaint
Mr B complains that Trading 212 UK Limited closed his positions on 20 August 2020 due to 
insufficient margin and provided no notification as to the margin level dropping.
What happened
Mr B opened a position in the May 2020 WTI crude oil futures contract. This was closed by 
Trading 212 on 20 April 2020 because Mr Bs margin fell below the required level. He 
thereafter complained to Trading 212 as he had not been given a margin warning before his 
position was closed.
Trading 212 didnt uphold the complaint. It said that on the 20 April 2020 the price of oil 
dropped into negative territory for the first time and his losses were the result of this, extreme 
volatility at the time and the fact that Mr B had insufficient margin.
Trading 212 also explained that it was under no legal or regulatory obligation to inform Mr B 
about his margin level dropping before liquidating his positions. It said it informed him that 
his positions had been closed due to insufficient margin as soon as this occurred in 
accordance with the client agreement.
Mr B didnt agree with Trading 212 and one of our investigators considered it. He wasnt 
satisfied Trading 212 were required to send an email before closing Mr Bs positions. He 
also pointed out that Mr B was responsible for monitoring his open positions and ensuring he 
had enough in his account to cover the margin requirement. He pointed to the fact that Mr B 
had not read the message about his positions being closed for around 90 minutes and 
thought this showed he wasnt monitoring his open positions.
The investigator explained that once the margin requirement had been breached Trading 
212 had to act and therefore even if it had sent an email it would have had to close the 
positions.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He set out the terms of agreement which he said 
showed that he should have been notified as soon as he failed to provide the required 
margin and that it was only when the shortage of funds exceeded 50% of margin that the 
terms referred to closing his positions without prior notice to him.
The investigator made further enquiries of Trading 212 as to its process given the terms Mr 
B had referred to and other information which the investigator thought made unclear the 
point at which it would close positions. It provided further information after which the 
investigator confirmed that he was still of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that Trading 212 were required to act as soon as the required margin wasnt sufficient 
and that the terms and conditions didnt require it to allow him time to rectify the situation. 
So, whilst he said he agreed that Trading 212 should have sent another email as well as the 
one informing him the positions had been closed he didnt think it would have made a 
difference if it had sent that email.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and pointed out that the terms meant Trading 212 
should have sent an email to him at the point that the margin indicator was at 50% which 
would have been when the required margin was 100%. He said that Trading 212 would then 
have closed positions when the margin indicator was less than 25% which would be when 
the required margin was at 50%. He said the time between these two events would have 
been how long her would have had to rectify the situation, if they had sent the email they 
should have sent.
The matter was referred to me for review and I issued a provisional decision, the findings 
from which are set out below:
The terms of the agreement and Risk Disclosure Notice make it clear that it is the clients
responsibility to monitor their account, so that at all times there is sufficient equity to meet
the margin requirement. Such terms are quite normal between clients and brokers when it 
comes to execution only accounts involving CFD trading.
If Mr B had been monitoring his account he would have been aware that his margin was 
falling and that he needed to put more funds into his account - or close positions - to improve 
his margin. In the circumstance I think any losses Mr B has suffered arise predominantly 
from his failure to monitor his margin.
Having said that, Mr B has raised a specific issue as to what he says Trading 212 were 
obliged to do  namely notify him when his margin was low before closing his position - 
which I think it is appropriate for me to make findings on.
Trading 212 said in its final response to Mr Bs complaint that it was under no obligation to 
inform him that his margin was dropping and that at no point in the client agreement does it 
state that it would notify him in advance of his positions being closed due to insufficient 
margin, just that it will notify him instantly his positions are closed.
I think there has been some confusion on the part of Trading 212 as to what it had agreed to 
do which may have been caused by the different terms used and the percentage figures 
referred to.
I have seen a reference to a margin indicator (or account status) as well as a margin 
requirement (or margin). These are two different things - albeit related as Trading 212 has 
said.
From the information I have seen a 50% margin indicator equates to the position when the 
margin requirement is at 100%. At this point Mr B would not be able to open any more 
positions but his positions would remain open unless he chose to close positions to improve 
his margin. In the alternative he could add funds to his account to allow him to continue to 
make trades. It is only when the margin indicator falls below 25% - which is when the margin 
requirement falls below 50% - that positions will be closed automatically.
Looking at the terms and conditions, they include the following clauses:
For each open position, we shall ring-fence a part of the funds you deposit as 
collateral. These funds are known as margin and you cannot withdraw them. 
Information on the current margin rates is available on our Website, as well as 
in the Terms and Commissions Table.You shall at all times maintain an appropriate margin level as per clause 9.1 and 
you shall independently monitor the compliance of the margin and recover it 
instantly when it drops below the required minimum.
If you fail to provide the required margin under clause 9.1 (if the total of your 
Account balance falls below the minimum margin required), we shall inform you 
instantly via the Trading Platform which provides access to your Account status, 
and by means of an automatically generated email.
You acknowledge and agree that upon our receipt of the information under 
clause 9.3, we shall close the open positions at current market prices without 
informing you in advance, in order to prevent you from sustaining losses 
exceeding the funds deposited in your Account. Under this Agreement, you 
agree to the price levels of the transactions upon closing the positions. You 
shall be informed about your closed positions by means of an instant 
notification via the Trading Platform that gives you access to your Account 
balance, or by an automatically generated email.
The provisions under clause 9.4 shall apply when the shortage of funds 
exceeds 50% of the margin required, and all your open positions shall be 
closed one by one or simultaneously.
The above clauses are not entirely clear in my view. Clause 9.3 refers to informing clients as 
soon as there is a failure to provide the required margin in clause 9.1. Clause 9.4 indicates 
that it is at this point positions will be closed without notice.
However, clause 9.5 then refers to the provisions of clause 9.4 applying when the shortage 
of funds exceed 50% of the margin required, not as soon as there is a failure to provide the 
required margin as clause 9.4 indicates. If that is right then clause 9.3 should be read as 
requiring Trading 212 to notify a client as soon as the required margin falls below 100% with 
positions remaining open until the margin required falls below 50% - at which point positions 
will be closed automatically without any further notice.
This is consistent with the information that Trading 212 provides to clients through its online 
Help Desk, which states:
45% Status  Margin Call
When your account status drops below 45% we will send you an email notification with a 
low margin warning.
Below 25% - Negative Balance Protection
If your account status drops below 25% we will automatically close all positions, following 
their opening order, to prevent you from losing more than your deposited funds.
As I have explained above account status is the same as margin indicator and it is only 
when the account status drops to 25% - when the required margin is below 50% - that 
positions will be closed. The information in the Held Desk makes it clear that before the 
account reaches that position an email notification will be sent  when the account status is 
at 45%.
This was confirmed by Trading 212 in its response to Mr Bs initial query when it informed 
him that the margin indicator had been below 50% for quite some time and that:
You only receive a margin call once below 50% and the next action will the direct stop out at 
25%Furthermore in an email to us on 22 March 2022 Trading 212 referred to the margin indicator 
changing colour from green to orange at the exact time it reached 47% - rather than the 45% 
referred to in the Help Desk  and that at that point a margin call message would be sent to 
the client.
Based on the information in the Help Desk and what Trading 212 has said in this complaint I 
think it is clear Mr B should have received an email before his margin fell to a level which 
required his positions to be closed - which was at the point the margin indicator was at 25%. 
It is Mr Bs case he didnt get any such email. I asked Trading 212 to provide a copy of the 
email that should have been sent and it has not been able to produce this. In the 
circumstances, in the absence of any evidence to show the email was sent, I am not 
satisfied that it was.
Mr B would not have needed to be in his online account to see an email so it is possible that 
he would have seen this before his position were automatically closed for margin breach. If 
he had done so then he may have had time to add funds to his account to avoid margin 
breach in which case Trading 212 would have rolled his position over into the following 
futures contract - as it did with other clients after deciding to suspend the May 2020 oil 
futures contract due to illiquidity.
However, it was primarily Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he had enough margin, as I have 
already said. He should not have been dependent on being notified by Trading 212 if his 
margin was dropping, he should have been aware of this in any event and acted accordingly. 
Furthermore, I am not satisfied Mr B wouldnt have ended up in the same position even if an 
email had been sent. This is because I have no way of knowing if Mr B would have seen the 
email before margin close out, or if he had whether he would have had time to add funds to 
his account to avoid this.
So, as matters stand, whilst I think Trading 212 failed to send the email it should have done, 
I am not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to award Mr B any redress in this 
complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further  information they 
wanted me to consider.
Trading 212 said it had nothing further to add. Mr B responded and said that he was glad 
that I thought Trading 212 was obliged to send him an email. However, he said he still didnt 
understand why he had to comply with the provisions of the contract whilst Trading 212 
didnt. He said that I had said that all responsibility lies with him and he didnt agree with that. 
Mr B queried what the position would be if Trading 212 refused to close positions and he 
suffered loss as a result. The contract says that Trading 212 will inform him and then close 
the deal not that it will close it in any event. He said he understood that the law required it to 
close the transaction but that it also required it to comply with the terms of the contract. He 
said that if Trading 212 had done what it was required to do he would have been able to 
react.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything that Mr B has said in response to my provisional decision but I 
am not persuaded that I should change the findings in my provisional decision.I note what Mr B has said about me holding him entirely responsible for what happened. 
However, what I said was that primarily it was his responsibility to ensure he had enough 
margin and that he should have been aware that his margin was dropping and that his 
losses arose predominantly from him failing to monitor his account. 
I still think that it was for Mr B to monitor his account and ensure he had sufficient margin 
rather than rely on being sent an email when his margin dropped. That isnt to say I would 
not necessarily have awarded something to him if I had been satisfied that there was a real 
possibility Mr B would have been able to rectify the position if the email had been sent. 
However, for me to make such a finding I would need to be satisfied that it was more likely 
than not that if the email had been sent Mr B would have seen it before margin close out and 
been able to add funds in time to avoid this. Mr B has said if the email had been sent he 
would have been able to react, but as I said in my provisional decision, there is no way of me 
knowing if that would have been possible.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award for the reasons set out in provisional 
decision and above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman