DRN-3418148
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the delays caused by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(Fidelity) in transferring her stocks and shares ISA and General Investment Account (GIA) 
to another platform provider.
What happened
Mrs C held a stocks and shares ISA and GIA account with Fidelity. She wanted to move both 
accounts to another platform provider which I shall refer to as B in my decision. 
Mrs C gave her transfer instruction to Fidelity on 9/10 June 2020, but it didnt complete until 
the end of January 2021.
During the transfer process Mrs C raised a complaint with Fidelity in September 2020 about 
the delays. Fidelity responded on 14 May 2021. Briefly it said;
Fidelity accepted it had caused a delay of over two months with a partial transfer of 
the assets held in the GIA. There was a delay in the sale of one of the holdings, but it 
said Mrs C hadnt suffered a financial loss because of this. 
There were also delays with the ISA transfer of around two and a half months. It had 
sold one of the funds later than it should have done but again, Mrs C wasnt 
financially disadvantaged because of it.
It hadnt correctly handled a complaint received from B about the transfer.
It made an offer of £425. A total of £200 for the delays in the GIA transfer. £125 for 
the ISA delays, £50 for the delay in chasing the ISA stock transfer and £50 for not 
dealing with the complaint raised by B.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the response from Fidelity and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. In the meantime, Fidelity increased its offer to £475 which our 
investigator put to Mrs C but she wasnt satisfied as she thought it was derisory. She wanted 
her complaint to be looked into. Her complaint points were;
Fidelity failed to action requests for the transfer.
Delayed every step.
Ignored repeated requests by B to carry out transfers.
Ignored an intra-firm complaint from B.
Ignored Mrs Cs complaint.
Failed to comply with its own complaint procedure. 
Mrs C also raised a complaint about the book costs of her investments, but this is being 
dealt with separately, so I wont be considering that complaint in this decision. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought the offer made by Fidelity was fair. 
Briefly, she said;
The delays experienced by Mrs C during the transfer were longer than the expected 
average of 30 days and wasnt reasonable.
She acknowledged how stressful the delays in the transfer must have been for Mrs C 
but thought the offer was fair. 
She couldnt see that Mrs C had suffered a financial loss because of the delays in the 
sales. 
Mrs C remained dissatisfied. She didnt think the offer compensated her sufficiently for the 
sleepless nights she had experienced thinking that her lifes savings were kept from her or 
lost. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I consider the offer made by Fidelity to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont doubt that Mrs C will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I hope to be able to explain how and why I have reached that decision. 
The delays in transferring the GIA
Fidelity has sent us a detailed breakdown of what happened during the transfer and I have 
briefly outlined the main events below.
It was instructed by B on 13 July 2020 to re-register 16 of Mrs Cs holdings and convert five 
of the funds into different classes with the same fund managers. Fidelity replied on 15 July to 
explain that funds could be converted online by Mrs C or Mrs C could instruct Fidelity to 
switch funds. B said it would advise in due course about the conversion, but Fidelity could 
proceed with the in-specie transfer. 
Seven of the in-specie funds were transferred on 23 September and a further six the 
next day. 
Two further funds were transferred in specie on 2 October
B requested another fund be transferred in specie on 13 November.
Fidelity was instructed to sell one of the holdings on 26 November, but the sale didnt 
take place until 26 January 2021.
Two funds were transferred in specie on 18 December and another on 21 December. 
Two funds were transfer in-specie on 13 January.
In its final response letter Fidelity explained the delays and made the following offers in 
recognition of mistakes it had made;
It said the transfers on 23/24 September were made just over two months after the 
transfer was agreed on 16 July. Fidelity said this was because of errors it had 
caused. It offered £100 because of this. 
Fidelity received a further acceptance for one of the funds on 13 November and 
which was chased by B on 3 December. However, Fidelity didnt start the transfer 
until 21 December.Fidelity received a sale instruction for one of the funds on 26 November. Again, B 
chased this, but it wasnt sold until 26 January 2021. However, if it had sold the fund 
on the fifth day after receipt of the sale instruction  on 3 December  Mrs C would 
have received less sale proceeds, so she hadnt lost out financially because of this 
delay. 
B chased three times in December for the transfer of another of the funds. Fidelity 
responded that it needed acceptance which it received on 29 December. Fidelity 
acknowledged it caused a further two-month delay and offered a further £100 
because of this.  
The delays in transferring the ISA
Again, Fidelity has provided a breakdown of what happened with this transfer instruction;
Mrs C signed her ISA transfer authority form on 22 May 2020. She held six funds 
within her ISA plus cash. It was for a full transfer and in specie. This was emailed 
onto Fidelity by B on 9 June 2020 with the request that Fidelity provide an up to date 
valuation of Mrs C holdings and arrange the transfer. 
On 13 June 2020 Fidelity incorrectly emailed B saying it had been asked to sell a 
single fund for the ISA account which wasnt possible as it didnt offer partial ISA 
transfers. B corrected this misunderstanding on 16 June 2020 and requested an in-
specie transfer. 
B accepted the transfer on 2 July for four of the funds to be moved in specie and 
Fidelity was subsequently chased by B on three occasions. Fidelity has 
acknowledged that in error it mistook this to be a partial transfer and it had rejected 
the request on 12 August. 
Fidelity said it hadnt previously received an email dated 30 June for the sale of two 
of the funds held. It was only received on 13 August. 
On 24 August Fidelity again rejected a partial transfer of the ISA. 
The two sales it received instruction for on 13 August sales took place on 18 
September and the proceeds transferred to B on the 21 September. Fidelity has 
acknowledged it caused this delay but said that Mrs C had financially benefited from 
the delay in the sales. 
Three funds were transferred in specie on 18 September.
The final fund was transferred on 31 December. Fidelity explained that for this fund it 
had to arrange a manual transfer. It sent the stock transfer form to the fund manager 
on 29 September, but it was rejected and had to be re-sent on 20 October however it 
didnt chase the fund manager until a month later. 
In its final response letter Fidelity offered £125 for the two-and-a-half-month delay with the 
ISA transfer and £50 for the delay in chasing the fund manager for the manual transfer and 
it. 
HMRC guidelines are that stocks and shares ISA transfers should take no longer that 30 
calendar days and its clear that did not happen here.
The impact of the delays on Mrs C
Mrs C told us that it was very worrying and stressful for her to have most of her life savings 
at risk and out of her control or even sure they were secure. She had been self-employed all 
of her life and the worry caused her many sleepless nights. I dont doubt the concerns Mrs C had. However, Ive seen nothing to suggest her assets 
werent secure during the time of the transfer. The investments that were transferred in 
specie remained invested throughout and the Mrs C hasnt lost out financially because of the 
delays in the sales made. 
Its not the role of the Financial ombudsman to fine or punish businesses. That is the role of 
the regulator. And our awards for any inconvenience or distress suffered by a customer 
arent punitive to the business. But its very clear that Mrs C did experience more levels of 
frustration that she should reasonably expect from a relationship with a financial business 
and the time it took for the matter to be resolved. 
Is the offer fair?
I fully recognise Mrs Cs points about her not knowing where her life savings were during the 
period of transfer. And she has made very clear the worry it caused her. But as I have said 
above, I am satisfied her assets were safe and I have borne in mind our long-standing 
approach to awards for distress and inconvenience caused. So, taking all of this into 
account, I think £475 is fair and reasonable compensation for the delays Mrs C experienced 
during the transfer process and for the delay in responding to the complaint raised by B. 
Did Mrs C suffer an actual financial loss?
Mrs C has said that she was effectively kept from her investments during the very difficult 
period of the pandemic. She has said she has lost out but wasnt able to make a calculation. 
Fidelity has provided us with the valuations for the holdings which were sold. Mrs C 
benefitted from the delays and is better off than she would otherwise have been so for those 
sales I cant conclude that Mrs C has suffered an actual financial loss.
Clearly, I cant know what action Mrs C would have taken if the transfer had completed in a 
shorter timeframe. She hasnt told us of any transactions she wanted to carry out or was 
prevented from doing so. But I see that cash of £168,040.45 was transferred from Fidelity to 
B on 28 September 2020 and those funds were reinvested by B on 5 and 6 November 2020 
which suggests to me there wasnt any great urgency for the funds to be reinvested. 
For the other holdings that were transferred in specie  they remained in their then current 
form and invested in the stock market. So again, as Mrs C wasnt out of the market during 
this time, I cant make a finding that she suffered a financial loss because of the delays 
caused by Fidelitys failures. 
The fact that there were unreasonable delays in the transfer of Mrs Cs two accounts is not 
in dispute. Fidelity has recognised and acknowledged this. But there is no evidence to 
suggest that Mrs C suffered an actual financial loss because of the delays, so I make no 
additional award. 
Mrs C has told us that B made an intra-firm complaint to Fidelity on behalf of several of its 
customers. I cant comment on this as it is an issue between the two businesses and is not 
something that I can consider. However, Fidelity has made an offer of £50 for the delay in 
dealing with that complaint. 
If Mrs C does wish to accept the offer, Fidelity has asked that that she please provide her 
bank mandate information via the Financial Ombudsman. Or she can share her bank 
mandate email with it by letter which should be signed by Mrs C and include her full name 
and address, by Secure Message rather than email or by phoning its complaints team and 
clearing phone security. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It is for Mrs C to decide 
whether to accept the offer made by Fidelity Administration Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman