DRN-2020358
The complaint
Miss D is complaining about the administration of her motor insurance policy by Ambant 
Limited.
What happened
Miss D complained to us that Ambant cancelled her car insurance in May 2019 and chased 
her for outstanding payments of about £270. But theres quite a long sequence of events 
which led up to this which Ill set out because I think its all relevant to her complaint.
In December 2018, Miss D wanted to change the vehicle on her car insurance policy, from a 
Nissan to a Renault. She spoke with Ambant and ended up cancelling the policy for the 
Nissan and taking out a new policy for the Renault. In early January 2019, Ambant contacted 
Miss D as her payment hadnt gone through for the Renault policy. Miss D called Ambant to 
sort out the problem. During this call, Miss D said she was buying another car (a Hyundai) 
and asked about insuring that one. As a result of the call, her existing policy was updated, 
removing the Renault from the policy and adding the Hyundai instead. 
Later in January 2019, Miss D had an accident in the Hyundai. She made a claim on her 
policy. Miss Ds insurer said the car was a total loss and agreed a settlement figure with her. 
Miss D initially kept the car but then changed her mind and scrapped it. 
In May 2019, Miss D was driving the Renault when she was stopped by the police. They told 
her she wasnt insured to drive that car and escorted her home. Miss D called Ambant as 
she wanted to cancel her insurance on the Hyundai. Ambant told her she would need to pay 
around £270 to cancel the insurance  but Miss D wasnt happy with this so the cancellation 
wasnt processed. During the same call Miss D said she wanted to insure the Renault  but 
Ambant said they would need to contact the insurer because Miss D had been caught 
driving without insurance. And they said they couldnt do that until the next day. At that point 
Miss D said she would get her insurance elsewhere. 
During the week that followed, Ambant tried to call Miss D on several occasions but couldnt 
get hold of her. So, they sent a letter saying that they were cancelling her insurance. This 
letter didnt refer to the outstanding balance. A week later, Ambant sent Miss D a letter telling 
her she still owed them around £270 for the policy that had been cancelled. They continued 
to chase for payment and then passed the debt to solicitors to start a legal recovery process.
Miss D complained to Ambant and then brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at Miss Ds complaint and said he didnt think Ambant had done anything 
wrong. He said the outstanding balance on Miss Ds insurance was in line with the policy 
terms  because Miss D had made a claim on her policy she had to pay for the full years 
insurance. And he thought Ambant had handled the policy changes correctly. Miss D wasnt 
happy with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint  so its come 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator and wont be upholding Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The early January call and driving without insurance
Ive listened to the call Miss D made to the broker on 2 January 2019. Unfortunately there 
was some confusion and misunderstanding on this call. There was one moment during the 
call where the Ambant representative mightve questioned whether Miss D wanted to 
transfer her policy from the Nissan to the Hyundai (rather than from the Renault to the 
Hyundai). But during the rest of the conversation Miss D and the Ambant representative 
were talking at cross-purposes, whilst thinking they understood each other. The Ambant 
representative was clear that he was changing an existing policy to swap the existing car  
the Renault  for the new car - the Hyundai. For example, he took time to explain to Miss D 
that she wouldnt be able to drive her car once the policy changed over to the Hyundai. And 
both Miss D and the representative were clear that the Nissan policy had already been 
cancelled. So I think Ambant acted fairly in transferring the Renault policy to the Hyundai  
as it seemed this was what Miss D wanted to do. And having listened carefully to the call, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Ambant responsible for any misunderstanding in Miss Ds 
mind about which car or cars she was then insured to drive. 
Miss Ds said she could see she was only making one payment each month for her car 
insurance from February onwards. She thought this was for the Renault because she 
thought the Hyundai policy would have been been cancelled when the car was written off. I 
can appreciate why she might have thought this  but the policy for the Hyundai was 
cheaper than the policy for the Renault  so she could have done more to check which car 
was insured. 
In addition, Miss D kept the Hyundai after it had been written off. So it wouldnt have been 
right for Ambant (or Miss Ds insurer) to have cancelled the Hyundai policy without Miss Ds 
instruction to do so.
Cancellation of the Hyundai insurance in May
Miss Ds policy documents explain what happens if a consumer cancels their insurance 
policy after theyve made a claim:
However, if a claim has been made, there will be no refund of premium and if you paid for 
your insurance by instalments, you must pay any outstanding balance in full.
Thats why, when Miss D called to cancel her Hyundai policy, Ambants representative told 
her she needed to pay around £270  this was the total of the remaining instalments on the 
policy. During the call, Miss D says Ambant should have cancelled the policy when she had 
the accident and the car was written off  but it wouldnt have changed the outcome  
Miss D would still have had to pay for the remainder of the years insurance. So it doesnt 
matter whether the policy was cancelled in May or much earlier in the year.
During that call in May, it became clear that Miss D wanted to move the policy from the 
Hyundai to the Renault. And it seems that Ambant were willing to try to sort this out for her  
but because Miss D had been stopped by the police for driving without insurance they 
needed to check the underwriting criteria with the insurer. Unfortunately the insurer was closed at the time so Ambant said they couldnt sort it out until the next day. I can hear that 
Miss D became frustrated and lost trust in Ambant during this call.
Ambant tried to contact Miss D several times over the next few days to discuss her policy but 
Miss D didnt answer her phone or respond to the email they sent her. I appreciate Miss D 
isnt always able to answer her phone but I do think she had the opportunity to call Ambant 
back and sort things out. 
In the end, because Ambant hadnt been able to get hold Miss D to discuss transferring her 
policy, they sent her a letter saying they were cancelling her policy. Im satisfied this was fair 
because it was clear from the May conversation that Miss D was no longer driving the 
Hyundai. Miss Ds complained that this first letter didnt mention the balance owed  but she 
was told about this on the phone, so I dont think it should have come as a surprise to her 
when she was asked to pay the balance. 
I can appreciate why this whole situation might have been upsetting and frustrating for 
Miss D. But I think it has largely arisen because of an initial misunderstanding in January. 
And then it wasnt helped by Miss D not communicating with Ambant after the phone call in 
May. But whilst I think there has been misunderstanding, I dont think Ambant has done 
anything wrong, so Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint against Ambant Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman