DRN-2281233
The complaint
Mr K says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD, 
as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr K bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ks store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave 
him a brief overview of the policys purpose and cost, then he could either sign to take out 
the PPI or leave that section blank to turn it down. Mr K signed specifically for the policy, 
then separately he signed the application as a whole to confirm his choices. Ive not seen 
any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that 
Mr K was misled here. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mr K aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he 
no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Mr K tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. They did have to give Mr K enough information to decide for himself whether 
the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mr K about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr K chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like he was 
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ks work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover. 
And while I understand he had other insurance, that covered very different things to the PPI 
so Im afraid it wasnt relevant here. So the PPI could have been useful for Mr K in case 
something went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr K could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman