DRN-3168947
The complaint
Miss A complains that Advantage Finance Ltd refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Advantage is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was acquired in January 2019 and was a little over five years old and had covered 
some 80,000 miles. As such, a degree of wear and tear was to be expected. That said, my 
role is to consider if the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Miss A has told us that she first encountered a problem in March 2019 when she found the 
car pulling to one side. She says this was repaired by the dealer, but the issue returned a 
few months later. I have seen that the dealer carried out repairs to the tracking in June 2019 
at no cost to Miss A, but it has not provided any record of an earlier repair.
She says the handbrake cable snapped in the autumn of 2019 and shortly after this she had 
issues with the gearbox and she found a garage to repair it at a cost of £1,272. The diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) suffered a problem in October 2020 and a week later the handbrake 
pully broke. 
In February 2021the car broke down and had to be towed and I understand it hasnt been 
driven since as Miss A says she is unable to afford the repairs. The report from the AA does 
not indicate the cause of the problem. Advantage arranged for an independent engineer to 
inspect the car. It could not be started and the engineer thought it may have suffered an 
ignition fault, but further investigations would be required. However, he said: Based on the 
vehicles overall physical condition, we believe it was fit for purpose and road legal at the 
point of sale and in an overall general condition consistent with the vehicles age and 
reported mileage.
I note Miss A had the car inspected by another garage which suggested the engine needed 
to be replaced. It said that the vehicle was possibly faulty from the point of sale.
Miss A has accepted that the faults with the DPF and the handbrake cable may well be 
matters of wear and tear. I agree.  The tracking issue was repaired by the merchant without 
cost to Miss A and that work came with a warranty and so if that issue had arisen again Miss 
A could have taken it back. 
The major issue, the gearbox, arose after she had the car for over six months and had 
driven it for some 7,000 miles. That makes it difficult for me to conclude that the fault was 
present at the point of sale. If it had a fault developing in January 2019 I would have 
expected it to come to light long before it did. I also have to consider the independent 
inspectors report which says that there was no basis to conclude the car was faulty at the 
point of sale.
The garage which inspected the car has not provided a clear statement that it thought the 
car was fault in January 2019. It simply says it possibly may have been. That suggests it 
may also have been fit for purpose at the point of sale. I dont regard this as sufficiently clear 
so as to allow me to conclude the car can be rejected. 
Quite simply I do not sufficient evidence to show that the car was faulty at the point of sale. I 
agree that it did develop a fault, but unless it can be shown to have been present when the 
car was sold I cannot require Advantage to accept rejection.
Miss A provided the service history and I note the last recorded service she has submitted 
was just before she acquired the car. I believe the car should be serviced every 10,000 miles 
or one year whichever is the shorter. If that is correct it would suggest the car was in need of 
a service when it broke down. Even if the car had been serviced as required I cannot 
reasonably conclude that it was faulty at the point of sale.
I appreciate Miss A has been though very difficult times in the last year and she has my 
sympathy, but that does not allow me to reach a conclusion that is unfair to Advantage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman