DRN-2415452
The complaint
Mr B complains that Leeds Building Society will unfairly apply an early repayment charge 
(ERC) if he repays his mortgage, despite experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B took out a mortgage with Leeds. It had a fixed interest rate until 31 January 
2022. If the mortgage was repaid before that date.
In 2020, Mr B asked Leeds to waive the ERC. He said that he had lost his job due to issues 
related to Covid-19 and was struggling to find another job. Mr B said he wanted to move to 
another area where it was more likely he could find work, but he needed all the money from 
the sale to cover his sale and moving costs. 
After Mr B chased Leeds, it replied to say it wouldnt agree to waive the ERC as it was part 
of the terms and condition he had agreed to and because of the amount of equity in the 
property. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Leeds had 
made its decision not to waive the ERC fairly. He accepted it took Leeds too long to reply to 
Mr B  but the investigator thought its offer of £75 for the trouble and upset its delay caused 
was fair. He later added that Leeds set the ERC at a level that reflected its reasonable 
estimate of the costs of the mortgage being repaid early.
Mr B didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Leeds was a national organisation and should have a risk register, which covers 
incidents such as a global pandemic. Indeed the FCA required it to have one.
There is no cost to Leeds if the mortgage is repaid. There is a credit on Leeds accounts, 
so it doesnt need to raise matching funds.
The penalty being charged by Leeds is in excess of any hypothetical interest it 
calculates.
Leeds has recorded adverse information on his credit file, preventing him from obtaining 
a new mortgage. He cant see how this and imposing an ERC is treating him fairly.
The government has put in place various measures to help borrowers who were affected 
by the pandemic. It follows that ERCs are treated in the same way and removed if they 
are due to a pandemic related cause.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint. That is not that I dont 
sympathise with the difficult time hes been through or understand why having the ERC 
waived would help him out enormously. But after reviewing everything, I dont consider 
Leeds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the individual circumstances of Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr B took out the mortgage with Leeds, he agreed to be bound by the terms of the 
mortgage offer. That includes that an ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 
31 January 2022. So, contractually Leeds is entitled to apply the ERC if the mortgage is 
repaid before that date. Just as Mr B could expect Leeds not to increase the amount or 
duration of the ERC from what was stated in the mortgage offer.
Id note that the ERC isnt a penalty. That has a distinct meaning in law. It is a contractual 
term that applies where there is a breach of contract. But if Mr Bs mortgage is repaid, there 
is no breach of contract. That is because the contract allows for the mortgage to be repaid, if 
Mr B pays an ERC.
That does not, however, give Leeds a free hand to charge whatever ERC it wants. The 
relevant rules say that the ERC must represent a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the 
mortgage being repaid early. But it can be calculated across range of mortgages  it doesnt 
have to make an estimate for each individual mortgage.
Leeds has provided an explanation of how it calculates ERCs on its fixed rate. It says this is 
commercially sensitive information  and under our rules I can accept this in confidence. 
What it has told us in in line with my experience of how other lenders estimate ERCs. Of 
course, that doesnt necessarily mean it is fair or unfair. But having looked at what it has told 
us, I am satisfied that it is a fair way to estimate its costs on early repayment of the 
mortgage.
I dont agree with Mr B that there will necessarily be no loss to Leeds if the mortgage was 
repaid early. While it might have the money back and it can lend that to someone else  it 
might not be able to re-lend it straight away or at the same interest rate. 
In any case, Leeds said that its ERCs are largely based on its estimated cost of unwinding 
the financial instruments it uses to protect its position if there are fluctuations in interest 
rates. It has shown that it carries out an assessment of how likely borrowers are to repay 
after considering future volatility in interest rates and looks at past performance, in addition 
to comparing against what other lenders charge. I appreciate this is a rather technical area  
but I am satisfied that Leeds has done enough to demonstrate that the ERC is a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. The actual cost might be more 
or less  but that isnt relevant here.
Leeds also has an overriding obligation to treat Mr B fairly. I can see it did give consideration 
to Mr Bs circumstances, but thought that the evidence it had showed that Mr B had enough 
equity in his property to cover the ERC outweighed the difficult position he found himself in. I 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances. Mr B agreed to pay that amount if he repaid 
the mortgage during the fixed rate period and as things stood it appeared he would have 
enough money to do so. I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Leeds should incur 
the costs of the mortgage being repaid early, in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint.
Of course, if the situation changes once Mr B has sold the property, then Leeds should 
reconsider the position then. That would need to be a new complaint though if Mr B didnt 
agree with Leeds decision. As would any issues that have come up during the course of this complaint, including any adverse information recorded on his credit file and any delay in 
producing a redemption statement.
I agree that lenders are required to assess and plan for risks that might include a pandemic. 
It isnt for me to look into whether Leeds has done that  Im only looking at the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont agree that Leeds was required to waive ERCs if a borrower was affected by a 
pandemic. But it should still carefully consider a borrowers individual circumstances and 
make a case-by-case assessment of what is fair in each case. I am satisfied it has done so 
here  but if the circumstances have changed, and Mr B wishes to pursue it then it would be 
reasonable for it to review its position and explain its reasons for whatever decision it 
reaches.
I agree that Leeds should have replied more quickly to Mr B. But I think its offer of £75 fairly 
reflects any trouble and upset Mr B experienced as a result of that 
My final decision
My final decision is that Leeds Building Society should pay Mr B £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman