DRN-3835844
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Warren & Co (Complete Financial Solutions) Ltd advised him to 
make pension contributions in excess of his relevant earnings for the tax years 2018/19 
and 2020/21. As a result, Mr B has incurred an annual allowance charge from HMRC.
What happened
Mr B approached Warren & Co in 2018 for pension advice. He had received an inheritance 
of £58,000 and wanted to use it to fund his pension. In the suitability report, issued on 20 
August 2018, the adviser said:
You asked me what the maximum amount that you could potentially contribute into a 
pension plan was and I have advised you that because you earn £42,000 gross per annum 
then the maximum amount that you could contribute into a pension and receive tax relief on 
the contribution, would be £40,000 gross.
The Suitability Report was based on information gathered in a fact-find meeting on 19 
July 2018. According to the Suitability Report Mr Bs circumstances were as follows:
He was employed as a company director
He had income of £42,000 per annum
He had two existing Personal Pensions with Aviva, but had not contributed to them    
for some time
He also had a final salary pension from a previous employer
Based on this information, the adviser recommended that Mr B should invest £40,000 gross 
(£32,000 net) into a pension, to match the annual allowance for the 2018/19 tax year. The 
adviser noted that Mr B could carry forward unused tax relief from previous years if he 
wanted to contribute a higher sum. According to the Suitability Report, Mr B preferred not to 
use carry forward, but the adviser recommended further contributions be made in the 
following tax year.
Based on a cheque on file, Mr B invested £30,000 into the pension around 31 August 2018.
Also, in August 2018, Warren & Co recommended an Income Protection policy for Mr B. 
The application form recorded his personal taxable income as £42,000. The benefit 
selected was £1,870 per month.
A further review of Mr Bs pension arrangements took place on 14 January 2020, in which 
the fact-find completed in August 2018 was updated. Handwritten notes were added to the 
fact find, but its unclear whether these notes were originally added in August 2018, or 
whether all the notes were added in January 2020.
The notes included the comment: Mr B says he has taxable PAYE income of approx. 
£43,000 for the 2019/20 tax year. The adviser further noted that he recommended Mr B 
speak to his accountant before making any new pension contributions and that he 
discussed drawing dividends from his limited company instead of PAYE earnings to 
increase tax efficiency and reduce NI.
The fact find was signed by Mr B on 14 January 2020.
A short Suitability Letter was issued on 5 May 2020. It recorded Mr Bs income as 
being £43,000 and said that he was interested in investing £18,750 gross (£15,000 net). No 
actual recommendations were made in the one page letter, but Mr B was charged an initial 
fee of £375 after making the contribution.
Mr B mentioned these contributions to his accountant, who explained that because a 
significant proportion of his income was made up of dividends, this limited the amount of 
tax relievable pension contributions he could make. According to Mr B, this resulted in an 
annual allowance charge of £5,739.80 for tax year 2019/20 and £3,705 in 2020/21.
Mr B complained to Warren & Co in February 2021. In its final response letter issued on 11 
March 2021, Warren & Co declined to uphold the complaint. It said that the documents it 
held, some of which Mr B had signed, confirmed his income as being PAYE. It further said 
that it had advised him to discuss taking dividends with his accountant.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr B referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
thought that it should be upheld, saying the following in summary:
It was agreed by all parties that, following the inheritance, Mr B wished to maximise 
his pension contributions.
In accordance with the requirements of COB 5.2.5 from the FCAs handbook, Warren 
& Co needed to know its customer, which involved obtaining sufficient personal 
information which would be relevant to the services it would provide.
Mr B also needed to provide accurate information about his circumstances, but this 
would rely on Warren & Co having asked the right questions. And it was of crucial 
importance that it understood the nature of Mr Bs income.
Mr B had been a company director since March 2001, and although he took a 
proportion of his income as dividends, he told the investigator that he hadnt 
understood that these werent considered earned income and so didnt contribute to 
the relevant income for pension contribution purposes.
Mr B didnt recall being asked questions relating to the nature of his income during 
the fact finding process, but he was aware of part of it being in dividends and would 
have provided this information if requested.
On the basis that Warren & Co knew that Mr B was a company director, this should 
have led to a conversation about the nature of his income, or to it liaising with Mr Bs 
accountant.
Had the risks of contributing in excess of the annual allowance been set out to Mr B, 
he would have taken steps to gather the necessary information. But these risks 
werent contained within the suitability report.
But even if Mr B received income entirely on a PAYE basis, it couldnt have been 
known that his whole of year earnings would support the £30,000 net contribution as the advice was given at the end of August 2018 - only six months into the financial 
year. It was therefore essential that Mr Bs accountant should be involved.
Although Warren & Co was relying on the notes added to the suitability report to 
demonstrate that it recommended the involvement of an accountant, it was unclear 
as to when these were added. But a reference to the 2019/20 tax year suggested 
that they were made after the second review  after the £30,000 contribution in 2018. 
Warren & Co had also queried as to why Mr Bs accountant hadnt picked up on this 
before, but the pension contributions were made from Mr Bs personal finances, and 
so they wouldnt be aware of them unless specifically mentioned by Mr B.
The advice in 2020 was very much a rubber stamp of that given in 2018. The letter 
was very short and was based on income of approximately £43,000.
Warren & Co had said that Mr B could be deemed to be a sophisticated investor, but 
he was provided services as a retail customer, and was reliant upon Warren & Co for 
specialist pensions advice.
Whilst Warren & Co had pointed to the £42,000 income recorded for an income 
protection policy established in 2018 as supporting the position that the advice was 
suitable, this only cast into doubt the suitability of that protection policy. The 
maximum level of monthly benefit under the policy was capped at 60% of personal 
taxable income, which would exclude dividends. So it was again vital that Warren & 
Co understood Mr Bs income position, as Mr B could have been paying for a level of 
benefit which hed be unable to claim.
In recommending a manner of calculating whether redress was due to Mr B, the investigator 
said it was likely that, by invoking unused tax relief from other years, Mr B could have made 
the full £45,000 contribution between 2018/19 and 2020/21 and received tax relief.
He therefore proposed that Warren & Co repay the annual allowance charges hes paid, 
along with interest, but with no deduction on the growth which the contributions might have 
accrued, as he would have been able to make the full £45,000 contributions in a different 
format to that recommended by Warren & Co.
He further said that Warren & Co should pay Mr B the amount of £500 in respect of the 
trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice, and that Mr B had needed to encash 
another pension to pay the unexpected annual allowance charges.
Warren & Co made the following points in response:
As Mr B only had PAYE income of £8,314 in 2018/19, the most he could have 
contributed was a net amount of £6,651 and no carry forward would have been 
available because he didnt use up all of his annual allowance in the 2018/19 tax 
year. 
The only way he could have made a £30,000 contribution in 2018/19 was if his PAYE 
earnings had been at least £30,000.
There had been several discussions about how Mr B was paid, in particular around 
dividends, and hed confirmed that he was paid by PAYE.It didnt understand how Mr B had made a loss, as hed received £22,500 tax relief 
on his pension contributions, and as the annual allowance charge had been 
£9,444.80, hed made a profit of £13,055.20. And this didnt include the fund 
growth on both the contributions and the added tax relief.
It also queried the apparent contradiction between the stated position that Mr B had 
needed to pay the tax charge out of his own pocket, and that hed needed to encash 
pension funds to pay it. Mr B could in fact have switched his Royal London pension 
plan into flexi access drawdown at a cost of £210 and then withdrawn enough 
money to cover the tax charge through accessing his tax free cash.
He could have withdrawn the £9,444.80 charge just from the tax relief that he 
received on his pension contributions.
The investigator considered these points and agreed that Mr B couldnt have invested the 
whole £45,000 and received tax relief due to the carry forward rules. And so he said that the 
benefit from growth on the overall contribution should therefore be taken into account.
He also noted the comment relating to the conversations with Mr B about his income, but he 
wasnt persuaded that Mr B would have insisted that his income was entirely on the basis of 
PAYE. He also remained of the view that the contribution of £30,000 in August 2018 had 
been premature, given that it was only halfway into the tax year.
With regard to the matter of whether Mr B had suffered a loss, he acknowledged that Mr B 
had received tax relief of £22,500, but he thought that Warren & Co would need to compare 
Mr Bs actual situation with that he would otherwise have been in, but for the unsuitable 
advice. This may, he said, need to involve an actuary, due to Mr B having obtained fund 
growth on contributions he wouldnt have made if hed been suitably advised.
And as to Warren & Cos query relating to how Mr B had paid the tax charge, the investigator 
said that it was out of his own pocket, but that hed needed to access pension benefits to pay 
this. And those funds were therefore not longer available for their intended purpose.
The investigator amended his redress proposal, saying that Warren & Co would need to 
establish Mr Bs relevant earnings for the tax years 2018/19, 2019/20 and 2020/21 and the 
maximum amount he could have contributed with those relevant earnings. 
If he could have contributed the full £45,000, then no growth on those contributions should 
be used to offset the loss on the tax charge, he said. But if the maximum tax relievable 
contributions had been lower that £45,000, then Mr B had received growth on extra 
contributions which wouldnt have been made if hed been suitably advised, and this should 
be used to offset the tax charge loss.
Th investigator said that, in the first instance, any loss should be paid into Mr Bs pension 
plan, but if this wasnt possible or had implications for his annual allowance or any 
protections in place, this should be paid directly to him with a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have otherwise paid on the pension benefit.
Warren & Co considered the investigators points, and said that Mr B had been a company 
director for many years and was fully aware of how he was paid and how his pension 
contributions were calculated.
Further, it said, Mr B had confirmed his income in a fact find document.
It remained of the view that Mr B hadnt lost out financially and that he had in fact made a substantial gain. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it said that it would offer Mr B £500 to 
cover the trouble and upset caused, plus a return of the fee that it received from the product 
provider, amounting to £1,200. This, it said, would be in full and final settlement of the 
matter.
The investigator put the offer to Mr B, but he declined to accept it. As such, as agreement 
hadnt been reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 31 October 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I thought the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract from 
that decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. But the redress calculation Im proposing is slightly different, as set out 
below.
I agree with Warren & Co in that Mr B is more likely than not to have been aware of how he 
was paid, but I dont think this automatically reads across into an understanding of what this 
meant for his pension contributions. The annual allowance and what might constitute 
relevant earnings arent straightforward matters, and are issues which a consumer such as 
Mr B might quite reasonably be reliant upon a firm such as Warren & Co to navigate on his 
behalf.
Further, Mr B may have been a company director, but I dont think this would necessarily 
bestow upon him any particular knowledge of pension matters. And if it did, it seems unlikely 
that he would have needed to pay for the services of Warren & Co in the first place.
I also acknowledge that Mr B confirmed his income in the fact find, but I cant see that he 
confirmed anywhere that he was being paid on an exclusively PAYE basis. And I agree with 
the investigator in that, had he been directly asked that question, he would have been in a 
position to clarify the matter or direct it to his accountant if necessary.
I think that Warren & Co needed to do more here to determine Mr Bs actual source of 
income, and so, as with the investigator, I think the complaint should be upheld.
Ive then thought carefully about the manner of calculating whether Mr B has incurred a loss, 
and I think Warren & Co makes a good point about the prospect of the combination of the 
contributions themselves, along with the tax relief and the associated growth on both, 
possibly more than offsetting the loss which Mr B might have incurred through needing to 
draw upon his pension plan to fund the tax charges. And I also acknowledge the offer it 
made to Mr B towards resolving the matter.
But theres only one way of being certain of whether Mr B has suffered a loss which exceeds 
the offer made by Warren & Co, and that is to piece together what should have happened 
and compare it with what has actually happened.
Putting things right
And so to that end, Warren & Co should determine the notional value of Mr Bs pension plan, 
as at the date of any final decision along these lines, had he contributed the maximum 
amount possible on the basis of his relevant earnings for the appropriate tax years here, so 
2018/19 to 2020/21, and on the basis of investment on the dates that he actually made the contributions, and a hypothetical investment date for 2019/20 being the maximum possible 
on 31 August 2019 (a year after the contribution in 2018/19).
This calculation should include the tax relief which would have been received on the basis of 
those contributions, and the relevant investment dates of that tax relief. Warren & Co will 
likely need to approach the pension provider to construct the notional value as directed here.
If these contributions would have been lower than those actually made by Mr B, its likely 
that Mr B would have invested the difference until he was later able to contribute it to his 
pension plan. And so in response to this provisional decision, Id be grateful if Mr B would 
provide details of any savings plan/vehicle which he may have been using to hold 
excess/emergency funds which werent being directed into the pension plan.
Warren & Co will then need to calculate the cumulative growth, according to that savings 
plan/vehicle, on the difference between the amounts which Mr B should have contributed 
according to his relevant earnings and what he actually contributed, from the date that the 
difference in amounts would have been invested, to either the date that they would have 
been removed to fund the pension payments, or if any excess amount of it would have 
needed to be retained in savings, to the date of any final decision along these lines.
That total notional value should then be compared to the actual value of Mr Bs pension 
policy, as at the date of any final decision along these lines, which will take into account all of 
the relevant factors which have taken place, i.e. the actual contributions, the actual tax relief 
received and the actual withdrawal to pay for the tax charge.
If the notional amount is higher, then Mr B will have suffered a loss, and as directed by the 
investigator, this should in the first instance be paid into Mr Bs pension plan if possible, 
subject to annual allowance restrictions or any protections in place, and taking account of 
any available tax relief and charges which might be levied.
If it cant be paid to the pension plan, it should be paid to Mr B directly, but with the same 
notional basic rate deduction as recommended by the investigator on 75% of the 
compensation  so an overall deduction of 15%.
I also agree that this will have been a worrying period for Mr B, and the prospect of needing 
to pay a tax charge will Im sure have been quite stressful. Mr B has also needed to draw 
upon his pension savings to pay the tax charge. And so I agree that an amount of £500 is 
probably about right here. I leave it to Warren & Co to decide whether it also refunds the fee 
received from the pension provider  this doesnt form part of my proposed award as I think 
the above calculation should properly determine whether a loss has occurred here, and as 
this reflects a situation of what should have happened, i.e. suitable advice, Mr B would 
reasonably have paid a fee for this.
In response, Mr B said that he held a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA), 
but otherwise would have invested non-pension contributions into National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I).
Warren & Co said the following:
It didnt have the details of Mr Bs taxable income for the 2019/20 and 2020/21 tax 
years, which means that it couldnt calculate exactly the pension contributions which 
Mr B would have made in those tax years.
But it had used an average of his taxable income over the previous four years - 
£6,961 for 2015/16, £12,579 for 2016/2017, £8,995 for 2017/18 and £8,314 for 2018/19  to determine an average taxable gross income of £9,212. It had used this 
to assume the maximum pension contributions for the 2019/20 and 2020/21 tax 
years.
Mr B could therefore have made a maximum net pension contribution of £7,369 in 
2019/20 and 2020/21, and £6,651 for 2018/19.
This equated to a maximum overall pension contribution over the three tax years of 
£21,390 net, and £26,738 gross. Mr B could therefore have received tax relief over 
the three years of £5,348.
Mr B actually made contributions of £30,000 net (£37,500 gross) in the 2018/19 tax 
year, £30,000 (£37,500 gross) in the 2019/20 tax year, £15,000 (£18,750 gross) in 
the 2020/21 tax year and £15,000 (£18,750 gross) in the 2020/21 tax year. 
This amounted to a total of £90,000 net, and £112,500 gross, and so Mr B benefitted 
from £22,500 tax relief over those tax years.
Mr B had therefore benefitted from an additional tax relief of £17,152 (£22,500 - 
£5,358) by making the contributions he did, rather than those he ought to have done 
according to his actual assumed taxable income for those years.
It couldnt provide a current valuation of Mr Bs pension fund as it no longer held the 
servicing rights to Mr Bs plan. But it had tried to reconstruct the value, based upon 
Mr Bs actual and notional contributions and investment in the Governed Portfolio 8 
with Royal London.
Based upon performance figures of 6.45% between March 2018 and March 2019, -
10.64% between March 2019 and March 2020, 24.99% between March 2020 and 
March 2021, and 13.31% between March 2021 and March 2022, then according to 
the assumed notional contributions he could have made, the fund value would have 
been around £31,386 by the end of March 2021.
As Mr B didnt have any other investments, such as an ISA, into which he could have 
redirected his overpaid pension contributions, it could only assume that they would 
have remained on deposit.
The Bank interest rate in September 2018 was around 0.75% pa gross, and so the 
additional £68,610 which had been overpaid to the pension would have been valued 
at around £70,164.
The total notional value of Mr Bs pension fund and the money held on deposit would 
therefore be £101,550.
In terms of the likely actual value of the pension fund, Mr B invested £37,500 gross 
into his pension in the 2018/19 tax year, and this could have been valued at around 
£38,707 by the end of March 2019.
The pension fund would then have been valued at around £34,589, assuming fund 
performance of -10.64%, as Mr B didnt invest an additional pension contribution of 
£37,500 gross until March 2020  near the end of the 2019/20 tax year.
Mr B then invested an additional £37,500 gross at the beginning of the 2020/21 tax 
year.This meant that the potential fund value of his pension could have been around 
£142,122 by April 2021.
The potential difference in the pension fund value between the actual contributions 
Mr B made over the three tax years and the maximum contributions he should have 
made amounted to £40,572, this being £142,122 - £101,550. 
Mr B had needed to pay an annual allowance charge of £9,445, so Mr B had likely 
benefitted by around £31,127. And so it appeared that Mr B hadnt made a financial 
loss by making the contributions he did.
The initial fees and annual management charge deducted by Royal London hadnt 
been taken into account in the calculations, but a further relevant point was that Mr B 
received a 0.4% reduction in the annual management charge as his plan exceeded 
£32,800 in 2018. If Mr B had contributed the maximum that his taxable income would 
allow, the annual management charge would have been 0.9% pa.
A further point to bear in mind was that, as a mutual company, Royal London 
distributes its profits back to its policyholders each year via its profit share scheme, 
and this allocation was determined by the size of the pension fund. And so Mr B 
would have benefited further from the higher pension fund value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for the further information provided. I note that Warren & Co 
hasnt specifically commented on the merits of the case, instead focussing on the calculation 
to determine whether Mr B has incurred a financial loss.
And so it follows that my conclusions as to why the complaint should be upheld remain the 
same. I think that Warren & Co could and should have done more to determine Mr Bs actual 
source of income.
But it has nevertheless made a persuasive case for there being no ultimate loss to Mr B as a 
result of the overpaid pension contributions, albeit using certain assumptions as to taxable 
income for the relevant tax years and fund growth within the pension plan.
I think to satisfy Mr B that he hasnt incurred a loss based on the actual income and growth 
figures, Warren & Co should undertake the calculation based upon those real figures. This 
will mean that it should request the income details from Mr B, along with his authority to seek 
the actual plan value from Royal London. This will then factor in fund growth, after the effect 
of any plan charges, along with any benefit Mr B will have received from the profit share 
scheme.
As to the alternative investment vehicle which Mr B would have used to redirect the overpaid 
pension contributions, although Warren & Co has said that Mr B didnt have an ISA, Mr B 
has provided evidence of an ISA he currently holds. And so it seems reasonable to me that, 
even if he didnt have an ISA in the relevant tax years, he would have opened one to receive 
the redirected pension contributions. And I further think its reasonable to assume he would 
have invested in the same kind of ISA as he currently holds, and in the same funds.
If Mr B did already hold an ISA, however, he should provide Warren & Co with details as to 
its funding level in the relevant tax years. Mr B has indicated that, if the contributions hadnt been paid into an ISA, he would instead have invested them in NS&I, which seems broadly 
consistent with Warren & Cos assumption that the funds would have been retained on 
deposit. 
There were several options within NS&I, but I think the most likely and comparative 
investment would have been the fixed rate bonds. Mr B wouldnt have had the facility of 
instant access within the pension plan, nor would he have received an income as would 
have been available from NS&Is income bonds.
Putting things right
Warren & Co (Complete Financial Solutions) Ltd should undertake the direction as set out in 
the provisional decision, but taking into account what Ive said above about the alternative 
investment vehicle for the redirected pension contributions.
The calculation should be undertaken as at the date of this final decision. On the basis of the 
information Warren & Co (Complete Financial Solutions) Ltd has provided, I think its unlikely 
that Mr B will have suffered a financial loss, but if the calculation shows that he has, the 
compensation should be paid within 30 days of Warren & Co (Complete Financial Solutions) 
Ltd being notified of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision.
If it isnt, simple interest at 8% pa should be added to the compensation amount from the 
date of this decision to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Warren & Co (Complete Financial 
Solutions) Ltd to undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman