DRN-2062775
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on our 
website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided that Mrs Hs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs H says she thought she had to have the PPI, and that Egg didnt give her a proper 
choice about buying it. 
But Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process 
where PPI wouldve been offered to Mrs H. This shows that she wouldve had to 
choose whether she wanted PPI or not before she could continue with her application. 
Eggs record of the application data shows that Mrs H selected the PPI. So I think Egg 
made her aware the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Mrs H says that she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer, and her husband would have helped if things went wrong. But Egg didnt 
recommend the policy to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it 
was suitable for her. As Mrs H chose to take the PPI, I think she wanted to protect her 
repayments against illness and unemployment.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. Mrs H says she had good employee benefits, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to these. The policy was also competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Which means Egg does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman