DRN-3491081
The complaint
Mr C says Starling Bank Limited (SBL) mis-handled the expiry of the debit card that was 
linked to his current account.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr C was unable to carry out an investment transaction on his debit card 
after it expired and wasnt renewed due to inactivity. He said this was caused by SBLs 
failure to adequately notify him of the upcoming expiry and had cost him £500 in relation to 
the investment. Mr C wanted compensation for that and for SBL to change its operating 
model and reduce its reliance on in-app notifications. He complained via its live chat 
function. 
SBL didnt uphold the complaint because it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. SBL said it 
had sent him a message via its app in October 2021 explaining that the card would expire 
due to six months inactivity unless he used it within two weeks. Two weeks later the card 
still hadnt been used and so it expired without being renewed. But SBL did tell him it would 
consider its procedures regarding how it would communicate with customers about card 
inactivity and renewal. 
Unhappy with SBLs response, Mr C complained to us. Our investigator assessed the 
complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They were satisfied that SBL was 
entitled to contact Mr C via the app. The investigator didnt think it was fair to hold SBL 
responsible if, for reasons beyond its control, Mr C hadnt seen the message hed been sent 
or acted on it.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings. He said SBL should have made more 
attempts, using alternative methods of communication, to contact him about the card. He felt 
the arguments hed raised had been ignored by the investigator.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr Cs debit card had been inactive for at least six months in the lead 
up to October 2021. What is in dispute, however, is what happened at that point. 
On the one hand, we have Mr Cs testimony which Ive considered very carefully. He says 
SBL didnt contact him and that he only discovered his card had expired and not been 
replaced when he tried to arrange an investment using the card in February 2022. On the 
other hand, SBL says it sent Mr C a message about the card via its app. 
I dont doubt what Mr C says about being unaware of the status of the card in October 2021 
or until February 2022. But the evidence does indicate to me that SBL attempted to reach 
him as it says it did. I say that because its provided a screenshot of the message it sent him 
at 00:38 on the day in question in October 2021. The email address referred to on the 
screenshot matches Mr Cs email address. The message reads:
Did you know your cards expiry date is coming up?
As you havent used it in the last six months, just spend on your card within the next 
two weeks and well know that you want us to send you a replacement.
Dont have access to the card anymore? You can request a new one in the Card 
section of your app. Dont worry, you dont need to reply to this message.
As SBL didnt hear from Mr C or register any spending on the card within the two-week 
period provided, the card expired. I consider that SBL acted fairly in allowing the card to 
expire given the notice it had provided Mr C with.
Mr C says SBL should have made further attempts to contact him via alternative means, for 
example by email or letter. I can see Mr Cs point and can understand how frustrating it 
would have been for him to discover after the event that his debit card had been allowed to 
expire without renewal. But I think its important to understand how Starling operates to give 
context to this complaint.
Essentially, SBLs whats known as a challenger bank  a term sometimes used to refer to 
small, relatively new banks that compete against more established high street banks in the 
UK. These banks tend to have less of a high street presence, or none at all, and instead 
place more emphasis on technology in their interactions with customers. I gather SBL mainly 
serves its customers through mobile banking apps. Its via one of these apps that SBL 
contacted Mr C in October 2021 about the imminent expiry of his card and the next steps.
Given how SBL and its customers generally interact, and in the absence of any reason for it 
to do things differently for Mr C, I think it reasonable that it chose to contact him about the 
debit card solely via its app. I dont think this was unforeseeable or unusual in the 
circumstances. I understand that it might also have been open for SBL to contact Mr C by 
other means, but I dont consider there was any legal or regulatory requirement for it to do 
so. Nor do I find that the course of action SBL took meant it had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.  
Mr Cs asked us to force a change in how SBL operates. But even if I believed it had done 
something wrong in this case (which I dont), I wouldnt be able to order the change hed like 
to see. Thats because although I have the power to make certain directions and awards by 
way of compensation in individual cases, this service doesnt regulate the financial services 
industry, of which SBL is a part. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
the industry regulator. Having said that, I note SBLs recorded Mr Cs feedback and has 
agreed to review its current procedures regarding the services it provides its customers. 
Taking everything into account, and while Im aware that this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, I dont believe SBLs acted unfairly in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman