DRN-3053940
The complaint
Miss F and Miss R complain that advice given to them by Connells Limited about 
remortgaging in 2020 led to them having to pay an early repayment charge to their previous 
lender. And they were unhappy with the service Connells provided.
 
What happened
In 2018 Miss F and Miss R approached Connells as first-time buyers for advice on taking out 
a mortgage. They paid fees for the service Connells provided in arranging the mortgage and 
for mortgage advice to be provided on an ongoing basis over their lifetimes.
In June 2018 the lender, whom Ill refer to as the previous lender, issued a mortgage offer 
which set out that Miss F and Miss R would benefit from a fixed interest rate product for a 
period of two years from completion of the mortgage.
In May 2020, Connells sent Miss F and Miss R a letter suggesting they get in touch to 
discuss re-mortgaging as their fixed interest rate product would be coming to an end in the 
next few months. Miss F and Miss R arranged a meeting at a Connells branch and began to 
discuss re-mortgaging. 
Miss F and Miss R wanted to borrow an additional amount to provide funds for some home 
improvements they planned to carry out. Connells recommended they take out a mortgage 
with a different lender and made the arrangements.
In July 2020 Miss F and Miss Rs solicitors told them theyd have to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) to redeem the existing mortgage with the previous lender. Theyd been going 
ahead with the re-mortgage on the understanding the fixed interest rate product they had for 
their previous mortgage would come to an end on 31 July 2020. Connells advised 
Miss F and Miss R to ask the existing lender what the correct positions was. It turned out the 
fixed rate didnt end until November 2020.
Miss F and Miss R had made arrangements for builders to come and carry out works on the 
basis theyd have completed the re-mortgage at the end of July and obtained the necessary 
funds before the works started. Because of that, they decided to go ahead and completed at 
the beginning of August.
Miss F and Miss R were unhappy with the service Connells had provided and felt theyd had 
to pay the ERC because Connells hadnt advised them properly about when the fixed 
interest rate product ended. 
Miss F and Miss R complained to Connells, but Connells didnt uphold their complaint, so 
they brought their complaint to this service. To put things right Miss F and Miss R wanted 
Connells to pay them the amount of the ERC, around £1,200, to refund the fee of £99 theyd 
paid for the service in arranging the remortgage and to compensate them for the poor 
service Connells had provided. 
Our investigator thought the service Connells provided was poor and theyd missed 
opportunities to check the position regarding the ERC. She said Connells should pay £350 to 
compensate Miss F and Miss R for the poor service. She didnt think Connells should pay 
the ERC since it looked as if the previous lender may have got the end date of the fixed 
interest rate product wrong. Further enquiries showed the previous lenders hadnt made a 
mistake, but our investigator didnt change her mind about the outcome. She felt the fee for 
the remortgage shouldnt be refunded as this had gone ahead.
Miss F and Miss R accepted our investigators view, but Connells didnt agree theyd done 
anything wrong and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has been passed to 
me to review afresh.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Connells have explained Miss F and Miss R paid a one-off lifetime broker fee for free future 
mortgage advice. They say the letter they sent Miss F and Miss R in May 2020 was a 
standard letter sent as part of that service inviting them to get in touch to discuss 
remortgaging. Connells note the letter said Miss F and Miss Rs fixed interest rate product 
was due to come to an end in the next few months but didnt specify an actual date.
Connells say the mortgage adviser Miss F and Miss R met to discuss the remortgage 
wouldnt have been able to access their records relating to the previous mortgage due to 
data protection restrictions and relied on Miss F and Miss R for information about it. The fact 
find document, recording the information Miss F and Miss R gave Connells, said the fixed 
interest rate product was due to end in July 2020.
Connells say it wasnt until solicitors had been instructed to deal with the remortgage that 
they were aware the fixed interest rate product ran until November 2020 and that an ERC 
would have to be paid if the previous mortgage was redeemed before then. Connells 
suggested Miss F and Miss R check the position with the previous lender.
Miss F and Miss R decided to go ahead and complete the remortgage in early August 2020 
knowing theyd have to pay the ERC. Connells argue Miss F and Miss R could have delayed 
and avoided paying the ERC. Connells dont agree they should pay it.
Miss F and Miss G have explained that when they first approached Connells in 2018 as first-
time buyers they did so because they wanted help to guide them through a process that was 
unfamiliar to them. Miss F and Miss R say they relied on Connells to manage the 
remortgage process as well. They say theyd felt pressured by Connells during the 
remortgage process to act quickly because things were taking longer due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Miss F and Miss R say theyd arranged for builders to carry out works and paid a deposit for 
that, so had to go ahead with the remortgage in August and incur the ERC. 
Ive thought carefully about what the parties have said and have balanced their arguments to 
come to a decision which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Given Miss F and Miss R had paid for a lifetime mortgage advice service from Connells, Id 
expect Connells to have kept records, including information about the initial mortgage and 
interest rate product. The fact Connells issued a reminder to Miss F and Miss R to review their mortgage 
arrangements suggests to me they did keep records about their previous mortgage. I 
imagine Connells had set themselves a reminder to generate the May letter to avoid Miss F 
and Miss R being in a situation where their fixed interest rate product had ended and they 
didnt have enough time to arrange a new one before reverting to a more expensive rate.
I think the adviser Miss F and Miss R consulted could have accessed information about the 
previous mortgage if Miss F and Miss R had given them permission. Even if they couldnt, Id 
expect the adviser to have checked carefully whether the information Miss F and Miss R 
gave about when the fixed interest rate product was ending was correct. And I think Connells 
could and should have found out sooner when the fixed interest rate product was ending. 
Although Miss F and Miss R were taking the opportunity to borrow more money, obtaining a 
new fixed rate product to avoid paying a higher rate of interest was part of the reason for 
remortgaging when they did. Id expect Connells to have found out whether or when an ERC 
was payable at the start of the process. And I think they should have taken steps to get 
documentary evidence of that, not just relied on what Miss F and Miss R told them. 
The mortgage offer Miss F and Miss R got in June 2018 in relation to their previous 
mortgage set out, in what I think were clear terms, that the fixed rate interest product would 
run for two years from completion of the mortgage. Miss F and Miss R argue Connells, who 
arranged that mortgage, would have known about delays that occurred in completing it and 
should have realised the fixed rate would run from completion and come to an end later than 
July. 
The annual mortgage statements Miss F and Miss R have provided show clearly when the 
fixed interest rate ended  in November 2020. But the statement Connells have on their file 
seems to be a summary. It shows the end date of the mortgage as being November 2048 
but doesnt set out information about the term of the fixed rate product. I dont think the 
summary necessarily gave enough information for Connells to work out when the fixed rate 
would end. 
But, even if Connells didnt have the mortgage offer or annual mortgage statements, I think 
the adviser should have done more by, for example, asking Miss F and Miss R for 
documentary evidence, accessing their own file with Miss F and Miss Rs permission or 
checking the position with the previous lender to make sure they knew when the fixed 
interest rate came to an end and whether or not an ERC was payable. 
I think, with Miss F and Miss Rs authority, Connells could have contacted the previous 
lender on their behalf to check the correct position about the ERC certainly once the solicitor 
had pointed out an ERC was appearing on the redemption statement. This would have been 
good service and part of what I think Miss F and Miss R were entitled to expect given the 
service they were paying for. That would have meant Miss F and Miss R avoided the trouble 
of speaking to the previous lender themselves.
I am mindful Miss F and Miss R had the statements themselves so could have checked them 
before giving Connells the information that was included in the fact find. I think the 
statements were clear enough for Miss F and Miss R to know the correct date as to when 
the fixed interest rate product ended. I bear this in mind in coming to my conclusion about 
how to put things right. But, as Ive said, I think responsibility for checking the information 
rested with Connells. 
Overall, I think the service provided by Connells could have been better. They should have 
taken steps to check more carefully initially the date the fixed interest rate product came to 
an end and carried out enquiries about that themselves when the solicitors told them an ERC was payable. I think Miss F and Miss R were put under unnecessary pressure to move 
quickly to complete the remortgage in July and suffered the disappointment of then feeling 
obliged to pay the ERC because of the arrangements theyd made for works to be carried 
out. As a result, I think it is fair to compensate them for the poor service they received. And I 
think £350 is a reasonable sum for that.
I acknowledge Miss F and Miss R had made arrangements for works to be carried out after 
the remortgage had completed, expecting that to be in the summer. But there are risks that 
mortgage applications wont always go smoothly or in line with expected time frames, so I 
think paying upfront for works was at their own risk. And they decided to complete knowing 
they had to pay the ERC. So, on balance, I dont think Connells should have to pay for that. 
Given the remortgage did go ahead, I think it is fair for Connells to have been paid a fee for 
the service they provided for that, so I dont think this should be reimbursed. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think the fair outcome is for Connells to pay Miss F and Miss R 
compensation of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service they 
provided.    
My final decision
I direct Connells Limited to pay Miss F and Miss R £350 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience within 28 days of them accepting this decision should they choose to do so.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman