DRN-2536194
The complaint
Mr A brings a complaint on behalf of N, a limited company, in his role as director. The 
complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew a lending facility after it had already been 
agreed.
 
What happened
Mr A approached Barclays about a loan of £25,000 for N and a facility letter was sent to him 
on 11 October 2018. The letter included all of the terms and conditions pertaining to the 
lending. 
Mr A signed the agreement on behalf of N on 19 November 2018 and returned it to the bank. 
But Mr A had put down his personal account details as the destination account for the loan 
funds and not the details of N. So the application couldnt proceed. New documents were 
sent but werent returned to the bank.
In February 2019 Mr A asked that the lending be increased to £28,000. A new application 
had to be made because of the increased amount.
Barclays carried out further checks at this stage and decided to decline any lending. Mr A 
objected to this decision on Ns behalf. That objection has led to this complaint.
Barclays wrote to N to explain its position. It said in an email dated 19 March 2019:
On the 8 February your application for borrowing of £28,000 was declined. This was a 
commercial decision where we have considered a number of factors including the results of 
our Due Diligence activities which includes checks with Credit Reference and Fraud 
Prevention Agencies such as Experian, National Hunter and CIFAS, and based on the 
results from this we have made a decision to also withdraw you loan offer of £25,000. As a 
bank we are entitled to withdraw an offer at any time prior to the loan being accepted. You 
may wish to make you own enquiries with the above agencies to ensure any information 
they hold on you is correct, factual an accurate.
Barclays also said in a later letter, dated 28 March 2019:
it was a commercial decision to decline your application and withdraw our offer of £25,000. 
As outlined in my email to you dated 19 March, our decision is based on a number of factors 
which include the results of our Due Diligence activities and other internal/external checks 
that were carried out.
In July 2019 the bank also decided to close Ns business bank account. 
Mr A brought Ns complaint to this service on the basis that:
Barclays had unfairly withdrawn the lending offer and it had broken a legally binding 
agreement in doing so;
Barclays had caused a significant loss to N as a result of withdrawing the lending;
No reason had been given for the closure of the business banking accounts;
The bank had failed to comply with, in his words, Freedom of Information and Data 
Protection access.
One of our investigators considered Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. He said the decision 
to withdraw the lending was fair and reasonable in so much as the bank had exercised its 
own commercial judgement following due diligence checks. He said that the withdrawal of 
the lending offer was allowed for within the terms and conditions. And he noted that the 
original lending agreement had never been properly executed due to the paperwork not 
being completed correctly or in time.  
He also thought the bank had acted fairly in closing Ns business bank account, given it had 
abided by the terms and conditions of the account and given two months notice.
Mr A did not wish to accept the outcome on behalf of N and so the case has been referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
My reasons for not upholding Ns complaint are along the same lines as those set out by our 
investigator. The first point to confirm is that there was no binding lending agreement in 
place. The original paperwork completed by Mr A was filled in incorrectly and so couldnt be 
processed. That was because Mr A put down his personal account details instead of Ns 
business account details.
Its also the case that the offer had expired. The agreement needed to be accepted by N 
within 30 days of the facility letter being sent. This term is clearly stipulated in the facility 
letter (or Key Terms) where it says:
The offer of the Facility is available for acceptance until the date falling 30 days after the 
date of the Key Terms.
The letter was sent on 11 October 2018 but not signed by Mr A until 19 November 2018. 
Thats outside of the 30 days and so there was no valid agreement in place. 
Mr A has referred to a different term within the facility letter/Key Terms where it says:
The Borrower may draw the Loan (in one amount) once the Agreement is accepted. The 
Borrower's right to draw the Loan shall cease after the Final Date for Drawing or on such 
later date as the Bank may agree.
The facility letter/Key Terms set the Final Date for Drawing is stated as 11 April 2019. 
However, that would only apply if the agreement was properly accepted and executed, which 
it wasnt. There was no right to draw loan funds established. 
There are also terms and conditions relevant to the bank exercising its commercial 
judgement to decline lending as a result of its due diligence checks. Those most relevant to this complaint are set out in the general loan terms and conditions which state:
5.1 The Facility may be drawn down by the Borrower provided that, before the first drawing, 
the Bank or the Security Trustee has received in form and substance satisfactory to it:
(a) the Key Terms signed by the parties to it;
(b) any evidence required for the purposes of any "know your customer", "know your
business" or other similar checks;
In light of these clear terms and conditions that were in place I cant see that the bank has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here. And I dont find that Barclays ought to provide further 
explanation than it already has.
The same is true of the closure of the business bank account, and for broadly the same 
reasons. The terms and conditions of that account allow for the bank to have closed it, 
without giving reason, by giving two months notice. The bank served that notice and 
proceeded to close the account. 
I can appreciate these matters may have caused frustration to Mr A and difficulties for N. But 
theres nothing to suggest that Barclays has acted outside of the terms and conditions that 
were in place or that its acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The final issue is that of what Mr A has described as the banks failure to comply with 
Freedom of Information and Data Protection access. I can see the bank did write to him 
following his request for information, setting out why it couldnt comply with his request as far 
as N was concerned. Beyond that I dont believe this service is the suitable organisation to 
deal with a complaint about the banks failure to comply with data protection and information 
access breaches. He may wish to refer such matters to the Information Commissioners 
Office.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman