DRN-2031537
The complaint
Mr M says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M had one loan with Mr Lender in November 2018. The loan was for £300 and was 
repayable in six monthly instalments.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Mr Lender hadnt acted irresponsibly when it lent to Mr M. And he also pointed out that it 
appeared Mr M had repaid less than £300 towards his debt and wasnt being pursued any 
further  so Mr M hadnt lost out financially and wouldnt be entitled to refund in any event. 
Mr Lender also said it would amend Mr Ms credit file, putting Mr M in the same position hed 
have been in if hed never been given the loan.
Mr M has asked that an ombudsman review this, so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Mr Lender has shown us that it asked Mr M some questions about his income and 
expenditure before it lent to him. Mr M declared net monthly income of £2,500 and total 
monthly expenditure of about £1,500. In theory, this left Mr M with disposable income of 
around £1,000 a month.
While that seems like a large amount of disposable income for someone wishing to borrow 
only £300, I dont think Mr Lender needed to question this information to the extent that it 
ought to have required Mr M to provide some proof of income and expenditure. Instead, it 
provided a loan with a maximum individual instalment of around £144  significantly less 
than the information provided by Mr M suggested he could afford. I think that was a 
reasonable decision and so I dont think Mr Lender lent to Mr M irresponsibly.
Importantly, there is also information to suggest Mr Ms debt has effectively been written off 
 and that at the point it was written off, hed repaid less than the £300 he borrowed. This 
would mean that not only was Mr M not worse off as a result of Mr Lenders decision to lend 
to him, he may in fact be slightly better off. In these circumstances, even if Mr Lender had 
lent to him irresponsibly, it would still be unlikely Id uphold his complaint  especially as 
Mr Lender has been quite generous and even offered to amend Mr Ms credit history. Mr M 
will need to contact Mr Lender to find out if that offer is still on the table.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman