DRN-3249773
The complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms B complained to HSBC that the fees it applied to her account caused her financial 
difficulty. HSBC says the charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account and didnt uphold the complaint. And as Ms B was dis-satisfied she referred 
the complaint to our service.
Ms Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Ms B was experiencing financial difficulty by 1 September 2017 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
HSBC didnt agree. It said that Ms B had a healthy income and was aware of her balance 
and that it had written to her asking her to contact it if she felt a need for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Ms Bs 
overdraft from 1 September 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms B was in 
no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
It was clear that Ms B was having difficulty managing her money. Ms B hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. 
Ms Bs statements show that even after her salary was paid in once she had paid her bills 
she was continually heavily into her overdraft and was making internal transfers in and out of 
the account in order to manage this and another overdraft held with HSBC. She was clearly 
using her overdraft to make ends meet as she was reliant on it to meet essential payments. 
So I think that Ms Bs overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that Ms 
B wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Ms B was at a 
significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with 
forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to her 
overdraft. As HSBC didnt react to Ms Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in 
the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Ms B fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 September 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Ms 
B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Ms Bs credit file, HSBC should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 1 September 
2017. HSBC can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Ms B over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Bs credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Ms Bs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman