DRN-2895627
The complaint
Mr B has complained to Aviva Life and Pensions Limited (Aviva) that he was unable to buy 
an investment through his SIPP platform, despite his balance showing that he had sufficient 
funds available. .
What happened
Mr B holds a SIPP with Aviva which he manages through a MyAviva online account. On 19 
October 2020, Mr B tried to complete a buy trade for £10,000. At the time, his account 
balance was showing as £21,134.05. However, he was unable to place the buy trade as a 
message said he had insufficient funds. 
Mr B complained to Aviva as he felt this was a breach of trust and he believed the error 
would cause him to lose out on around £2000. Aviva reviewed the complaint and issued a 
final response. It said that a sell trade that Mr B had placed on 15 October for £20,000 
hadnt cleared by the time Mr B had tried place the buy trade on the 19 October. The sell 
trade didnt settled until 20 October. It explained that it takes 5 working days for a trade to 
complete but the funds will show on the front screen balance before they are actually 
available to use. However, if you try to complete a trade, the true cash balance will be 
shown. Aviva said this was the case for Mr B, the true cash balance was displayed when he 
tried to place the buy trade. And this showed that there were insufficient funds available.
Mr B remained unhappy so he referred his complaint to our service for review. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.  
The investigator wrote to Mr B, setting out a full timeline of trades and explaining the impact 
these had on his cash balance.  The investigator was satisfied that Mr B had insufficient 
funds when he tried to place the buy trade on 19 October. And that although the cash 
balance showed what the upcoming balance would be once the trade was settled, the actual 
funds available were shown when Mr B tried to complete the trade.  As the investigator didnt 
think Aviva had made an error, she didnt think it was responsible for any investment loss 
Mr B claimed to have suffered. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary hes said that Aviva should 
compensate him for the webpage showing an inaccurate balance and the enormous 
confusion it created. He said that Aviva should be made to pay a penalty for its extremely 
poor system and if he didnt receive a refund he would appeal. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to explain the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Having reviewed all the available information, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong so 
I dont think it needs to do anything to put matters right. Ill explain why. 
It no longer seems to be in dispute that Mr B didnt have sufficient funds available when he 
tried to place the buy trade on 19 October. However, for completeness, I have reviewed the 
timeline of trades and Im satisfied that Mr Bs cash balance on this date was £1,029.77. So 
there were insufficient funds available in the cash account to place a buy trade for £10,000.  
However, Mr B is unhappy because the system showed that he had a cash balance of 
£21,134.05. So, although he now knows this wasnt the case, he believed he did have the 
funds and he says that Avivas poor system caused confusion.  
I can appreciate that it would have been confusing seeing the initial balance of £21,134.05 
but then being advised that there were insufficient funds available to place the trade. 
However, I can see that on the screen where Mr B tried to complete the trade, the correct 
funds available (£1,029.77) were showing. So I do think it ought to have been clear at this 
point that Mr B wouldnt be able to go ahead with the trade as he didnt have the funds. 
Mr B would like Aviva to pay him compensation. He initially asked for £2000 to cover the 
investment loss he believed hed suffered as a result of the trade not being placed. But Mr B 
didnt have sufficient funds to place the trade so I wont be asking Aviva to cover this.
I also dont think Aviva needs to pay Mr B any compensation for confusion caused as a 
result of the balance showing trades that were yet to complete. Its not uncommon for 
accounts to show expected balances and in this case the correct available funds amount 
was clearly displayed, albeit on a different screen, which Mr B would have viewed when 
placing/or attempting to place his trade.  
Mr B may not like the way Avivas system works. But its not my role to tell Aviva how its 
system needs to operate. And as it was working as it should have done on this occasion, Im 
not upholding the complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman