DRN-2490071
The complaint
Miss M complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited trading as Selftrade (Equiniti) did 
not send information by post relating to her account and failed to inform her of a corporate 
action when she called them. She says she suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
In January 2018 Miss M called Equiniti to update her address details and to ask about tax 
implications on the sale of shares. The representative updated the address details but 
referred Miss M to HMRC about the questions on tax. During the call, the representative 
made Miss M aware that she had not logged into her account since the migration of the 
service to Equiniti in 2015. A Personal Information Number (PIN) was issued to Miss M so 
she could access her account and she was made aware that she needed to provide consent 
to the new terms and conditions before she could trade on the account. 
Miss M called Equiniti on 23 April 2019 to ask about her dealing account. The representative 
told her that she held 778 shares in a company that I will call Company A. Miss M was also 
told that she had £2,873.28 in cash. The value of her shares was £37,569. Miss M asked if 
the cash balance was from dividends and it was confirmed that the cash value was from 
dividends accruing since 2015. During this call, the representative said that when the 
account was migrated to Equiniti she had not consented to the transfer. In order to access 
the account, she was given another PIN and asked to review the terms and conditions and 
accept them.
Equiniti used a secure message facility to correspond with clients and on 3 June 2019 sent a 
secure message to Miss Ms dealing account regarding a Tender Offer in Company A. A 
further secure message was sent on 24 June about the Tender Offer.
Miss M called Equiniti on 27 September 2019 to ask about a special dividend in Company A. 
The representative couldnt find any information on the companys website and referred Miss 
M to the Registrar for Company A and provided Miss M with their telephone number.
Miss M called Equiniti on 1 November 2019 and asked about the special dividend for 
Company A. She said that it should have been paid and she had not received any postal 
communication about it. The representative provided details of the tender offer and 
explained that the information was sent by secure message to her account. Miss M 
confirmed that she had never accessed any secure messages in the 17 years that she held 
the account. Miss M said that she had wanted to sell the shares and had lost money whilst 
waiting for the special dividend.
A complaint was logged, and Miss M asked for the statements relating to her account to be 
posted to her. Miss M said that she had accessed her account but couldnt find anything 
regarding the special dividend or tender offer and felt that she had not been advised to take 
any action. 
Equiniti called back on 5 November 2019 to discuss the complaint. They said that as it was 
an execution only account it was her responsibility to monitor her account and any secure 
messages that were sent. Miss M felt that Equiniti should have made her aware of this and 
asked for a final response to be sent on her complaint. 
Miss M called Equiniti on 15 November 2019 to sell her shares and requested historical 
statements. There was a discussion about costs in sending documents by post and Miss M 
asked about the process to transfer her sale proceeds to her bank. The representative noted 
that they held old bank account details for Miss M and verified her new bank details over the 
phone. 
Miss M called Equiniti on 20 November 2019 to ask about the payment of the sale proceeds. 
Equiniti asked Miss M to provide evidence of her bank account and the representative later 
confirmed in a voice message that they would arrange for the proceeds to be sent to her 
bank account and her account closed.
Miss M called Equiniti on 25 November to confirm if her account was closed. This had not 
been done by Equiniti and the account was closed on the 5 December.
Miss Ms complaint relates to the fact that she did not receive any postal communication 
advising her of the corporate action and when she contacted Equiniti in April 2019, they did 
not inform her that there was a corporate action in June. Equiniti investigated her complaint 
but said that they did not do anything wrong. They said that it was their normal practice to 
send communication by secure messages. They said that following the call with Miss M in 
April, she was provided with a PIN to review the terms and conditions for the service and 
was informed that she needed to accept these terms before she could trade. Equiniti said 
that they had acted in accordance with their normal practice and did not uphold her 
complaint.
Unhappy with Equinitis decision, Miss M referred her complaint to this service and one of 
our investigators looked at her complaint. The investigator didnt think that Equiniti had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Miss M has asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I dont think that Equiniti have done anything wrong and 
Im not going to uphold her complaint.
Miss M had an execution only account with Equiniti. This means that the investment 
decisions are down to the consumer and no advice is provided. The dealing account that 
Miss M had was transferred from another provider to Equiniti in 2015. Although 
correspondence would have been sent to Miss M at the time, she did not consent to the 
transfer of her account. In situations like this, all accounts are migrated to the new provider 
(in this case Equiniti) and remain locked until the consumer accepts the new terms and 
conditions. 
I have reviewed the documentation that was sent to Miss M about the transfer to Equiniti. 
This gave details on what consumers should do and how the service would operate going forward. The terms and conditions of the new service were sent to Miss M and this included 
details on how Equiniti would operate.
I acknowledge that Miss M may not have received the documentation from Equiniti in 2015 
which told her about changes to the service, but Miss M was told about these changes when 
she called in January 2018. Miss M was provided with a PIN on several occasions in order to 
access her account and accept the terms and conditions. I note that Miss M did not access 
her account until November 2019.
The terms and conditions say the following about how Equiniti will communicate and how 
clients should run their accounts:
You accept full responsibility for the monitoring of each of your accounts, including any 
instructions you have in place
Except as otherwise expressly provided in these Terms and Conditions, any communication 
in writing may be given by post, SMS, Secure Electronic Message or email to the address, 
number or email address last notified by you or by us to you. EQi does not consider post, fax 
or email to be secure methods of communication and orders and instructions concerning an 
Account will be accepted only by telephone or Secure Electronic Message or if given online 
on the Website using a device
If we send communications to you by Secure Electronic Message they will be treated as 
received by you upon our sending such communication to the secure mailbox within the 
website
These terms are clear and reasonable. I think that that if Miss M had accessed her account 
to view the terms and conditions when first prompted in January 2018, she would have 
known how Equiniti operated and could have accessed her secure messages.
Equiniti have provided copies of the secure messages that were sent to Miss Ms account 
about the tender offer. This tender offer relates to the special dividend that Miss M was 
referring to in her calls to Equiniti. I have read the information about the tender offer and can 
see that it required action by the consumer if they would like to tender their shares, e.g. take 
part in the tender offer.
In her submission to this service, Miss M has said that she didnt think it made sense and 
had she read it when it was sent, she didnt think she would have acted on it. Although I 
sympathise with Miss M that the content is somewhat technical, it does give information on 
what to do if clients are in any doubt. It reads:
Please note that the above information only provides summary details of this Corporate 
Action. It is your responsibility to ensure that you are familiar with all the terms of the 
prospectus produced by the Issuer Company which can be accessed or downloaded at https 
//www.xxxxxx.co.uk/investors/return-of-capital. If you are in any doubt as to what course of 
action to take you should consult a professional adviser.
As Miss M had an execution only dealing account, Equiniti did not provide any advice on 
what to do and it was up to Miss M to seek guidance from Company A or a financial adviser.
Miss M has said that she didnt see any of the alerts on the secure message facility because 
she didnt check the facility and she knew everything that she needed to know about her 
shares.
Taking everything into account and based on the documentation that I have seen, I dont 
think that Equiniti have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything else.I think that it was fair and reasonable for Equiniti to expect Miss M to monitor the secure 
message facility for any updates on the account. They provided Miss M with several PINs so 
that she could access the account and all the information about the tender offer was on the 
secure message facility. Had Miss M accessed the account prior to the tender offers she 
would have been in position to participate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman