DRN-2909904
The complaint
Miss C says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan for £3,000 that Bamboo provided to 
Miss C on 31 May 2019. The monthly repayments were £170.18 and the total repayable was 
£6,126.34. 
Miss C says Bamboo didnt complete proper checks, she was in a debt spiral and had to 
borrow to repay this loan. She says she complained to Bamboo on 6 October 2020, but it 
didnt respond.
Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint and thought Bamboo was wrong to have given 
the loan. Bamboo disagreed, it reiterated the checks it carried out and why the results 
supported its lending decision. It said that Miss Cs use of credit wasnt steadily increasing, 
and it wasnt overly concerned that her default balance wasnt decreasing as they were small 
amounts with telecoms companies and most likely in dispute, not unaffordable. So they were 
not a fair reason not to lend. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice this meant 
that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss C 
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo  to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information 
from Miss C. It asked for details of her monthly income and her housing costs. It used 
national statistics to estimate her living costs and used an independent income verification 
tool to check her declared income. It carried out a credit check to understand her credit 
history and her existing credit commitments. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the 
loan. Based on these checks Bamboo concluded Miss C would have around £500 
disposable income each month after taking on this loan and so thought it was fair to lend.
I am not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate given Bamboo needed to be 
sure Miss C could sustainably repay the loan over a 36-month term. I think given the results 
from the credit check it carried out it ought to have completed a fuller financial review. But I 
wont comment further on this as even based on the information it gathered I think Bamboo 
ought to have realised there was a risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for 
Miss C. Ill explain why.
Bamboo says its checks showed Miss C would have around £500 disposable income each 
month after repaying all her credit commitments. But by giving this loan it was increasing the 
amount of her income she would need to spend on servicing her debt to nearly 40%.  At this 
level I think it ought to have been concerned she would likely struggle to sustainably repay 
the loan over three years. It could see from her credit check that even before increasing her 
indebtedness she had made the minimum repayment on her credit card debt 12 times in the 
prior 12 months; she had recently increased her overdraft four-fold and had used half of the 
new limit in the first month and shed fallen delinquent on one of her accounts the previous 
12 months. So I think they were already early indicators of some financial strain and in this 
context I dont it was fair to extend Miss Cs credit commitments such that they were almost 
40% of her income. It seems Bamboo focused heavily on the pounds and pence affordability of the loan, but to meet its regulatory obligations it was also required to check that Miss C 
would be able to repay the loan without suffering adverse financial consequences, or 
borrowing to repay. I am not satisfied it did this.
Bamboo argues that Miss C paid her loan reasonably well, only struggling a little recently 
due to COVID. But as it does not know how she funded her loan repayments this point does 
not change my conclusion.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Miss C.
I have not seen any evidence that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonable towards Miss C in 
some other way. She said it did not respond to her complaint of 6 October 2020. It has 
evidenced that it emailed her a final response letter to the email address it held, and that she 
has used to correspond with us, on 25 November 2020 so within the time limit for a final 
response as set out by the regulator. The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution 
Rule DISP 1.6.2 stipulates that a final response to a complaint needs to be sent by the end 
of eight weeks after its receipt. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to her. Bamboo must put this right.
It should:
Refund all interest and charges, so add up the total amount Miss C repaid and 
deduct this sum form the capital amount of the loan.
If reworking Miss Cs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Cs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss C.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint. Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman