DRN-3697505
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc did not refund him for cancelled flights which he paid 
for using his credit card.
What happened
Mr P bought return flights for a family member using his Santander credit card. However, the 
return flights were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr P contacted Santander to get a refund. However, after considering the matter under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) it would not refund him. In 
summary, it said that the technical requirements for a valid Section 75 claim were not in 
place. It also added that he was outside the timeframe for a valid chargeback claim.
Mr P was not happy with the outcome of his Section 75 claim or the way Santander handled 
it and said it delayed things  Santander paid him £25 in recognition of an issue he had 
emailing over details of his claim.
Mr P asked this service to look at the complaint. Our investigator said in summary:
Santander acted reasonably in not raising a chargeback as Mr P had run out of time 
to raise a claim;
She agreed with Santander that there was no valid Section 75 claim here due to the 
lack of a correct debtor-creditor-supplier agreement; and 
She thought Santanders compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr P sent in further information and requested that the matter be looked at again. He said 
that he felt he should get a refund in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case concerns flight tickets that were unfortunately cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. I have every sympathy for what happened here. However, it is important I 
emphasise why Santander is involved. It is not the supplier of travel services so any potential 
liability it has for the actions of the supplier of travel services is limited to the specific card 
protections which are available. In this case these are chargeback and Section 75. I will 
consider each of these in turn.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which Santander might have been able to recover the 
funds for Mr P. However, Santander is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply here 
as laid down by the provider of said scheme. I have considered the scheme rules and 
relevant supplementary guidance published in light of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to 
decide if Santander has treated Mr P fairly.
Santander appear not to have raised a chargeback for Mr P. However, in the circumstances 
I dont consider this to be unreasonable. I say this because when Mr P first raised the issue 
with Santander he was already well outside the time limits for raising a chargeback claim 
under the relevant reason code relating to services being cancelled/not provided. So any 
chargeback attempt would not have succeeded in any event.
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mr P to hold Santander responsible (have a like claim against it) for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of goods 
or services. There are certain criteria that need to be met for Section 75 to apply, relating to
the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was made and the price of the goods or
services. 
One of the criteria necessary for a valid claim is the correct debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement between the parties. In this case Santander has said this isnt in place  because 
although Mr P paid for the flights  they were not for him but a family member.
The crucial thing here is whether Mr P has a contractual agreement with the supplier which 
received the credit card payment. The supplier here for the purposes of Section 75 is the 
travel agent which received payment for the service.
From what I understand  Mr P did not book the flights himself  was not going on the trip 
and simply provided a means of financing these for an adult family member (who is solely 
named on the booking documentation). This satisfies me that Mr P was not contracting with 
the supplier of the travel services  and therefore would not have a claim against it in court 
for anything that went wrong. Because of this he doesnt have a like claim against 
Santander via Section 75 for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
So I agree with Santander that there isnt the correct debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for 
a valid Section 75 claim against it in respect of this transaction. So in this case I dont think it 
is fairly liable for refunding him for the cancelled tickets.
Customer service
Mr Ps primary point concerns the outcome of his Section 75 claim. But for completeness I 
will briefly cover off the issue with customer service.
It appears there were some delays to Santander handling Mr Ps Section 75 claim as it didnt 
receive the email he was trying to send with all the relevant information. From the evidence I 
have it appears Mr P was spelling the relevant email address incorrectly. I am not persuaded 
this initial error was Santanders fault although I can see Mr P was apparently given 
misleading information by it later on about the likely cause of the problem (failing to use 
capital letters even though the email addresses is not case sensitive). In the circumstances, I 
dont think Santander needs to pay Mr P any more than the modest compensation payment 
it has already made. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr P  but as I have already indicated  even though I sympathise 
with him being out of pocket due to the circumstances around the pandemic  this does not 
mean it is necessarily fair for Santander to pay him a refund considering the particular 
limitations around the chargeback scheme and Section 75. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman