The complaint
Mr T made a complaint to Santander UK Plc about the suitability of his mortgage endowment 
policy. Whilst the complaint was upheld, he isnt happy with the amount hes been offered 
and doesnt think it is sufficient to compensate him for his time, trouble, inconvenience and 
the pressure hes been put under.
Santander is now responsible for the sale of the policy and I will refer to it throughout, even 
where activities were undertaken by its predecessors.
What happened
In 1997 Mr T was sold an endowment policy to protect and repay his mortgage with 
Santander. The property the policy was associated with was sold in 2004 and the policy 
stopped being used for mortgage purposes.
Santander upheld the complaint as it didnt think the policy was suitable for Mr T. Following 
the regulators guidance on how to calculate redress in such cases, Santander established 
that Mr T had suffered a loss of £5,157.62. This sum was offered to Mr T, but he didnt 
accept it as he wanted to be compensated for the grievances and pressure hes gone 
through . Mr T also said that some information he sent to Santander had been lost, and so 
he had incurred the cost and inconvenience of hand-delivering the documents to 
Santanders offices in Milton Keynes. 
Santander accepted Mr Ts account of hand-delivering documentation without asking for any 
evidence of the events. He also said he had needed to do a lot of chasing to get his 
complaint dealt with. Santander offered him a total of £150 for any costs or inconvenience he 
had suffered. Mr T didnt accept the offer. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. When doing so he confirmed to us that he wanted 
compensation of £8,000 for his non-financial losses on top of the £5,157.62 offered for 
financial loss.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr T 
didnt accept the investigators view. He said that hed been through a very hard time over 
the 22 years since the policy sale and Santander hadnt told him something had been wrong 
with the advice it had given. He said hed had to sell his house (to a property rental 
company) because he couldnt afford the mortgage, although he managed to buy it back at a 
later date. He suffered stress, strain and family issues because of these circumstances. As 
such, he thinks that Santander should pay him more than the £150 he has been offered.
Our investigator considered Mr Ts additional comments about his circumstances following 
the sale of the policy. However, he didnt think Santander should compensate Mr T for the 
DRN-1421786consequences of not being able to afford the mortgage in the mid-2000s. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
 What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr T doesnt appear to be complaining about the redress that has been offered to him 
to compensate for financial loss, I will comment on it for completeness. I have reviewed how 
Santander calculated the loss and I am satisfied it is in line with the regulators guidance for 
such situations. As such, if Mr T hasnt already accepted the redress, I would suggest he 
might want to contact Santander to do so.
I now turn to Mr Ts request for a significant sum in compensation for stress and 
inconvenience caused to him because he was mis-sold the endowment policy. Mr T 
confirmed to our investigator when he first raised his complaint that hed sold his home in 
2004. Hes explained that this situation and the subsequent issues caused him a lot of 
stress, strain and personal problems. I accept that having financial difficulties such that a 
family home has to be sold would be very stressful and may well lead to personal difficulties.
However, it appears that the events were at some distance in time from the sale of the 
policy. So I am not persuaded that the issues Mr T is asking to be compensated for can be 
directly linked to the sale of the policy. Indeed, Santander would have completed checks in 
1997 to ensure that the cost of the mortgage (including the endowment policy) wouldnt 
place Mr T in financial difficulties. 
Santander has offered £150 for the inconvenience Mr T reported he suffered because of 
service issues following his complaint being made. Given the nature of that report, I consider 
the amount Santander offered was appropriate in the circumstances and I dont require it to 
increase its offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. If Mr T wishes to accept the offers 
Santander UK Plc has made to him in relation to the mis-selling redress and the 
inconvenience payment, he should approach it direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman