DRN-1957488
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim he made under 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T was unfortunately involved in a multi car incident. His car was damaged to the front and 
rear as he was shunted between two cars. Mr T reported the incident to his insurer, Aviva.
Mr T was very unhappy with the way his claim was handled. He complained that the agent 
refused to offer him a courtesy car, and said his car wasnt economical to repair. Mr T said 
he wasnt given any other option but to accept a total loss settlement. Mr T said the valuation 
Aviva reached for his car was too low. He said the agent refused to contact the third party 
insurer (TPI) of the car that had hit him in the rear to claim for Mr Ts damage and loss. Mr T 
obtained the TPI details himself through the Motor Insurance Database and when he 
contacted them, they offered to repair his car. But by then, Aviva had already collected his 
car and decided to write it off.
Mr T said his wife was injured in the incident and Aviva showed no empathy. 
Aviva upheld most of Mr Ts complaints. It accepted that there were a series of failings in the 
handling of his claim. Aviva said its possible the TPI may have carried out repairs to the rear 
of Mr Ts car  and allowed him the option to repair the minor damage to the front himself in 
order to retain his car. And it said it should have given Mr T the option to retain the salvage 
of his car. Aviva said the agent should have referred Mr Ts concerns about the total loss 
settlement and decision to write the car off to an in house engineer, but didnt. 
Aviva apologised for failing to ask if Mr T or his passengers were injured. It said this certainly 
should have happened when Mr T called to report the incident.
However, on reviewing Mr Ts complaint, Avivas engineer said the decision to write off Mr 
Ts car and the total loss settlement it paid was correct.
To compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience it caused by its poor service, Aviva 
offered him £350. And it offered £500 compensation for failing to give Mr T the option to 
retain his car, so £850 in total.
Mr T didnt accept Avivas offer and brought his complaint to us. He didnt think the 
compensation amount Aviva paid reflected the financial loss he says he incurred due to 
Avivas poor advice. Mr T says because they were only allowed a courtesy car for a week  
and Aviva refused to contact the TPI on his behalf to consider covering this  he felt rushed 
into buying a replacement car as they needed a car to travel to work. If Aviva had allowed 
him the option to retain his car and repair it  this could have been done by the TPI and he 
wouldnt have been put to the costs of a replacement car immediately. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had done enough to put things right. 
Mr T didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Avivas handling of Mr Ts claim was very poor. I understand Mr T is 
disappointed that the investigator formed a view without listening to all of the key call 
between him and Aviva. Aviva hasnt been able to provide all of the call recording, but it has 
provided the first half hour. However, both parties agree about the incorrect information Mr T 
was given and Avivas failings. So Im satisfied that even without this evidence, I can fairly 
consider Mr Ts complaint.
Its clear that Aviva should have given Mr T the option to retain his car as he didnt want it 
written off and he asked for alternative options to doing so. Mr T went to the trouble of 
finding out who the TPI was and contacted them himself to make a claim. They said they 
would look to repair Mr Ts car. But by then Aviva had arranged collection and made its 
decision. So I think Aviva caused Mr T unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Its possible 
that Mr T could have had his car repaired by the TPI, but I cant say that for certain. Its 
engineer may have decided it wasnt economical to repair  as Avivas engineer decided.
But I think that Aviva should have done more to contact the TPI from the outset to assist Mr 
T and it failed to do this. 
So Ive looked at the valuation Aviva paid for Mr Ts car. We dont decide a valuation, but we 
look at whether an insurer reached its decision fairly and in line with the policy. Mr Ts policy 
says the most Aviva will pay is the market value of his car at the time of loss. 
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We think a fair way for an 
insurer to decide a valuation is to look at the main motor trade guides. They provide 
valuations based on likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, mileage, age 
and condition as Mr Ts for the month of loss. We find them more reliable than advertised 
prices as they can vary widely and tend to have a margin built in to negotiate the price 
downwards. We look at the retail transacted guides as they are the average price that Mr T 
 or anyone  might expect to pay for a similar car from a retail garage. 
In this case, the average of the valuation guides was lower than the settlement Aviva paid Mr 
T for his car. So Im satisfied that Aviva reached its valuation reasonably. And as Aviva paid 
Mr T a fair valuation for his car as a total loss, I think this goes some way to putting things 
right. 
I understand that this doesnt change the fact that Mr T needed to buy a replacement car  
as Aviva failed to offer the option for Mr T to retain the salvage instead. So Ive considered 
whether the £500 compensation Aviva has offered for its failings here is reasonable and I 
think it is. The amount Mr T decided to spend when choosing a replacement car isnt 
something I can take into account as a financial loss. I understand Mr T felt under pressure 
to buy a replacement car in haste. But I think Aviva paid a fair total loss settlement for Mr Ts 
car which he was free to spend as little or as much as he wanted on a replacement. But for 
the overall inconvenience caused by Avivas failing here, I think £500 is fair and in line with 
awards we would give in similar circumstances. 
Mr T was provided with a courtesy car for the duration of time set out under the policy  as 
his car wasnt repaired, although this was only because he challenged the information Aviva 
gave him which wasnt correct. Aviva accepts that its handling of Mr Ts claim was well below standard and there were several failings highlighted in the key call between Mr T and 
Aviva. 
Ive no doubt that the lack of empathy and incorrect information Mr T received only added to 
the existing stress and upset of being involved in an accident. But I think the compensation 
Aviva offered of £350 is enough to put things right for the poor service it provided. 
I understand Mr T will be very disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think Aviva has done enough to resolve his complaint. So Im not asking it to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I think the 
compensation Aviva Insurance Limited has offered Mr T of £850 is fair and reasonable and 
so this is the amount I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman