DRN-2964324
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr A has said that he lost his debit card and was unaware that a large payment, in excess of 
£25,000 had been paid into his account. He says he only found out about the payment once 
his account was closed.
Nationwide have said that Mr As account received a large payment which was later 
confirmed as fraud by the sending bank. Account details and online banking records show 
that the bulk of the funds were transferred or spent within a few days of receiving them.
Nationwide believed that Mr A was responsible for making the transactions and knew about 
the incoming fraudulent payment. Once Nationwide received confirmation that the funds 
were a result of fraudulent activity, they returned the remainder back to the senders 
account. Nationwide took the decision to close Mr As account and register a marker against 
him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
Mr A complained to Nationwide and denied he was involved in the transaction or the 
subsequent spending. He told Nationwide that the CIFAs marker was causing him difficulties 
trying to open another bank account and asked them to remove it. He admitted hed been 
negligent but wasnt involved in any fraud.
Nationwide declined to change their position and Mr A brought his complaint to our service 
for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who sought 
additional evidence from Mr A and Nationwide. Mr A explained that hed lost his wallet with 
his Nationwide card around the time of the payment and wasnt responsible for the 
transactions. He also said his online banking details were in his wallet but couldnt be sure if 
his personal identification number (PIN) was also in it. He confirmed he still had his phone 
and the PIN was recorded on the notes section of the phone. He said he didnt use the 
account much, which was why he didnt notice the card was missing.
Mr A also said he didnt check his online account and only realised there was a problem 
when he realised he was locked out of it. He continued to deny any knowledge of the 
fraudulent payment or the subsequent payments made from his account.
Nationwide provided further information about the incoming payment, that the payment had 
been confirmed as fraudulent by the sending bank. Nationwide also supplied an audit of Mr 
As online banking usage.
Our investigator thought Mr A was responsible for making the payments from his account 
and knew about the incoming payments. He thought it was reasonable for Nationwide to 
register a marker against him with CIFAS.
Mr A continued to disagree and asked for a further review of his complaint which has now 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Nationwide needed to have reasonable grounds to believe 
that Mr A misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which had 
appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think there are sufficient grounds to keep this marker in 
place. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr A contends he didnt know anything about the incoming 
fraudulent payment and wasnt responsible for making any payments from his account 
related to this transfer. So, Ive gone on to consider Mr As version of the events.
Mr A said he didnt access his online banking because the account only received small 
payments and wasnt used much. Ive examined the online banking audit provided by 
Nationwide which shows that Mr As account was regularly accessed on the days leading up 
to the incoming fraudulent payment. These logins used Mr As mobile phone through the 
use of Touch ID  which means his mobile phone used biometric security to open 
Nationwides banking app, together with additional security information.
The audit shows Mr As phone was being used to check the statements and make online 
transfers. On the day of the incoming fraudulent payment his account was accessed over a 
dozen times throughout the day and several outgoing transfers were made. This was 
repeated the following day and by this time the bulk of the fraudulent payment had been 
transferred or moved from the account. Access to the online account was blocked later that 
day by Nationwide. Mr As phone was never reported lost or stolen and the biometric 
protection he used to access the banking app means its unlikely anyone other than Mr A 
was using the phone around the time of the incoming fraudulent payment and the 
corresponding transfers out of the account. The repeated use of the account to check the 
balance and make payments would seem to indicate that Mr A was waiting for the payment 
to arrive, before transferring it out again to various accounts. 
There were other payments made from the account, including a branch visit using Mr As 
debit card and Nationwides records show a withdrawal for £2,000 was made the morning 
after receiving the incoming fraudulent payment. Later that same morning, Nationwides 
records show Mr A visited a different branch  recorded as a face to face visit. Theres no 
further detail of the visit but Nationwide were satisfied the person visiting them was Mr A. 
Its possible the withdrawal was done by someone else using Mr As card, but I dont think 
its the likely explanation. If an imposter had taken Mr As wallet and used his card and other 
details to arrange the takeover of his account, Im not sure why they would risk going into a 
branch. There would be a risk of discovery and a likelihood that evidence of their visit would 
be captured for use by the authorities. I think they would be more likely to minimise their 
exposure and just transfer funds electronically or use the card to make purchases, rather 
than personally visiting two different branches. 
So, when taking everything into account, I think Mr A likely knew about the incoming 
payments because of the extensive use of his mobile banking and the online transfers used 
to send large payments to other accounts. I think he remained in possession of his card and 
used them to withdraw funds from his account  and Nationwides records show that it was Mr A who made the visit(s) after receiving the fraudulent payment.
Because Ive made a finding that I think Mr A more than likely knew about the incoming 
payment and was responsible for transferring the funds or withdrawing them from his 
account, it follows that he was aware that this was an unusual situation. I dont know if Mr A 
knew the specific details of where the money came from or the background to the theft, but I 
find it likely he was aware the funds werent from a legitimate source. The pattern of 
transactions closely follows what wed expect to see from this type of activity and by that I 
mean the receipt of a payment into an account and then numerous payments and transfers 
to move on the funds. Theres often a payment made to the account holder  and 
Nationwides records show £2,000 cash being withdrawn by Mr A.
So, I think Nationwide had more than just suspicions that Mr A was involved with this fraud, 
rather than his account being taken over without his knowledge. Once Nationwide received 
confirmation from the sending bank that their account holder had confirmed the payment 
was fraudulent, I think Nationwide then had reasonable grounds to believe the funds were 
related to fraud or financial crime.
But thats not enough to register a marker, the evidence Nationwide relied on also had to be 
more than mere suspicion. Nationwide received confirmation that the funds were fraudulent 
and then gave Mr A an opportunity to explain what happened. They then compared all this 
information to draw their conclusions. As a result of their own investigation, they didnt 
believe Mr As version of events. As Ive already explained, Mr As version of events isnt 
supported by the evidence of how his account was used. He denied any knowledge of the 
funds and their subsequent removal  but his use of the online banking indicates that he was 
aware of the payment and then took an active part in sending it to other accounts, as well as 
removing funds in cash. Because of this, Im satisfied that Nationwide had more than 
suspicion and could have reported this to the Police if they wished.
Taking everything into account I think Nationwide met the standards for lodging a marker 
with CIFAS  related to how Mr A used his account and I wont be asking them to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman