DRN-2303922
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined a claim for a burglary under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
When Mr M returned from a holiday, he found he had been burgled. So, Mr M phoned esure 
to make a claim. Esure initially turned down the claim but then accepted it and appointed a 
loss adjuster to assess the claim. Esure then declined the claim as it said there were no 
signs of force and violence to gain entry. When Mr M complained to esure, it maintained its 
decision to turn down the claim.
So Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
she thought it was reasonable for esure to turn down the claim for the reasons it did and that 
this was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms claim was turned down because of an exclusion in the Theft or attempted theft part 
of the policy that said:
We will not pay for loss or damage to Your Contents:

caused while You and Your Household are away from the Home unless violence and force is 
used to enter or leave Your Buildings
I dont think this is an unusual exclusion in a policy and so Ive considered whether I think it 
was reasonable for esure to turn down the claim on that basis.
Mr M has said that force and violence was used to enter his home. He said when he went to 
bed on the night he discovered the burglary that he found it wasnt possible to secure the 
front door because the lock was damaged, so he had to wedge it shut.
Esure said that Mr M didnt tell it about the damage to the front door on the day that he 
phoned to make a claim about the burglary. Ive listened to that phone call. The call we were 
provided with was divided into three segments. The first segment was the conversation with 
the claim handler, the second segment was with a manager and the third segment was with 
the original claim handler when the manager transferred the call back. 
In the first part of the call, Mr M told the claim handler that there was no damage to his 
home. The claim was then turned down on the basis of there being no evidence of force and 
violence. Mr M was then transferred to a manager, at his own request, to discuss the claim 
further. During the call with the manager, and when he was then transferred back to the 
original claim handler, Mr M said that there was damage to one of the locks and that he had 
misunderstood what was meant by damage. So, I think it was inaccurate for esure to say 
that Mr M didnt inform it of the damage on the day that he made the claim.
Ive thought about whether this made any difference to the way the claim was handled. 
Looking at what esure considered during the claim, I dont think that it did make a difference. 
Esure sent a loss adjuster to assess the claim. As part of that, he checked whether there 
was any indication of how the burglars got into the house. This didnt find any evidence of 
force and violence to gain entry. However, Im aware that by this point, Mr M had already 
had the locks changed.
Esure also looked at information provided by the police. The police forensic report said there 
was no sign of forced entry. A few days after the burglary Mr M also signed a police 
statement that said he didnt know how the burglars got in. Mr M later explained that shortly 
before he signed the statement he had told the police there was a problem with the lock, but 
that he hadnt made changes to the statement as he didnt know he should. 
Esure also spoke to the locksmith who said that he didnt see any evidence of damage. Im 
aware Mr M was concerned that esure took some time to contact the locksmith and that he 
might not have remembered what had happened by that time. So, our investigator also 
spoke to the locksmith. It was clear from that conversation that the locksmith did recall the 
incident. However, he didnt recall any damage, including to the cylinders, which was what 
was replaced.
So, thinking about the above, in my view it was reasonable for esure to decide that there 
wasnt evidence of force and violence being used to enter the property. This isnt to ignore 
that Mr M told esure there was damage to the lock or his explanation for why the police 
statement was inaccurate. However, neither the police or the locksmith found damage to the 
lock and I think that it was reasonable for esure to put weight on this when it considered the 
claim. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require esure to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman