DRN-2846069
The complaint
Mr A complains about the valuation of his car by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
following an accident.
What happened
Mr A had motor insurance policy with Admiral. Unfortunately, he was involved in an accident 
in which his car was damaged, so he raised a claim. After arranging for the car to be 
inspected by an engineer, Admiral deemed the car to be a total loss.
Admiral initially calculated the market value of his car to be £8,000. After deducting his policy 
excess of £550 and the salvage value of £2,640 it offered a payment of £4,810 in settlement 
of the claim. Admiral deducted the salvage value because Mr A wanted the damaged car 
back. Under normal circumstances, where a car is deemed to be a total loss the insurer 
retains the damaged salvage (the car in its damaged state) and will sell this to a salvage 
company.  Where a consumer asks to keep the damaged car, insurers will usually deduct 
the money they would have earned from the salvage when calculating the settlement. 
Mr A didnt think this was a fair valuation of the car and so he raised his concerns with 
Admiral. Admiral reviewed things and a few days later it increased its valuation of his car to 
£8,350.
Mr A remained unhappy with the valuation figure and raised this with Admiral. Admiral 
treated Mr As concerns as a complaint. After looking into things, it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It advised that valuing second hand cars wasnt an exact science. It said it had 
acted reasonably in consulting two of the motor-trade valuation guide tools which are 
recognised by the wider industry and regulatory bodies. It noted it had valued Mr As car in 
line with the higher of the two figures it obtained.
Mr A provided Admiral with some examples of sales adverts for similar vehicles at a higher 
cost and details of the optional extras his car had. Mr A also asked Admiral to explain how 
the salvage price was calculated as he felt the figure was high. 
In light of the optional extras Mr A identified, Admiral contacted one of the motor-trade 
guides for a bespoke valuation. As a result, Admiral upheld Mr As complaint, upping its 
valuation of Mr As car to £10,200. This also upped the salvage value of the car to £3,672, 
making the settlement figure £5,978. Admiral then paid Mr A 8% simple interest on the 
difference between the two figures and offered him £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by providing him with a lower value initially. Admiral explained 
salvage values are based on pre-agreed rates with its contractual salvage firms. The rate is 
based on the vehicles value and the category of loss  it explained these are non-
negotiable.
Mr A remained unhappy with the valuation and he brought his complaint to our service. 
Mr A said his car was extremely rare. He felt a fairer valuation for the car was approximately 
£13,000. Mr A highlighted that there were similar cars listed for sale at prices such as 
£11,800 and £14,000. Mr A acknowledged there were differences in mileage but felt this still 
showed Admirals valuation was unfair. Mr A also provided a valuation of his car at £12,920 
from another independent online valuation tool. He felt this evidence was ignored by 
Admiral. 
Mr A also wanted to understand how Admiral calculated the salvage value of his car so that 
he could make an informed choice about whether to keep it and carry out the necessary 
repair works himself. He asked our service to check the salvage offer was fair.
Our investigator looked into things, independently checking three of the main motor-trade 
valuation tools and requesting a bespoke valuation from a different motor-trade guide than 
the one Admiral used. Only one valuation was higher than Admirals, at £10,446. Based on 
this information, our investigator was of the view Admirals valuation was fair. They also 
confirmed Admirals salvage offer was in line with its agreements with the relevant salvage 
firm/s. So, they didnt think Admiral needed to do anything further. Mr A didnt agree with 
their assessment and so his complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id also like to clarify that I wont be addressing each and every comment made by Mr A and 
Admiral. I mean no discourtesy by this and Id like to reassure both parties that Ive 
considered all the comments as part of this complaint. But Ill only address what I see to be 
relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. These state that the most Admiral 
will pay is the market value of the car which it defines as The cost of replacing your car, with 
one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the 
time of the loss
As Admiral has pointed out, motor valuation isnt an exact science. When I consider this type 
of case I look at the motor-trade guides and other supporting evidence to see whether I think 
the insurers valuation was reasonable.
Having independently checked three of the main motor-trade guides and requested a further 
bespoke valuation from one of them, our investigator only found one higher valuation for 
Mr As car. The price we use from these guides is a retail figure (how much the car would 
usually sell to a customer for), rather than a trade price (the price a dealer would pay before 
adding mark-up). And this more fairly reflects the price an average customer would likely 
pay. So, Im satisfied these valuations are in line with the policy definition of market value. 
Given only one of the valuations was higher and by a comparatively small amount of £246, 
I think the motor-trade guides suggest Admirals valuation was reasonable.
I can see that when Admiral first valued the car it used the engineers valuation of £8000. 
It then used the motor valuation tools available to it to reach the slightly higher price of 
£8,350. Admiral considered two different guides and used the higher of the two figures which 
I think was a reasonable approach. When Mr A later made it aware of the optional extras on 
the vehicle, it then requested a bespoke valuation from one of the guides. In light of the 
higher figure it then received, it increased the settlement again and it also paid interest and 
compensation which I think was fair. Whilst Admirals valuation increased substantially from 
its initial offer, Im satisfied this was due to new information.
Im aware Mr A has concerns about the reliability of the valuation given the rarity of his car. 
I agree with Mr A that for rarer vehicles there is less available data which the guides can use to reach a valuation. But I dont think that this means the guides are so unreliable here that it 
would be unreasonable for Admiral to use them. I say this noting that Admiral requested a 
bespoke valuation which Im satisfied would have considered the additional factors Mr A 
highlighted as evidence of the increased value of his car above the market average. 
Im aware Mr A has raised concerns with our service about whether the exact specification of 
his car was taken into account as part of this valuation, given he didnt provide Admiral with 
the comprehensive list he later gave our service. My role here is to look at whether Admiral 
acted reasonably. And Admiral cant take into account information it wasnt given. So, Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably in highlighting the key additional extras it was advised of. 
Ive considered the evidence Mr A sent us which he feels suggests Admirals settlement offer 
is too low. 
Firstly, looking at the online valuation, I can see it was based on a lower mileage than Mr As 
car. But more importantly, as our investigator explained, it isnt clear how the valuation was 
reached. Our investigator explained to Mr A that he couldnt find any information about what 
data the tool relies on and so its impossible to know how reliable this value is. For this 
reason, I havent attached much weight to this evidence as I find the industry approved 
guides far more persuasive here.
Having also examined the adverts at higher prices, I can see there are some crucial 
differences between these cars and Mr As. For example, these vehicles also had lower 
mileage with the most expensive recording a mileage nearly half that of Mr As car. 
I appreciate Mr A has noted similar key differences with a lower advertised price for a similar 
vehicle our investigator shared with him. Clearly none of these adverts match the exact 
specification of Mr As vehicle nor will this ever be possible. But whats key here is that there 
are some understandable reasons for the differences in these prices. So, Im not persuaded 
that these higher advertised prices mean Mr As car was worth more than Admiral says it 
was. I say this noting that I have seen several other advertised prices for comparable 
vehicles at a lower price. I also note its not uncommon for the advertised price to be higher 
than the seller might expect to receive, to allow room for negotiation. I appreciate Mr A thinks 
its highly unlikely cars will sell for much less than advertised as sellers usually price to sell. 
Whilst this can be the case, there remain exceptions, particularly with private sales. So, I 
think its fair to find advertised prices less persuasive than sold prices. Given the motor-trade 
guides take into account historic sold prices as well as those advertised, I do think theyre 
more reliable. For all of these reasons, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral not to 
change its valuation in light of this evidence.
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Admirals final valuation is fair. 
Im aware Mr A also sought to better understand how Admiral calculated the salvage value 
of his car. Admiral has since explained to Mr A that it cant give him details of these 
calculations as this information is commercially sensitive - it reveals the contractual 
arrangement it has with its salvage firm/s. So Mr A has asked us to confirm the increase 
salvage cost is in line with Admirals agreed contract. And having reviewed the information 
Admiral has sent to us about this, I can confirm it is. Based on this, and given what Ive said 
above about the valuation of Mr As car, Im satisfied that Admiral has also acted fairly in 
relation to the salvage price its offered Mr A. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman