DRN-4130728
The complaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) lent to her irresponsibly 
when it gave her a loan that she says she couldnt afford.
What happened
Ms C took out an unsecured loan for £3,500 with Nationwide in February 2017. Ms C said 
she wanted to consolidate another loan with it. It was repayable over three years. 
 
Ms C says that Nationwide shouldnt have lent to her because she was struggling with other 
debt. She thinks Nationwide was negligent in allowing her to take the loan and asks that 
Nationwide pay back all interest on the loan.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. Ms C disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Ms C made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Ms C didnt agree with the investigators view her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms Cs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Ms Cs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Nationwide should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include 
things like understanding Ms Cs income, the total amount Ms C borrowed, and the length of 
time Ms C had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
In Ms Cs case, Nationwide has provided evidence of the checks it completed, and the 
information Ms C gave during her application. Ms C declared a net monthly income of £955 
a month and that she didnt have any housing costs. She also stated that the loan she 
intended to repay using the new loan from Nationwide was costing her £300 a month.
Nationwide then used a formula using data from the Office of National Statistics to model Ms 
Cs essential expenditure. It assessed that this was around £360 a month plus a further 
Council Tax payment of around £46 a month. Ms C had declared that her existing loan cost 
her £300 a month and Nationwide added £36 to this as when it conducted external credit 
checks it noted the repayment was actually £336 a month. 
Nationwide has stated that even providing a 20% buffer for the accuracy of its assessment, 
Ms C was left with a disposable income of around £410 a month once Ms Cs existing loan 
was repaid (which was her stated intention on the loan application). Nationwide says that the 
£114 loan monthly repayment was therefore affordable for Ms C. 
Based on the amount being borrowed, the information Ms C gave in her application and the 
evidence Nationwide received from its checks I think Nationwide carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before it lent to Ms C. 
Ms C didnt agree. She said that when taking her mortgage payments into account that she 
didnt have enough disposable income each month. Our investigator took into account what 
she said, including taking into account her full mortgage payment (which Ms C didnt declare 
in her application, perhaps because a joint mortgage holder also paid for this). Even taking 
this into account Ms C was left with a disposable income each month of around £115. 
I think its likely the mortgage costs were already taken into consideration by Nationwide in 
its modelling of living expenses using ONS data. And looking at Ms Cs bank statements I 
cant see any evidence of a £310 mortgage payment. I think its possible this was paid from 
another account with, presumably, another source of income (perhaps from the joint account 
holder if there was one). 
Either way, I am satisfied that Nationwide completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
on Ms Cs financial situation before it agreed to her loan. I think Nationwide was entitled to 
rely on the information provided by Ms C at the time and I dont think there was any evidence 
from those reasonable and proportionate checks to suggest that the loan was unaffordable 
for Ms C. 
In conclusion, I do not think Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Ms C 
and so I do not think Ms C lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint. It follows that I do not direct Nationwide to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman