DRN-2231150
The complaint
Mrs A in unhappy about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited as part of her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs A took out a HomeCare policy with British Gas. She called out British Gas to deal with 
an issue with her central heating. However, despite multiple visits by British Gas, it was 
unable to fix the issue. Mrs A then called out a private plumber, who was able to resolve the 
issue.
Mrs A complained to British Gas. British Gas said that it should never have offered cover for 
the property as there was an inherent system design issue. It also said that an engineer had 
missed an appointment. British Gas refunded the premium Mrs A had paid and offered her 
£20 compensation. 
Mrs A remained unhappy with British Gas service and said that it had also broken a 
magnaclean filter and then siliconed it back in place. British Gas offered to refund the cost of 
the damaged filter, but not the cost of installing it.
Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said 
that he thought that refunding the cost of the policy was reasonable in the circumstances, 
but that British Gas should reissue the cheque for the £20 compensation offered as Mrs A 
didnt seem to have received this. He also said that British Gas should pay for the installation 
of the magnaclean filter, not just for the part itself.
As British Gas did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues in this case. The first is how British Gas dealt with the ongoing 
problems with Mrs As central heating system. This required British Gas to visit on multiple 
occasions. Early on in the process, British Gas seemed to decide that it couldnt offer cover 
for Mrs As central heating system, so it downgraded the policy to one that didnt offer that 
type of cover. However, the policy was then upgraded again to cover the central heating 
system. British Gas accepted that it shouldnt have upgraded the policy again.
Im aware that Mrs A thinks that British Gas should have been able to cover her system and 
said that a private plumber was then able to fix her central heating and wasnt sure why 
British Gas was unable to do so. But if British Gas decided it was unable to deal with the 
system  and the large number of visits by British Gas engineers indicates that there was an 
issue with it being able to do so  I think that it was reasonable that it declined to offer cover. 
I also think it acted reasonably in refunding the cost of the policy, not charging for any of the 
work it carried out or replacement parts and offering Mrs A £20 compensation. I think that 
was a reasonable outcome in the circumstances and, apart from the issue of whether the 
compensation was paid, I dont think British Gas needs to do anything further.
The second issue is the magnaclean filter. Mrs A said that this was broken by a British Gas 
engineer and then siliconed back in place. British Gas has strongly argued that this didnt 
happen, on the basis that there was no evidence that it had replaced the magnaclean filter. It 
said that although it was willing to pay for a new filter, as the part would have been covered 
by the policy, it wasnt willing to pay for the cost of installation, as this wouldnt have been.
The issue here is that Mrs A said that British Gas broke the part. If that was the case I would 
expect British Gas to pay for both the new part and its installation, whether or not it was 
covered by the policy. British Gas said there is no record of it installing or replacing the 
magnaclean filter. Mrs A said that the British Gas engineers didnt install a new magnaclean 
filter, but did remove the existing one on multiple occasions while they were trying to find the 
source of the blockage in the central heating system. 
Thinking about this, I find Mrs As explanation of what happened more persuasive. British 
Gas clearly carried out a range of investigations to try and identify the source of the problem 
with her central heating system. It seems likely to me that this would have involved checking 
the magnaclean filter and Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs A said about the engineers doing 
so. I also wouldnt expect British Gas records to list every part that was checked during its 
investigations and its internal notes are also very brief. So, I dont think that its records not 
saying anything about the magnaclean filter is persuasive evidence that it therefore didnt 
remove the filter. So, thinking about this, in my view it is more likely than not that British Gas 
did remove the magnaclean filter, and then put it back in place afterwards, on at least one 
occasion. Given that shortly after the British Gas policy ended, a private plumber found that 
the magnaclean filter was damaged and needed to be replaced, I think that its more likely 
than not it was British Gas that damaged it.
As Ive already said, given that I think British Gas most likely damaged the part, I think its 
irrelevant whether fitting a new magnaclean filter was covered by the policy. In my view, the 
only reason it needed to be replaced was because of the actions of British Gas and it 
therefore needs to cover the cost of both the part itself, which it has already done, and of the 
installation. That is the only way to put Mrs A back in the position that she would have been 
had British Gas not damaged the part.
So, thinking about this case as a whole, I partially uphold this complaint. I think that British 
Gas refunding Mrs A the premium she paid for her policy was a reasonable way of 
addressing the issues with it fixing her central heating system. I think that the premium 
refund combined with the additional £20 compensation adequately dealt with the distress 
and inconvenience caused. However, Mrs A said that she didnt receive the £20 
compensation, so British Gas should cancel the cheque it sent and reissue the 
compensation to Mrs A. 
For the magnaclean filter, British Gas should pay not only the cost of the new part, but also 
for its installation, subject to it receiving suitable evidence of the costs involved. Im aware 
that British Gas has said that it doesnt think it should pay the £27 cost of the pipework listed 
by the private plumber, but the details provided by the plumber said that this work was 
necessary in order to install the new filter, so this cost should also be paid by British Gas, as 
it forms part of the installation cost.
Putting things right
As a result of the above, British Gas should resend Mrs A the £20 compensation and refund 
the cost of the installation of the magnaclean filter.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is partially upheld. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Reissue the £20 compensation cheque to Mrs A
Refund the cost of the installation of the magnaclean filter, subject to receiving suitable 
evidence of the cost
Pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the installation from the date that the invoice was 
paid to the date that the refund payment is made
If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs 
A a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman