DRN-3637753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about a lack of access to medical treatment during the Covid-19 
pandemic and the amount of rebate offered to compensate for this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G held a private medical insurance policy underwritten by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. They previously complained about a lack of access to treatment under their policy 
during 2020. And at that time, AXA PPP said it intended to undertake a review of claim costs 
to determine any rebate which could be offered to policyholders. 
Subsequently in May 2022, AXA PPP offered Mr and Mrs G a rebate of £30.60. Unhappy 
with the amount offered, they complained. AXA PPP said itd used an independent third 
party to calculate the rebate. And said although there were disruptions to private healthcare, 
once services resumed, there was a significant increase in claims, which was above the 
level prior to the pandemic. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. And said they didnt think AXA PPP 
needed to do anything more. 
AXA PPP made no comment on the investigators view. However, Mr and Mrs G disagreed. 
In summary they said there was no guarantee that cover would have been available had 
they needed it. And they referenced other insurers and said they had provided customers 
with rebates of up to 40% of their premiums for the affected period.    
As Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs 
Gs contract with AXA PPP, as well as other relevant considerations, such as the law and 
industry guidance.
Having done so, Im satisfied AXA PPP hasnt acted unfairly. And I say this for the following 
reasons. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel strongly that AXA PPP shouldnt retain the premiums 
they paid whilst private medical treatment was limited. However, insurance policies 
are intended to cover the risk of an event happening over the duration of the contract. 
And an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim is made. AXA PPP provided cover under Mr and 
Mrs Gs policy for the duration of the policy period, and Ive seen no evidence that it 
refused to authorise treatment covered under the policy, so its entitled to retain the 
premium.
AXA PPP has said non-urgent treatment had to be postponed during the pandemic, 
but it was still making provisions for urgently required treatment. Although Mr and 
Mrs G didnt attempt to access treatment, Im persuaded that had they needed urgent 
treatment, AXA PPP would have made arrangements for this. 
AXA PPP also introduced remote access to medical practitioners. And I think this 
was a reasonable way of offering consumers benefits under their policies, whilst 
usual services were restricted. 
Whilst Im aware other medical insurance providers have put different rebate policies 
in place, this doesnt automatically mean AXA PPP has acted unfairly. Its not my role 
to assess the amount of rebate AXA PPP has paid, but rather that it has treated its 
policyholders fairly. And based on the evidence Ive seen of the calculations and the 
use of a third party to undertake this work; Im persuaded it has. 
AXA PPP gave Mr and Mrs G a policy rebate of £30.60. As Ive said above, access 
to non-urgent treatment was restricted due to the pandemic, and Im satisfied this 
was beyond AXA PPPs control. I wouldnt have directed it to offer Mr and Mrs G any 
refund in these particular circumstances. So I think AXA PPPs decision to do so 
shows it was acting fairly and reasonably. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs G, Ive not found that 
AXA PPP has acted unfairly. So I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman