DRN-3820700
The complaint
Miss B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  trading as LV= (LV) 
unfairly avoided her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Miss B bought a property and took out home insurance with LV. Before moving 
in she undertook some renovations to the property and as part of this she discovered smoke 
damage on the removal of one of the ceilings. She notified LV.
LV sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage but subsequently wrote to Miss B to inform 
her it was avoiding her policy. It said she hadnt disclosed all relevant information when she 
took the policy out. It said she hadnt been living in the property at any point up until the 
claim was made in August 2021. And she had been carrying out building renovations that 
she hadnt informed it about. It said if it had known about either of these things then it 
wouldnt have agreed to provide the policy. 
Miss B didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. She said she hadnt given incorrect 
information when she took the policy out as she always intended to occupy the property as 
her sole residence but the minor renovation work took longer than expected to arrange. And 
she informed LV as soon as she came across a problem as she is required to do. 
LV didnt uphold the complaint and maintained its position, so she brought her complaint to 
this service. 
When our investigator looked into the issues, LV changed its position on the matter. It said it 
agreed Miss B hadnt given incorrect information when she took out the policy but she had 
failed to inform it about building work that was taking place and that the property would be 
unoccupied for more than 60 days. It said as this was a breach of the policy conditions, it 
would cancel the policy from this date rather than avoiding it. Our investigator agreed this 
was a fair resolution. 
Miss B didnt agree. She thought LV should pay compensation for the distress it had caused 
by taking such a long time to come to its decision and for the poor service it had offered, 
including sending letters with the wrong address listed for her property. 
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint came to me to decide. On reviewing the 
information, I agreed with our investigators outcome however I thought LV should pay Miss 
B some compensation to make up for the poor service it had provided. I wrote to both sides 
and explained that I agreed LV had acted fairly by saying it would cancel the policy rather 
than avoid it. But I thought it should pay £200 compensation to make up for the delay in 
reaching this outcome and the initial avoidance. I said I intended to require LV to:
Change the status of Miss Bs policy so that it shows as cancelled rather than 
avoided.
Remove any information from CUE and any other external or internal systems that 
shows an avoidance. 
Pay £200 compensation.
LV responded to say it thought the compensation was too high. Miss B responded and said 
she didnt think there should be any marker recorded against her, including one for a 
cancelled policy. She said she had informed LV as soon as she knew there may be an issue 
and LV hadnt made it clear that the consequence would be cancelling her policy. And 
whether the policy is cancelled or avoided she still has to explain that to future insurers, 
which will impact her future policy premiums. 
Ive considered the comments received from both sides when making my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While LV originally said Miss B made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy, 
since the complaint came to us its said that there was no misrepresentation but Miss B had 
an obligation to inform it of the building work that was being carried out before it started. 
As no misrepresentation has been alleged, I dont need to consider whether LV has met its 
obligation under the relevant law. But instead Ive considered if it has acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
The policy documentation contains the following wording:
What are my obligations?
- You must let us know if your circumstances change either before your policy starts or 
during the period of insurance. This includes, if you move house, start a business from 
home, you change the use e.g. you rent it out, you have any building work done, the number 
of bedrooms in your home changes, you increase your contents from what is shown on your 
schedule or if you leave your home unoccupied for more than 60 days in a row
Failure to meet your obligations could result in a claim being rejected, we may reduce the 
amount of payment we make or we may cancel your policy.
Miss B made a claim on 13 August 2021, after discovering soot and smoke damage from a 
partially collapsed chimney after having part of a ceiling removed. At this time, Miss B was 
yet to occupy the property after exchanging at the end of June that year. 
In LVs loss adjuster report, it states that at the time of their visit builders were on site 
undertaking a full re-wiring and re-plumbing exercise. And the tradesmen had removed a 
ceiling which had revealed the damage Miss B subsequently claimed for. From this, it seems 
Miss B has breached a policy condition. As in the extract from the policy above, it states that 
she must inform LV if she has any building work done. 
Miss B has said that the work being carried out wasnt significant. She says it was just 
replastering and painting walls and the reason it took so long to complete was due to being 
unable to find available tradesmen. 
Ive considered all the evidence and I am more persuaded that Miss B was having building 
work carried out at the property. The loss adjuster describes the work in some detail and if this was just painting and plastering I think it would have been evident during that visit. And 
in the absence of any other evidence, I see no reason to doubt the information in the loss 
adjuster report. Further, if the property only required painting and plastering, and Miss B said 
at inception that it was her intention to move in straight away, it seems unlikely that Miss B 
would delay moving in just for minor work to be completed.
The fact that she had been unable to move into the property nearly two months after 
completing, and there were tradesmen on site who removed the ceiling of one of the rooms 
suggests that significant building work was being completed. 
But even if it were minor work, the policy says LV should be informed of any building work. 
And Miss B only made it aware when she found reason to make a claim, and not to let it 
know that she was carrying out building work. 
For these reasons, I think LV has acted fairly by saying Miss B has failed to meet the 
conditions of the policy. The condition quoted above states that if they arent met it could 
result in a claim being rejected, we may reduce the amount of payment we make or we may 
cancel your policy. Here LV has provided evidence from its underwriters to show that it 
wouldnt have accepted the risk if it had known the full details. So I think its acted fairly by 
cancelling Miss Bs policy.
I note Miss Bs request that LV record no mark on her record rather than changing it to a 
cancellation, but I dont agree thats a fair approach here. Insurers have an obligation to 
accurately record action that is taken as part of an insurance contract. And as Im satisfied 
Miss B didnt fulfil the conditions of the policy, I think it fair that LV cancels it and records it as 
such on external and internal records.
While I think LVs offer to cancel the policy is a fair one, I agree it has provided poor service 
while handling Miss Bs claim. It took over two months to confirm to Miss B that it was 
declining her claim and avoiding her policy. And when it did, the letter it sent contained the 
wrong address which would have been confusing. This delay and poor service has caused 
Miss B unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And for this reason I maintain the position 
laid out in my provisional findings that LV should pay Miss B £200 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  trading 
as LV to:
Amend the status of Miss Bs policy so that it shows as cancelled rather than 
avoided.
Remove any information from CUE and any other external or internal systems that 
shows an avoidance. 
Pay £200 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman