DRN-3912896
The complaint
 Mrs A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly asked 
her to pay charges when a car shed acquired under a hire agreement was handed back at 
the end of the term.
 
Mrs A is represented by Mr H, but for ease of reference Ill refer only to Mrs A.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs A entered into a hire agreement with MBFS for the supply of a new car. 
The agreement was 36 months. When Mrs A handed the car back MBFS asked her to pay a 
total of £475.40 for the following damage;
door shut inner left-hand front scratched £105
reflector right hand rear paint flaking £50.40
front bumper scratched £210
front right-hand alloy wheel scratched £110 
Mrs A said the first inspection on 27 April 2022 didnt find any damage to the alloy wheels. 
She didnt think she should be held responsible for the damaged front right-hand alloy 
identified in the second inspection. She said this damage must have taken place after the 
car was collected. Mrs A also disputed the damage to the front bumper, she didnt think the 
scratch was outside of the acceptable levels and she also complained that MBFS charge for 
the repair was unreasonable.
Mrs A was also unhappy that the collection date was rescheduled by the inspection 
company, which meant she had the car for extra days, she didnt want to be charged for this.  
MBFS didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said the damage to the front right-hand alloy was 
visible in the image taken at Mrs As property, during the first inspection, but was missed by 
the inspector. It clarified that the second inspection after collection was more detailed and 
identified the alloy wheel damage. It said the scratch to the paintwork on the bumper wasnt 
acceptable and the charge was in line with its damage charge matrix. MBFS said the 
inspection company had no record of the collection being rescheduled.
Mrs A remained dissatisfied; she brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. He thought the scratch to the bumper was outside 
the industry guidelines on fair wear and tear, provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). And said the charge for the front alloy damage was fair as 
although it wasnt noted in the report, the damage was visible in the image taken during the 
first inspection.
Mrs A disagreed. She asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why below. 
Mrs A complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs 
As complaint about MBFS. 
Mrs A has only disputed the charges relating to the front right-hand alloy wheel and the front 
bumper, so Ill only consider these in turn.
damage & charges
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mrs A for the damage. Looking at Mrs 
As agreement, this says
 You must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards If you fail to take 
reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in accordance with the 
manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will have to pay our 
costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle 
So, considering this, I think Mrs A agreed to return the car in a condition in line with MBFS 
Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) and she agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. Ive 
also considered if the charges were fairly applied. 
As well as the VRS, Ive also considered the BVRLA guide to fair wear and tear. I 
understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful benchmark when 
considering whats fair and reasonable.
scratch to front bumper
In relation to the bumper, the VFS says
Dented bumpers and/or any dents penetrating through to the base material where painted is 
not acceptable.
 
The BVLA guidance says
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided, they can be polished out 
Mrs A says that the area with the bare metal is around 13mm so doesnt exceed 25mm, so 
doesnt think this should be chargeable. But that isnt the standard that applies. It is clear 
from the photos that the length of the entire bumper scratch exceeds 25mm and an area of 
the scratch has bare metal visible. In accordance with the guidance any visible bare metal is 
unacceptable. So, Im satisfied MBFS has fairly applied this charge.
MBFS has confirmed its repair costs are set and detailed in its price matrix which would 
have been available to Mrs A when she signed the agreement and are also available online. 
Mrs A says the £210 charge is excessive and says she has been quoted in the region of 
£150 for the bumper repair. However, Mrs A hasnt provided any evidence to confirm the quote and it is not clear whether the body shop who quoted the repair saw the actual 
damage. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded the bumper repair cost is unreasonable. 
front right hand spoke alloy damage
In relation to the alloy wheel damage the VRS says
scrapes greater than 50mm to the rim or damage to the wheel spokes, fascia or hub of the 
alloy wheels are not acceptable. 
The BVRLA says
Scuffs up to 50mm of the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Mrs A says the first inspection report didnt identify any damage to the alloys. However, I can 
see damage to an alloy wheel in a photo labelled wheel LHR which was attached with the 
first inspection report. Its not helpful that the photo was incorrectly labelled LHR instead of 
RHF in the first inspection, however, the second inspection in May 2022 details the damage 
to the right-hand front alloy spoke. So, Im satisfied there was damage to the front right-hand 
alloy when the car was initially inspected.
Having looked at the photo of the alloy wheel labelled wheel LHR taken during the initial 
inspection. Im satisfied that the scuffing exceeds the 50mm allowance. So whilst I 
appreciate the labelling of the photo may have caused some confusion I dont think it is 
unreasonable for MBFS to apply this charge.
collection rescheduled
Mrs A was unhappy that the collection of the car was rescheduled by the collection company 
and so was returned after the term had ended. Mrs A has provided a screenshot of text 
messages from the collection company, which confirms it was responsible for the delay. 
Whilst MBFS said the collection company didnt have any record of rescheduling the 
collection date, it hasnt applied any charges for the extra days. And I think this is fair and I 
dont require MBFS to do anything further.
   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman