DRN-3725403
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wrongly paid 
sums demanded by the freeholder of their property in relation to their leasehold property.
Mr S1 brings this complaint on his own and Mr S2s behalf. Ill refer to them jointly as Mr S1 
throughout.
What happened
In 2007 Mr S1 took out a five-year interest only mortgage of around £390,000 which was 
secured over his leasehold property. The mortgage hasnt been paid off although the term 
has expired.
In 2021 Mr S1 failed to pay sums demanded by the landlord in relation to ground rent, 
insurance premiums and legal costs. Despite a dispute marker on the account, which was 
designed to prevent payment before Mr S1 had had a chance to object, Halifax paid the 
charges on his behalf when the landlord requested payment. And they added the charges to 
the mortgage account.
Mr S1 complained. Halifax acknowledged theyd overlooked the marker and upheld the 
complaint. They credited the mortgage account with the part of the payment that related to 
ground rent and legal charges. And they paid £75 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience. But they refused to refund the insurance premium. Mr S1 didnt accept the 
outcome. So, he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator thought Halifax had done enough to put things right by refunding some of 
the payment, paying compensation and taking steps to avoid payments being made in the 
future. He didnt think Halifax should reimburse the insurance premium given the mortgage 
allowed them to pay it on Mr S1s behalf, and the risk to Halifaxs security of the property not 
being insured. Since Mr S1 didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont mention in my decision all the points the parties have made in relation to this 
complaint. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the 
service we provide. Id like to reassure the parties Ive carefully considered everything 
theyve said in reaching my decision. 
Halifax have made several payments to the freeholder in response to demands for payment 
of service charges, ground rent and insurance premiums over recent years. Mr S1 has 
complained to Halifax before about that and other issues. And hes brought previous 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman. Another ombudsman decided we could only look at 
some of those complaints since the remainder were brought outside relevant time limits. And 
she issued a decision on the complaints we could consider in August 2021.
I cant consider any of the complaints the previous ombudsman looked at. I can only 
consider the complaint Mr S1 makes about the payment Halifax made in December 2021 
and his concerns about the service Halifax provided. In relation to that, Ive come to the 
same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage require Mr S1 to make any payments due in 
connection with the property on time and to keep to any obligations concerning the property. 
He must also make sure the property is insured. If Mr S1 fails to make the payments, Halifax 
may pay them on his behalf. So, in case theres any misunderstanding on Mr S1s part, 
Halifax have a legal basis on which to make the payments if he fails to make them.
It's not unreasonable for a lender to expect a borrower to comply with these obligations. 
Thats because theres a risk to the lenders security if the sums arent paid. In simple terms, 
a freeholder can take steps to repossess a property where sums due under the lease arent 
paid. And the value of a property may be affected if its damaged and there is no insurance 
to fund repairs. 
Mr S1 has been disputing the charges demanded by the freeholder over several years. 
Halifax noted on Mr S1s records that there was an ongoing dispute. When the freeholder 
demanded payment from Halifax in November 2021, they wrote to Mr S1 at his overseas 
address allowing him 15 days to object. This was in line with their internal guidance, but not 
the note on Mr S1s account that he should have longer to respond. They made payment 
shortly before Mr S was able to respond objecting to payment being made. Halifax 
acknowledged theyd made a mistake and refunded part of the payment, as Ive mentioned. 
Halifaxs reason for not reimbursing the insurance premium is that theres a risk to their 
security if the property isnt insured. Ive considered carefully whether it was reasonable for 
Halifax to pay the premium, and not to reimburse Mr S1, in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Broadly, Halifaxs guidelines say they should pay the insurance premiums, whether or not 
theres a risk of the lease being forfeited where the premiums are unpaid, if the policy is 
going to be withdrawn. The freeholder was insuring the whole of the property, which was of 
mixed residential and commercial use. I think its unlikely they would have failed to pay the 
insurance premium simply because Mr S1 hadnt paid his share. That could have breached 
their obligations to the other leaseholders and put their own interest at risk if the property 
was damaged in any way. But its possible the freeholder could have withheld any insurance 
monies for repairing Mr S1s property if it was damaged. And that could have put Halifaxs 
security at risk. On balance, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to pay the insurance 
premium on Mr S1s behalf to protect their own position. 
Mr S1s disappointed Halifax have failed to investigate his allegation that the freeholder is 
acting fraudulently. And he says Halifax ought to have done more to question the calculation 
of the insurance premium, which he thinks is wrong. 
I note Mr S1 has raised his concerns about the freeholder with the appropriate authority. But 
Im not aware hes taken any further steps or provided any substantive evidence to Halifax to 
support his allegations. I wouldnt expect Halifax to get involved in a dispute between Mr S1 
and the freeholder. Halifax checked the solicitors demanding payment on the freeholders 
behalf were legitimate. And they asked them about the basis on which the premium was 
charged and how it was calculated. I note Mr S1 feels they should have done more. But I 
think they did enough. It was reasonable for Halifax to rely on the explanation the solicitors 
provided in ensuring the premium was properly demanded. 
If Mr S1 remains concerned about the charges the freeholder is raising, its for him to take further action. Given the situation has been going on for several years, Id encourage him to 
take legal advice about resolving the dispute with the freeholder to avoid further issues 
arising in relation to the lease and mortgage. 
I think the £75 Halifax paid Mr S1 for the inconvenience he was caused by their mistake and 
the service they provided was fair.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Halifax need to take any further action to put things 
right. So, whilst I understand they will be disappointed, I dont intend to uphold Mr S1 and        
Mr S2s complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman