DRN-4082112
The complaint
Mrs B complains that more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home Finance (SLHF) didnt 
allow her to take a lifetime mortgage because of concerns about whether she had 
appropriate insurance in place for her property, and caused delay in resolving the problem.
What happened
Mrs B lives in a property which was converted to residential use in 2017. Mrs B and her 
former husband had an interest only mortgage over the property. Following their separation 
and divorce, Mrs B agreed to remove him from the mortgage and also had to repay the 
capital. 
Mrs B applied to SLHF for a lifetime mortgage in her sole name to repay the existing 
mortgage. The property was valued in April 2022 and SLHF asked Mrs B for details of her 
building warranty provider. A building warranty is a form of insurance that protects a newly 
built property against problems with construction, commonly for ten years.
At first Mrs B told SLHF that she thought there was a warranty in place and she was 
checking with the builder. However, it turned out that there was in fact no warranty in place. 
SLHF said it would accept a retrospective warranty  that is, a warranty taken out now some 
years after completion. SLHF sent Mrs Bs mortgage broker a list of warranty providers it 
would accept. There were three providers it said it would definitely accept, and a further 18 
which it said might be acceptable but would need further consideration. 
SLHF issued a mortgage offer in June 2022, but with a condition that the mortgage would 
only complete if an acceptable warranty was in place. It offered to lend £143,000 at an 
interest rate of 3.58%.
Mrs B contacted an insurance broker to obtain quotes for a warranty, and received a quote 
for around £4,500. She wasnt happy with the quote shed received. She says she had 
concerns about what shed read online about the insurance company, although the company 
was on SLHFs list. So she made enquiries of several of the other providers on SLHFs list. 
But she had difficulty in finding another provider which would offer a retrospective warranty. 
Mrs B did find another provider which wasnt on SLHFs list  Ill call this warranty provider A. 
A quoted around £2,000 and wrote to SLHF to ask to be added to its approved panel on 
24 June 2022. 
SLHF didnt reply to A until 20 July 2022, when it said it would review whether As warranty 
would be acceptable. 
The mortgage offer initially expired in late July 2022, and SLHF agreed an extension to 8 
September pending resolution of the warranty issue. 
On 26 August, SLHF agreed that As warranty was acceptable. However, around the same 
time it had separately decided that as a matter of policy it would no longer accept 
retrospective warranties  though it didnt tell Mrs B, her broker or solicitor this at the time. 
As the mortgage offer was due to expire on 8 September, Mrs Bs solicitors asked if the offer 
could be extended. SLHF refused to agree a further extension, and as completion could not 
be arranged before the deadline, the offer expired and Mrs Bs mortgage did not go ahead.
Mrs B complained. SLHF agreed that it had delayed in considering whether to approve As 
warranty. And it agreed it hadnt told Mrs B that from the end of August even if she managed 
to obtain a retrospective warranty it would no longer be acceptable. It offered Mrs B £500 
compensation.
Mrs B wasnt happy with that. She said that SLHF had delayed in approving As warranty. 
And it hadnt in fact ever told her that it had agreed to accept As warranty, or that it had 
changed its policy about accepting retrospective warranties. She said that if SLHF had acted 
more quickly, shed have been able to put the warranty in place and the mortgage would 
have been able to complete before the deadline. She was relying on the lifetime mortgage to 
repay her existing mortgage, whose term ends in July 2023. In resolution of her complaint, 
Mrs B wanted SLHF to honour the mortgage offer. She said that interest rates have 
increased considerably since this offer was issued in June 2022, so if she took a lifetime 
mortgage from another lender, it would be substantially more expensive.
Our investigator thought SHLF had made a fair offer. It had delayed in considering whether 
to accept A as a warranty provider. However, even if it had accepted A sooner, there was no 
guarantee that the specific warranty A would have provided in respect of Mrs Bs property 
would have been acceptable. As no warranty was in fact in place, SLHF had never had the 
chance to review it and so that couldnt be known. She also noted that the delay could have 
been avoided if Mrs B had chosen one of the providers on the list SLHF sent her rather than 
A. So she didnt think it was fair to require SLHF to honour the mortgage offer.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that 
shed not been able to obtain a warranty she was happy with from a firm on SLHFs list, and 
had been recommended to A. SLHF had had plenty of time to approve As warranty, and if it 
had done so Mrs B would have been able to meet the conditions in the offer and go ahead 
with the mortgage. And she said that because of the pressure to repay her existing mortgage 
 not least because she needed to remove her former husband from it as a condition of their 
divorce  she had now been forced to sell her property. She said that she would now 
consider £4,000 compensation plus her financial losses an acceptable resolution of the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its standard practice when a property is constructed  or when, as here, converted from 
non-residential use with substantial works  to obtain a building warranty to insure against 
defects in the construction and related risks. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for SLHF to want to be sure there was an acceptable 
warranty in place before it would agree to lend. 
This was a lifetime mortgage, which is not designed to be repaid by Mrs B during her 
lifetime, and on which she didnt need to make any interest payments. A lifetime mortgage is 
generally repaid when the property is sold by the borrowers estate after their death. And in 
the meantime, because no interest is paid, the mortgage balance can increase substantially and may end up at or near the propertys value. 
Therefore, if there are any defects with the propertys construction or conversion which come 
to light after the mortgage is taken out, that could have a serious impact on SLHFs ability to 
recover the mortgage balance in due course. Defects could reduce the propertys value, or 
make it hard or impossible to sell. And so SLHF wanted to be satisfied that there was an 
insurance policy in place to cover that possibility. This is a standard requirement, and it 
wasnt unreasonable for SLHF to ask for this.
The difficulty is that there was no warranty in place on Mrs Bs property. I dont know if she 
carried out the conversion herself, or if she bought the property after it was converted. If she 
carried out the conversion herself, Id have expected her to make sure there was a warranty 
in place on completion. And if she bought it after the conversion, Id have expected her 
solicitor to have checked there was one as part of the conveyancing process. 
But whatever happened, the fact is that when Mrs B applied to SLHF, there was no warranty 
in place. And without one, it wouldnt be willing to lend.
SLHF said it would accept a retrospective warranty, if Mrs B could obtain one  provided 
both that the warranty itself met its requirements, and that it was issued by a firm acceptable 
to SLHF.
Mrs B did obtain a quote for a warranty in early June 2022. But she decided not to accept 
that quote, because she says she was concerned about information shed found online 
about the provider.
She then obtained an alternative quote, from A. But A was not on SLHFs approved list. It 
asked to be added to the list on 24 June 2022. SLHF didnt deal with this request until the 
end of August 2022, and even then didnt tell Mrs B or her broker either that it had agreed to 
approve A, or that it had meanwhile changed its policy to no longer accept retrospective 
warranties.
SLHF agrees that it was at fault for this. It should have responded to A much sooner, and it 
should have told Mrs B that it would consider a warranty from A, and then that it would no 
longer consider retrospective warranties at all.
Therefore, the key issue for me to decide is what SLHF needs to do to put matters right. Its 
offered £500 compensation. Mrs B doesnt think this is enough. She initially wanted us to 
direct SLHF to lend her the mortgage. But as shes since sold the property, she now wants it 
to pay her £4,000 compensation plus her financial losses.
I do think SLHF acted unfairly here. It should have dealt with As application much sooner, 
and told Mrs B that it would accept warranties from A. If it had done that, its possible Mrs Bs 
mortgage application might have completed before the offer expired on 8 September.
However, its also possible that Mrs B still wouldnt have been able to complete on the 
mortgage. SLHFs approval of A was only the first stage of the process. Not only did SLHF 
have to approve A as a warranty provider in principle, it also had to approve the terms of the 
specific warranty it would offer over Mrs Bs property as being suitable to protect its security 
in this case.
As Mrs B never obtained a warranty from A, it was never available to be considered by 
SLHFs underwriters. So theres a real risk that SLHF wouldnt have accepted the adequacy 
of the specific warranty A offered in this case, even if it accepted A as a warranty provider in 
general.And even if SLHF had accepted As specific warranty over Mrs Bs property, the other 
requirements of the process also had to be carried out before the mortgage could complete 
 and so there are other things that could have gone wrong, potentially preventing Mrs B 
completing the mortgage in time. 
I dont think it was unreasonable that SLHF didnt agree to extend the mortgage offer again. 
By early September, it had changed its policy and no longer accepted retrospective 
warranties  which it was entitled to do. In the meantime, interest rates had risen and the 
funding this offer was based on was coming to an end. A mortgage offer cant be kept open 
indefinitely, SLHF had kept this one open beyond its initial expiry, but wasnt willing to extend 
it further after it decided it was no longer happy to accept retrospective warranties. When its 
policy changed SLHF didnt withdraw the offer  but once it expired, it was no longer willing 
to extend it either. I dont think this was unfair.
With all that in mind, I dont think I can say that its more likely than not that but for SLHFs 
delay the mortgage would have completed. 
I must also bear in mind that SLHFs delay between 24 June and the end of August was not 
the only reason Mrs B didnt complete the mortgage in time.
As Ive said, there was no warranty in place on Mrs Bs property  despite it being standard 
practice for building conversions of this nature. SLHF isnt responsible for that.
And Mrs B did get a quote from a warranty provider on SLHFs approved list in June. She 
could then have accepted that quote and asked SLHF to approve the specific warranty over 
her property at that point. If SLHF had approved it, the mortgage would then likely have 
completed in July or early August. But Mrs B chose not to accept that quote  and SLHF isnt 
responsible for that either.
For all those reasons, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold SLHF solely 
responsible for the mortgage not completing in time. It might not have gone ahead even if it 
had approved A as a warranty provider sooner. And it wasnt responsible for there not being 
a warranty on the property in the first place, or for Mrs Bs decision to use A rather than the 
other provider.
But SLHF did delay considerably, and this contributed significantly to the upset Mrs B felt at 
what was already a stressful time. Its offered £500 compensation in recognition of this, and 
in all the circumstances Im satisfied thats a fair offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that more 2 life Ltd  trading as Standard Life 
Home Finance has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay 
Mrs B £500 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman