DRN-4305796
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mortgage Express failed to provide the correct advice on his mortgage 
when this was taken out. And he has been trapped on an interest only mortgage since as a 
result.
What happened
Mr G took out a new interest only residential mortgage in 2007. The mortgage was sold by a 
broker (company A) and the mortgage was provided by another lender, (company B). In late 
2007, the mortgage was transferred to Mortgage Express and it has continued as the 
mortgage provider since this date.
In 2021, Mr G complained to Mortgage Express about his mortgage. He felt he had been 
mis-sold the mortgage when it was first taken out. As a result, he feels hes been trapped on 
the standard variable rate (SVR) since his product ended in 2009 and is unhappy hes still on 
an interest only mortgage.
Mortgage Express looked at the complaint and said it wasnt responsible for the sale. It said 
company A sold the mortgage to Mr G and if he wanted to complain about this being mis-
sold, hed need to raise a complaint with it. It provided company As details so this could be 
pursued if he wished to do so.
It didnt agree it had acted unfairly when applying the SVR and explained this had been done 
inline with the terms of the mortgage after the initial product rate expired in 2009.
Our investigator looked at Mr Gs complaint and said she didnt think this service could 
consider all of it. She said that company A sold the mortgage but Mr G had brought his 
complaint about the sale of the mortgage too late for it to be considered.  So even if 
Mortgage Express was responsible for this, it had been brought too late for us to look at.
She asked whether Mr G was unhappy about the SVR and Mr G explained that his 
complaint was about the mis-sale and being trapped because of the mortgage being offered 
to him when he believes it shouldnt have been. 
Because Mr G disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July this year and said the following:
I dont think this service can consider all of Mr Gs complaint points and for those that we can 
consider, I dont think Mortgage Express has done anything wrong and Im not planning on 
upholding this part of his complaint.
I know Mr G will be disappointed by this outcome, but Ill explain what parts of his complaint 
are not something we can consider and why I dont think Mortgage Express has acted 
unfairly.
What we cant consider 
I agree that Mr Gs complaint about the mis-sale of his mortgage is not something this 
service can consider. But the reason why I dont think this service can consider it is different 
to that of our investigator. Before we consider whether the complaint has been brought in 
time, we need to be satisfied that the complaint is against the correct business, responsible 
for the event complained about.
Mortgage Express did not sell the mortgage to Mr G, so despite being the lender, it is not 
responsible for the advice given at the sale. This was and is the responsibility of company A. 
Any complaint about the sale will need to be brought against it and this is not something 
Mortgage Express can or would be able to respond to.
It appears company A is no longer trading, but Mr G can refer his concerns about the sale 
and claim he feels is due to the Financial Services Compensation Service (FSCS) and our 
investigator has provided details on how to do this within the cover letter to this decision.
But as Mortgage Express did not sell the mortgage to Mr G, this service cannot consider a 
complaint against it for this as it is not responsible for the advice.
What we can consider
Mr G hasnt said he is unhappy with the SVR rate applied to his mortgage but has said as a 
result of the mortgage being mis-sold, he was trapped on an interest only mortgage and was 
unable to move to a different repayment product.
I think this service can consider this part of his complaint. What Ive considered is whether 
Mortgage Express made it clear that Mr G had options with his mortgage and whether it 
treated him fairly when discussing these with him. This also links to whether I think it was 
made clear to Mr G that his mortgage was interest only  so was he aware his payments 
were not repaying the capital.
Weve been provided the mortgage statements for some of the years Mr G has had the 
mortgage with Mortgage Express. I think these provided Mr G with information that would 
have allowed him to be aware that his mortgage was interest only and that he needed to 
have a plan in place to ensure that the capital could be repaid at the end of the term.
Together with the balance on the account remaining the same, as payments cleared only the 
interest, the statement contained the following wording in bold type:
 This is an interest-only mortgage. Your mortgage payments do not include the costs of any 
savings plans or other investments you may have arranged to build up a lump sum to repay 
the amount you borrowed. It is important to check regularly that your savings plan or other 
investment is on track to repay this mortgage at the end of the term.
So I think Mortgage Express did make it clear how the mortgage was operating and that 
Mr G needed to make sure he had a repayment plan for the capital balance. But I dont think 
it indicated anywhere that it was unable to offer Mr G an alternative product or change his 
mortgage from interest only to repayment.
Over the years Mr G had the mortgage, there is very little contact with Mortgage Express 
until he raised his complaint. And at no point have I seen that Mr G attempted to change his 
mortgage in anyway. Hes explained in his own belief that he wouldnt have been able to 
change his mortgage but I dont think this is based on a conversation with Mortgage 
Express. So overall, Im not persuaded it has done anything wrong when Mr G remained on 
the SVR after his initial product expired and I see no reason to ask Mortgage Express to do 
anything else.Mr G responded to say he disagreed with the outcome. He accepts that the mortgage was 
sold by company A but still has strong feelings about why the mortgage was not suitable. 
And he has asked questions which relate to company A and the information it had at the 
time of the sale. He also reiterated why he felt trapped with the mortgage and why he didnt 
feel he could approach Mortgage Express to find an alternative repayment product.
Mortgage Express had nothing further to add so the complaint has been passed back to me 
for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered this complaint and the information provided by Mr G. Having done so, I see 
no reason to depart from the provisional decision set out above. 
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr G has about his mortgage and whether company A 
should have sold this to him. But as Ive explained, this is not the responsibility of Mortgage 
Express and so I cannot consider this part of his complaint against it. And any questions 
about the sale documentation and what was take at the time would need to be directed to 
company A.
Mr G hasnt disputed that he didnt contact Mortgage Express sooner to see whether it could 
provide an alternative mortgage. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me that it has acted 
unfairly when Mr Gs mortgage remained on the SVR after the  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman