DRN-2960200
The complaint
 Mr B complains about Tilney Investment Management Services Limited. Hes unhappy that 
they kept data relating to a previous complaint he made after hed been informed it would be 
destroyed. Hes also unhappy with the content of emails written by their staff and he believes 
that theyve made an unfair decision to increase his fees after he made a complaint about 
them. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Tilney have accepted that the service theyve provided to Mr B fell short of the 
standards required. Theyve acknowledged that they provided him with incorrect 
information regarding the retention of his data and that the content of their emails 
wasnt as it should have been. 
Theyve explained that the data has been deleted from their live systems and is now 
held in an email archive which is only accessible through their IT team. Specific 
authority from their Data Protection officer would be required before anyone would be 
able to view it. Theyve confirmed that this authority would not be granted in any 
event as there was no longer a legitimate interest for anyone to view it. 
Theyve also explained that they are migrating to a new system in the near future 
which will allow them to delete the data. Theyve confirmed they will contact Mr B to 
discuss deleting the data once theyre in a position to do so. I think this is a fair 
resolution to Mr Bs concerns about his data being held unnecessarily.
Ive then reviewed the emails in question, and I agree that aspects of their content 
would have caused Mr B upset and therefore he is due compensation.
Ive then considered if the compensation Tilney have offered for both areas is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Taking everything into account, I think that the 
£500 theyve offered is in line with what I would award if no offer had been made.
The other aspect of Mr Bs complaint is regarding the increase in platform fees. Hes 
benefitted from a reduced rate since 2017 and I dont think its unreasonable that 
Tilney made the decision to end the preferential rate and charge Mr B the same as 
their other clients. 
I appreciate that Mr B thinks the change of rate was brought about by his complaint, 
but Ive seen no evidence to suggest this is the case. I agree with what the 
investigator has said  it seems more likely than not that the preferential rate 
wouldve been removed sooner if the complaint hadnt been raised, but instead it was 
extended as part of the complaint resolution.
For the reasons given above, I think Mr Bs complaint should be partially upheld. 
Putting things right
Tilney Investment Management Services Limited should pay Mr B £500 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and direct Tilney Investment 
Management Services Limited to pay Mr B compensation as detailed above if they havent 
done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman