DRN-4091403
The complaint
Mr L complains about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) terminating his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS.
The total repayable under the agreement was £35,266. Mr L was required to make 48 
monthly payments of £458, and a final payment of £13,252.
Mr L said hed been unwell since May 2021 and had been admitted to hospital in September 
2021. He said he was in arrears and the reason for this was directly related to his ill health. 
He said hed never missed a payment prior to his illness. He said that he told VWFS in 
January 2022 that he was willing to clear the arrears. He said that he contacted VWFS after 
he came out of hospital to set up a repayment plan. But he said VWFS ignored his 
exceptional circumstances and terminated the agreement.
He said hed explained to VWFS why he relied on the car for work and family reasons. He 
also said VWFSs actions had caused him significant stress and anxiety, and his mental 
health was deteriorating.
He said he offered VWFS a payment plan that would clear the arrears, or asked that VWFS 
extend the agreement by six months. He said that VWFS told him that the only options 
following termination of the agreement were to return the car, or repay the full amount owed 
on the agreement.
VWFS said that when they terminated the agreement Mr L was in arrears for June 2021, 
September 2021, October 2021, November 2021, and December 2021. They said Mr L had 
breached the terms of the hire purchase agreement, so they were entitled to terminate it.
They said they had communicated with him through December 2021, advising him his 
agreement was at risk of termination if he didnt pay the arrears in full. They said Mr L had 
told them he had been unwell and that he was able to start payments in January 2022. They 
said they wrote to him on 12 January 2022 seeking confirmation that the payments were 
affordable. They also said that theyd told him he had to reply within seven days as the 
agreement was at risk of termination.
VWFS said theyd taken Mr Ls circumstances into account, and theyd allowed additional 
time to make payments or agree a plan to clear the arrears. They said they terminated the 
agreement on 20 January 2022 when he didnt clear the arrears and didnt complete an 
income and expenditure form. They said Mr L complained to them on 25 January 2022, and 
they wrote to him on 19 May 2022 not upholding his complaint. In that letter they told him 
they would arrange recovery of the car and gave him three weeks to arrange alternative 
transport.
Unhappy with their response, Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator said hed 
reviewed all the correspondence between VWFS and Mr L from July 2021 to the termination 
date. He said he was satisfied that theyd given information about the amount of arrears, 
including issuing default notices that explained the consequences of not clearing the arrears. 
He noted that VWFS had attempted to discuss the arrears with Mr L on several occasions 
and had tried to arrange a payment plan that was affordable to him.
He said that VWFS were entitled to terminate the agreement in November 2021 but had 
allowed Mr L two more months to review his financial circumstances. He also said that 
VWFS didnt have to accept Mr Ls offer to pay the arrears in instalments because the 
agreement had already been terminated. 
Mr L disagreed. He said VWFS caused the whole situation by refusing to accept a payment 
plan.
Because Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make
a final decision. I sent Mr L and VWFS a provisional decision on 16 March 2023. In this 
decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that VWFS refused to accept a payment plan to clear the 
arrears after he came out of hospital. He wanted to keep the car, and offered to make 
payments that would allow him to keep the car.
Hes unhappy that VWFS terminated the agreement, and wouldnt unwind this, even after 
hed made offers to clear the arrears.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
Im not satisfied that VWFS paid due regard to Mr Ls interests and treated him fairly. And 
Im not satisfied they provided the necessary forbearance and due consideration expected 
by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCAs Handbook sets 
rules and guidance for firms like VWFS. CONC 7.3 of the Handbook deals with how firms 
treat customers who are in arrears or default.
CONC 7.3.2 reminds firms they must treat customers in arrears or default fairly  in line with 
Principle 6. CONC 7.3.4 requires them to treat customers in default or arrears with 
forbearance and due consideration.
And CONC 7.3.6 requires VWFS to allow the customer, Mr L, reasonable time and 
opportunity to repay a debt where they are in arrears difficulties.
I accept that Mr Ls health issues and hospitalisation prevented him from engaging with 
VWFS. I can see why VWFS decided that termination of the agreement was the appropriate 
next steps. They had issued default notices and other correspondence to Mr L since July 
2021. These included arrears letters, formal Notice of Sums in Arrears, and a default notice: 
and this notice explained why he was in breach of the agreement, and that he needed to pay 
the arrears before 23 November 2021 or they may terminate the agreement and recover the 
car.
On 13 December 2021 in response to a message from VWFS, Mr L confirmed that he had 
been extremely unwell. He also said that he would make a payment that month, resume normal direct debits in January 2022, and clear the arrears by the end of the following 
month.
On 10 January 2022 he apologised for not responding and explained that he had been 
unwell again, but he still wanted to pay by direct debit.
On 12 January 2022 VWFS acknowledged his email, confirmed his outstanding balance, 
explained his next payment was due on 27 January 2022, and asked him if he could afford 
to make the payment. 
Importantly, they also explained that they required him to respond within seven days or they 
would terminate the agreement. I can see why they took the decision to terminate the 
agreement: he had said hed make payments in December and January but hadnt done so, 
and he had failed to respond in the seven days period theyd given him.
But I dont think that was fair or reasonable. They were fully aware of his continuing ill health, 
that hed been in hospital, and how this had prevented him communicating. I can see that 
they reviewed the file and considered that Mr L wasnt vulnerable. I disagree. The FCAs 
definition of vulnerable consumers includes those who, like Mr L, are struggling with ill 
health. VWFS shouldve considered Mr L as vulnerable, and if they had, I dont think they 
would have terminated the agreement at that point.
I think they should have contacted Mr L before termination and explain what they were about 
to do. If they had, he would have told them how reliant he was on the car, and his willingness 
to agree a payment plan. Instead, they engaged a recovery agent, and this was how Mr L 
discovered the agreement had been terminated.
After the agreement was terminated, Mr L offered to repay the arrears through a payment 
plan  this was proposed by him, by a debt advisor, and by his solicitor. But VWFS refused 
this, saying it was too late as the agreement had already been terminated.
I dont think this was fair or reasonable  CONC 7.3.8 requires firms to allow customers in 
default or arrears difficulties alternative, affordable payment amounts to repay the debt due 
in full. So VWFS shouldve considered Mr Ls proposal. If they had done so at that time I 
expect they wouldve found he could afford the payment plan that shouldve been put in 
place.
VWFS should now agree a suitable and affordable payment plan with Mr L. I remind them 
that CONC 7.3.3.3 says that firms can allow unmade payments to be made beyond the 
original term of the agreement.
Putting things right
Ive explained above why I wouldve expected VWFS not to terminate the agreement without 
making further contact with Mr L. Ive also explained why they shouldve considered his 
payment plan.
VWFS should do what they can to keep Mr L in the car. In this case they should consider 
unwinding the decision to terminate the agreement. I understand this may involve setting up 
a new agreement.
They should agree a suitable and affordable repayment plan with Mr L to clear the arrears 
and bring the account up to date. Im satisfied that its appropriate for Mr L to pay all 
outstanding arrears payments as hes had continuous use of the car since the termination in 
January 2021. So its reasonable that he pays for that usage.VWFS should remove any charges applied for termination or late payment.
Mr L has explained how this situation has affected his mental health. I dont underestimate 
the distress hes felt. I agree this situation couldve been avoided if VWFS had acted 
differently at the time. So I propose an award of £750 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. VWFS accepted it.
Mr L accepted my findings but didnt agree that he should have to pay the outstanding 
arrears. He also explained why he felt that my award for distress failed to reflect the serious 
implications on his health, nor the substantial loss of earnings he said was caused by 
VWFSs refusal to accept a payment plan, and the time it has taken for this complaint to be 
upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above. 
Ive paid particular attention to Mr Ls comments about the impact of VWFSs failure to treat 
him in line with the FCA rules at the time. Ive also read the points hes made in his 
subsequent responses. I want to reassure Mr L that Ive considered all of his points even if I 
havent referred to them below.
For the reason I stated in my provisional decision Im satisfied that Mr L should pay for the 
use of the car. Mr L says that he shouldnt have to pay back the arrears because he has not 
been able to use the car for his business  he said he lost 90% of his business, and he 
attributes this to VWFSs failure to accept a payment plan, offered by him and by his 
representatives.
Mr L said that his ill health caused him to default on his mortgage, and this meant he couldnt 
get finance for another car. Ive carefully thought about this, and Im not persuaded that the 
fear of losing the car was the sole cause of his loss of business, and income. Irrespective of 
how VWFS treated him, they kept him mobile  and thats why I dont feel it fair to hold 
VWFS responsible for that loss.
Mr L told our investigator he had a plan in place to clear the arrears. But he now doesnt 
think its fair that he has to pay the arrears because there wouldnt have been any arrears if 
VWFS had accepted his offer of a payment plan in January 2021.
I dont think its reasonable to allow free use of the car. Mr L used the car for the full period, 
and VWFS halted all proceedings when the complaint was brought to this service. And I 
havent seen anything that shows they pursued him for the amounts owed during this time. I 
appreciate that he feared that VWFS would take the car from him. He said it was that fear 
that prevented him from accepting new work because he cannot do his type of work without 
a car.
But he had the car, he was using it, and VWFS wasnt taking steps to recover it from him. So 
I cant say its reasonable that he doesnt pay for that usage. I appreciate the significant impact on Mr Ls physical and mental health. Mr L has said how 
VWFSs actions led to a loss of business and subsequent income  Ive explained why I 
dont think VWFS is responsible for those losses.
Mr L described my award as a fine and set out why a more substantial fine would act as a 
deterrent and encourage them to rethink their approach to customers like him and treat them 
fairly. My role isnt to fine businesses for their mistakes. My role is to make an award that 
reflects the impact on the customer. The award Ive made I think reflects the considerable 
distress and upset caused to Mr L and is line with our approach as set out on our website.
I understand this has been a challenging period for Mr L. He was seriously unwell, in and out 
of hospital, and unable to work. He was clearly vulnerable and VWFS shouldve recognised 
this and treated him fairly, by agreeing a payment plan with him at the time and allowing him 
to stay in the car. Its right that VWFS should do what they can to keep him in the car, but as 
Ive explained above, its reasonable that Mr L pay the arrears for the period hes had the 
car. VWFS and Mr L need to work together to agree an affordable payment plan that will 
allow him to stay in the car.
Putting things right
VWFS must take the necessary steps to keep Mr L in the car. They should unwind the 
earlier decision to terminate the agreement. I understand this may involve setting up a new 
agreement.
They should agree a suitable and affordable repayment plan with Mr L to clear the arrears 
and bring the account up to date. This remains subject to Mr L agreeing to an affordable 
payment plan.
VWFS should remove any charges applied for termination or late payment.
VWFS should pay £750 to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes been caused
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman