DRN-2589319
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about Lloyds Bank PLC. He says they mis-sold him term life assurance 
in 1994.
What happened
In 1994, Mr L was about to start post-graduate studies. He applied for a loan at Lloyds. Soon 
after hed applied, a Lloyds representative visited his home and told him hed need to take 
out life assurance, otherwise the loan wouldnt be approved. 
Mr L says he didnt have time to look for alternative finance providers before his course 
started so felt that he didnt have a choice and had to take out the life assurance policy 
offered by Lloyds.
Mr L says he first complained to Lloyds about this policy in 2013, thinking it was payment 
protection insurance (PPI). Although Lloyds replied to him about PPI on two other loans Mr L 
had taken out with Lloyds, they didnt reply about this one. So Mr L complained again in 
2019. After many attempts to contact Lloyds and chase them for updates on the complaint, 
Mr L brought his complaint to our service.
Mr L was unhappy that he hadnt been told life assurance was a condition of the loan at the 
point of application  only after applying, and by a salesman in his home. He felt the amount 
hed paid for the term assurance had significantly impacted his career decisions and 
opportunities. And he was unhappy about how long Lloyds took to look into his complaint.
Lloyds sent a final response to Mr L. They said the paperwork from the time of sale shows 
Mr L was happy to proceed with their representatives recommendation of term assurance. It 
showed the policy would be held as security by the bank and was designed to pay off Mr Ls 
loan obligations if he died before repaying his loans. 
Lloyds added that at the time it wasnt unusual for them to insist on life cover being in place 
to protect a substantial loan. So they said the policy was appropriate for Mr Ls 
circumstances. Lloyds concluded that they hadnt done anything wrong in selling Mr L the 
policy, but they apologised for the length of time it had taken them to address Mr Ls 
complaint and offered him £300 as compensation.
Our investigator said Lloyds were allowed to set their own criteria when considering an 
application for a loan. She felt it wasnt unreasonable to require Mr L to take out a life 
assurance policy. And she thought Mr L had enough time to change his mind about the loan 
and see if he could borrow from a different lender. Finally she said our service cant look into 
complaints about complaint handling as it isnt a regulated activity - so she wasnt able to 
comment on that aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L wasnt happy with our investigators outcome. He said he continued to feel strongly that 
Lloyds had abused their position and forced him into taking out their life assurance. He 
hadnt been given any option to look into whether it was the best product in terms of value 
and fairness. And he was upset the requirement for life assurance hadnt been explained to 
him when he applied for the loan, but only when the representative visited him. Mr L also 
said hed only applied to borrow £8,000 so it didnt make sense for the term assurance to 
have such a high sum assured. Mr L asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint  so 
its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately theres limited information available about the sale of Mr Ls term assurance, 
and particularly about the related loan(s). In the absence of any more information Im not 
upholding Mr Ls complaint  Ill explain why.
The notes from the sale of Mr Ls policy show that Mr L had no income at the time and no 
dependents. They set out that Mr Ls objective in taking out the term assurance was purely 
to protect the loan. These notes conclude by saying that a term assurance plan for around 
£35,000, at a cost of £50.00 per year, would be suitable. Mr L signed these notes to say that 
hed accepted the recommendations. In his complaint to us, Mr L said he didnt have the 
opportunity to properly review these notes and felt they werent completely accurate. 
However, he has signed the notes  and the small changes hes now suggesting wouldnt 
appear to make any difference to the overall recommendation.
The policy schedule shows that the product Mr L bought was level term assurance for six 
years, starting in October 1994. It had a sum assured of £44,500, and annual premiums of 
£60.12. This sum assured is nearly £10,000 higher than the amount on the notes from the 
sale  so it looks like something must have changed between the Lloyds representatives 
visit to Mr L and the start of the policy. But unfortunately Ive seen no information that helps 
explain this.
Lloyds have told us that that Mr L had two loans in place at the time of the sale, and 
provided account numbers for both. They said both loans were closed in July 2000. 
Unfortunately, neither Lloyds nor Mr L has been able to provide any information as to the 
value of the loans. Mr L says he only remembers one loan, a postgraduate study loan for 
around £8,000  but Lloyds stated they wouldnt have required life cover of £44,500 for a 
loan of that amount.
Id have expected the sum assured on the policy to broadly match the amount of the loans 
Mr L had with Lloyds. Mr Ls told us that he didnt have to start paying off his postgraduate 
loan until after he completed his studies. So it would have accumulated interest and the total 
debt would initially have increased before starting to be paid off. So it would be suitable for 
the total amount of the policy to be somewhat higher than the total amount Mr L initially 
borrowed. However, without knowing more about the amounts Lloyds lent to Mr L, the 
interest rates applied, and the repayment profile, I cant be certain that there is an exact 
match between the sum assured and the value of the loan(s) with interest, but as the term of 
the policy matches the term of the loans I do think its likely Lloyds assessed Mr Ls needs in 
this regard.
Mr Ls complaint seems to centre around the circumstances of the sale. Hes said he was 
upset that there was no mention of life assurance when he applied for the loan. But I dont 
think its unreasonable for Lloyds to apply different conditions for different consumers 
depending on the amount of the loan and the consumers circumstances. Lloyds wouldnt 
have known of Mr Ls circumstances until they processed his loan application. 
Mr L was also upset that he didnt have time to look elsewhere for a loan and was therefore 
forced to take the Lloyds policy. I dont think this was Lloyds fault. I cant see of any significant delay between Mr Ls application for the loan and the meeting in which Mr L was 
told the policy was a condition of lending. 
I know Mr Ls also said the amount he paid for the policy had an impact on his career 
choices. But this appears to have been based on the understanding that he paid £60.12 per 
month, whereas Im satisfied the policy cost £60.12 per year. So Im satisfied the impact on 
Mr L was much less than hes estimated.
I know itll be disappointing for Mr L but I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong. Lloyds were 
allowed to ask for life assurance as a condition of lending to Mr L. Without evidence of the 
amounts Mr L was borrowing at the time, I cant say the policy was unsuitable.
The second part of Mr Ls complaint was that Lloyds had taken too long to address his 
complaint. While I can understand that this was frustrating for Mr L, Im satisfied we cant 
look at this aspect. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, and therefore is out of our 
jurisdiction.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman