DRN-4377402
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr A with a loan for £4,100.00 in October 2021. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £212.87. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr A and Everyday Loans had told us. And he 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. Mr A disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr A could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr As application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and Mr As bank account statements which he 
was asked to provide. In its view all of this information showed Mr A could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr A has said he should never have 
been provided with this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr A and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Loans clearly asked Mr A to provide quite a bit 
documentation to support his application. So I dont think that this was a case of Everyday 
Loans simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face 
value. 
Indeed, Mr A was asked to provide bank statements. Everyday Loans credit searches also 
showed the existing debts and defaults Mr A has referred to. But having reviewed Mr As 
statements, I cant see anything obvious on them which indicated Mr A wouldnt be able to 
make the repayments to this loan even allowing for reasonable payments to his defaulted 
accounts. And I dont agree that Everyday Loans needed to obtain even more bank 
statements from Mr A  particularly as there isnt a set requirement to even obtain any bank 
statements in the first place. 
Ive seen what Mr A has said about being told to apply for a loan of £4,100.00, rather than 
£4,000.00 as it had more chance of being approved. I dont know if Mr A was told this or 
whether the £100 did actually improve the chances of Mr As application being approved. But 
what is clear is that Mr A knew his application was for £4,100.00 and thats the amount he 
received.  
I accept that Mr A says he experienced difficulty making the payments. But Everyday Loans 
could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And the information it had and which Ive been provided with now all point to the loan being 
affordable at the time. As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything 
wrong when deciding to lend to Mr A. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr As complaint, I would remind Everyday Loans of its 
continuing obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should be the case that 
Mr A is experiencing difficulty and it chooses to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman