DRN-2634109
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) decision to decline his claim 
under his marine insurance policy.
What happened
Following an accident in September 2019, Mr B made a claim for damage to his boat. The 
damage was described as the boat experiencing heavy impact with submerged rocks. His 
grandson was operating the boat at the time of the accident.
Following an investigation, RSA declined the claim because it felt the following policy 
conditions werent complied with:
You shall maintain, and keep the insured Vessel, including any trailer, in a proper state of 
repair and Seaworthiness (and/or roadworthiness) and shall at all times exercise Due Care 
and Diligence in safeguarding it and
When the insured Vessel is under way there will be a suitably experienced person on board, 
and in charge
RSA did not feel Mr Bs grandson was suitably experienced on the basis that:
He allowed the vessel to drift beyond his familiarity of the local waters
He continued at speed into an area of restricted navigable water
He failed to use appropriate navigational equipment available on the vessel
Further, it said Mr Bs grandson evidenced his own lack of experience to be in charge of a 
vessel.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she hadnt seen any evidence Mr Bs 
grandson was speeding, that he was using a compass at the time of sailing, and that she 
hadnt seen any evidence that Mr Bs grandson was lost or unaware of his location. Further, 
there is no requirement of the policy for boating qualifications to be obtained and RSAs 
expert hasnt said whether Mr Bs grandson was suitably experienced enough or not at the 
time of the accident.
RSA responded. It said because Mr Bs grandson let the boat drift uncontrollably, he didnt 
observe the policy requirement to exercise due care and diligence in safeguarding it. It said 
there is evidence of excess speed on file and there is a clear concession that Mr Bs 
grandson was not sufficiently experienced by him subsequently (i.e. after the incident) 
apparently obtaining an appropriate boating qualification (although no evidence has been 
provided to support this by the customer).
Our investigator maintained her decision and the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA declined the claim because it felt Mr B didnt satisfy two policy conditions. A policy 
condition is a term in the policy wording that requires a consumer to do something in order to 
remain covered.
Under the general conditions, there is requirement that When the insured Vessel is under 
way there will be a suitably experienced person on board, and in charge.  Ive looked at the 
policy definitions and it doesnt say what RSA considers is suitably experienced. If it did, 
this would allow the policyholder to ensure that he always met this policy condition.
So, in the absence of a policy definition of suitably experienced, I considered whether Mr 
Bs grandson can be considered suitably experienced. And given that hes been using a boat 
for approximately five years prior to the accident, and his familiarity with the area where the 
accident occurred, my view is that this condition was met, and Mr Bs grandson was suitably 
experienced.
I would add there is no mention in the policy that someone with qualifications needs to be on 
board when the vessel is underway.
RSA also said that Mr Bs grandson wasnt exercising due care and diligence at the time of 
the accident. RSA said that Mr Bs grandson was speeding. The report from RSAs expert 
said the boat was travelling at about ten knots and that it was travelling at speed. But there 
is no comment on whether the boat was travelling at excessive speed and why it considered 
the speed the vessel was travelling at, at the time of the incident equated to not taking due 
care and diligence.
RSA also said that the vessel was left to drift uncontrollably whilst Mr Bs grandson fished. 
RSAs expert makes no mention of Mr Bs grandson not being in control when drifting. And 
RSA didnt explain why allowing a boat to drift whilst fishing meant that Mr Bs grandson 
wasnt exercising due care and diligence. 
Further Mr B said that his grandson was very familiar with the local waters, having been 
there with family and friends in the past. This suggests Mr Bs grandson was in control of his 
whereabouts.
Putting things right
Based on the evidence I have, Im not persuaded that RSA has sufficiently shown Mr B 
didnt meet the policy conditions it relied on to decline the claim. I instruct RSA to reconsider 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reconsider the claim 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman