DRN-2780083
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd trading as Monzo merged payment details into one that 
meant his credit card account was not paid.
What happened
Mr S says he had two credit card accounts with the same company I will call N. He says he 
set up payment details on his Monzo application (app) but it merged the two accounts into 
one which meant one of his credit card accounts didnt receive a payment. Mr S says the 
mistake caused distress and inconvenience and he had to borrow money to pay one of the 
accounts. He would like a further £50 compensation
Monzo says the payment details are the same for both accounts and that is why its systems 
changed the account details. It says Mr S can distinguish the payments by using separate 
references or would need to manually change the account names. Its paid £30 for the delay 
in investigating the complaint and paid £25 as a gesture of goodwill but says it cant change 
its systems.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought we couldnt order Monza to change its process about this issue as it has said at 
present it cant, and that we are not its regulator. The investigator thought the £55 
appropriate.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says Monzos online pages changed the details from each 
company as he tried to make a payment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Monzo has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Monzo has fairly explained to Mr S what took place and why. That as the 
two credit card accounts were both with N, that Monzos systems automatically changed the 
details when given the account details of N. Im also satisfied that Monzo has fairly explained 
to Mr S that he needs to use a separate reference number to distinguish the payments. I 
appreciate that may not be the solution that Mr S would have liked but I cant fairly order 
Monzo to change something it knows cant at present be changed. I also make clear to Mr S 
that we are not Monzos regulator and so its not our role to tell it how it runs it business or 
processes.
I appreciate Mr S was caused inconvenience in speaking to Monzo about what took place. 
But I think Monzo has acted fairly by paying what I think is a fair and reasonable award of 
£55. I have not seen any evidence that what took place resulted in a cost to Mr S and am 
satisfied he was given an explanation about what took place shortly after telling Monzo about 
the problem. For those reasons I cant fairly order Monzo to pay further compensation to Mr 
S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman