DRN-3271901
The complaint
Mrs E complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline her claim for the 
theft of two bikes under her home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs E had two bikes that she kept chained and locked together in her back garden. She 
says they were positioned under a gazebo in front of her kitchen window from where they 
were stolen. She made a claim online, which was accepted and UKI offered a settlement 
payment. But she says UKI later withdrew this offer and declined the claim. 
UKI says that when Mrs E registered her claim online, she advised the bikes were locked but 
didnt elaborate further. It says this is why the claim was initially accepted. After investigation 
it says it found out the bikes were locked together but not in a building or secured to an 
immovable object. UKI says this was a requirement of the policy and so no cover was in 
place for the loss and it declined Mrs Es claim. 
Mrs E says the bike chain was very heavy and would weigh down the gazebo and was so 
thick she couldnt attach it around a pipe. Mrs E says she doesnt have a shed and has 
always secured the bikes in the same way. She says she uses the bikes when her mood is 
low, and this helps make her feel better. Not having the bikes has caused her a lot of stress. 
Because UKI maintained its decline decision Mrs E referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought the policy terms were clear in how 
the bikes must be secured. As Mrs E hadnt secured them in this way there was no cover in 
place for the loss. Mrs E responded to say she didnt understand why UKI made her an offer 
and then changed its mind. Our investigator queried this with UKI and confirmed it did this 
before it was aware the bikes hadnt been secured in the way required.
Mrs E wasnt happy with this outcome. She didnt think UKIs decline decision was fair. She 
says she has been with UKI for four years and this was her first claim. Because of this she 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Mrs Es policy terms. Its clear she is covered for the theft of a bicycle, but UKI 
has relied on the following exclusion under the section on Personal Possessions, which 
says:
We will pay for accidental loss of or damage to: 
the theft of an unattended bicycle, but only if it is in a locked building or secured with a bike 
lock to an immovable object. 
Mrs E says the two bikes were outside in her back garden when they were stolen, so not 
inside a locked building. They were locked together using a chain, but this wasnt attached to 
anything else. The policy requires bikes to be secured with a bike lock to an immovable 
object. The policy doesnt define what an immovable object is but the dictionary definition of 
this is something that: 
cannot be moved physically; firmly fixed; incapable of movement.
I acknowledge Mrs E had always kept her bikes in the same place locked together, and that 
this was in view of her kitchen window. But I think UKIs decision to decline the claim was 
fair, as I dont think she secured the bikes in the way required by the policy. The terms are 
clear in that this is how the bikes should be secured. Mrs E was prompted to read the terms 
under the Important information section to ensure she knew exactly what cover was 
provided.   
Im sorry that Mrs E has suffered the loss of her bikes and will have to pay for replacements 
herself. I understand this has been a distressing experience. But I think UKI treated her fairly 
when relying on its policy terms and declining the claim for the reasons it gave. So, I cant 
reasonably require it to do anything more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman