DRN-3686762
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed 
its bank account without warning.
Mr A is Ms director, and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
Mr A wanted to obtain a Bounce Back Loan for M from Barclays. The company needed to 
bank with Barclays before it could apply for the loan  and while Mr A banked with Barclays, 
M did not. So the company applied for a business current account and one was duly opened 
in August 2020.
M then submitted a Bounce Back Loan application to Barclays and Mr A responded to the 
banks various requests for information while it reviewed the request. The application was 
ultimately declined.
Barclays subsequently decided to close Ms bank account. It did so with immediate effect on 
16 October 2020. No transactions had been made through the account, so there was no 
money due to either M or the bank.
Barclays also decided to end its relationship with Mr A, and closed all of his personal 
accounts. Those actions are the subject of a separate complaint.
When Mr A complained to Barclays, the bank maintained its decision. It said it wasnt 
possible to provide its rationale, but that having reviewed this it was satisfied that the 
decision was correct. Barclays also said it was entitled to close an account at any time in line 
with the terms and conditions. But the bank accepted that it shouldve given Mr A notice of 
the closure, in order to make alternative banking arrangements. It offered £200 by way of 
apology.
Mr A didnt accept Barclays offer, so he referred Ms complaint to us and it was reviewed by 
one of our investigators. She said, in summary, that:
Barclays had been entitled to withdraw its services and, having reviewed the basis of 
the banks decision, she didnt think it had made an error in doing so.
While recognising that Mr A wanted to know the reason for Barclays decision, the 
bank wasnt obliged to provide this.
As Barclays had accepted, more notice ought to have been given to enable M to 
make alternative banking arrangements. But for any inconvenience caused by the 
banks failure in this regard, she thought that £200 was fair compensation.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He believed that the banks decision was based 
on the Bounce Back Loan application and felt that the immediate closure of Ms account in 
light of this  and his longstanding personal relationship with Barclays  was bizarre. He 
didnt think it was fair that the bank wasnt obliged to give a reason. And with regard to 
compensation, Mr A said it was clear that Barclays had made an error and so needed to do 
more to put things right. The immediate closure of Ms account had, he said, meant that 
clients couldnt settle invoices and caused the company financial difficulty  although he 
didnt believe the extent of its losses could be quantified. 
Mr A therefore asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following a review of its relationship with M, Barclays decided to withdraw its banking 
services from the company. That was a decision it was entitled to make and Ive not seen 
anything that suggests it was unreasonable. 
I understand Mr A is unhappy that Barclays hasnt shared the reasons for its decision. But 
there is no requirement for it to do so. Such decisions are subject to some legitimate 
confidentiality, and I cant fairly compel the bank to share any more information about its 
decision than it already has. All I can do is reassure Mr A that Barclays has explained and 
evidenced its rationale to us and  having reviewed this  I dont think the bank reached its 
decision incorrectly or unreasonably.
However, although the terms and conditions of Ms account gave Barclays the power to 
close it without notice once the bank had reached its decision, Im not persuaded that it was 
reasonable to do so in the circumstances here. And Barclays has already accepted as much. 
Instead of closing Ms account immediately, the bank ought to have given the company at 
least the two months notice provided for within the terms and conditions. 
It is right, therefore, that M is compensated for the impact of having its account closed 
immediately  rather than having two months in which to make alternative arrangements. 
The company was always going to have to open a new account elsewhere, but I can see 
that having to do so immediately wouldve caused it a greater level of inconvenience.
Beyond that, however, Ive not seen that M has suffered any particular detriment. The 
company hadnt yet used the account, so there was no issue in reallocating funds or 
rearranging payment instructions. Mr A has said that being without the account caused a 
level of financial hardship, but he hasnt explained or evidenced what losses M incurred as a 
result of what Barclays did wrong. And it seems M was able to open a new account 
elsewhere by 23 October  within a week of the Barclays account being closed.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require 
Barclays to pay M any more than the £200 compensation it has already agreed to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay M compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 Ben Jennings
Ombudsman