DRN-1511689
The complaint
Mr J complains about TSB Bank Plcs decision not to carry out a chargeback for some of the 
cost of a holiday. Hes also unhappy with the customer service he received when 
complaining and when closing his bank account with TSB Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr J bought a holiday in January 2018. The holiday then took place in early April. Mr J 
wasnt happy with parts of the holiday, so he complained. He wanted some money back, but 
the holiday company decided not to give him any. 
In December 2018, Mr J asked TSB about making a chargeback on the account hed used to 
pay for the holiday. TSB looked at his contact with the holiday company, but decided not to 
do the chargeback. Mr J complained on 17 December about that decision. 
TSB gave a final response to the complaint in January 2019. They stood by their decision, 
but gave Mr J £25 as they felt thered been a delay dealing with the complaint. Mr J says he 
called TSB after getting that response, and was told the complaint would be reactivated. 
TSB say they have no record of that call, or of the person Mr J says he spoke to. 
By July, Mr J had got no further with his complaint, so he decided to close his account with 
TSB. But rather than being able to do this in a single trip to a branch some miles from his 
home, he ended up having to make two trips. Mr J added this to his complaint and, frustrated 
with the lack of progress, wrote to the chief executive of TSB in August. 
In their final response in September 2019, TSB said again that the decision not to go ahead 
with the chargeback claim was sound, and noted it had been out of time when Mr J came to 
them about it. They accepted though that there had been delays since January dealing with 
the complaint, and added £75 to the £25 already paid to Mr J. They separately paid a further 
£90 in compensation for Mr Js having to make two trips to the branch to close his account. 
Our investigator agreed that Mr Js reasons for doing a chargeback probably wouldnt have 
been successful. The investigator felt that the £190 TSB had given Mr J for the poor service 
was a fair amount. It appears TSB accept that view, but Mr J wants us to think again about 
the level of compensation he should get. 
This case has therefore come to me for a final decision. While I can appreciate Mr J feels 
strongly that TSB havent treated him well, Ill explain below why I feel the £190 
compensation theyve already paid him for that is enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see TSB discussed the chargeback with Mr J in December 2018. They said because 
the holiday company had rejected all of Mr Js issues, they couldnt make the claim. I dont 
really agree with that. The rejection of the issues meant TSB could expect a chargeback claim to be defended. A 
defended claim could then end up going to the debit card provider for arbitration. TSB would 
need to think about whether the available evidence supported the claim, as there would be a 
cost penalty for them if it didnt succeed. TSB could justifiably decide the risk of losing 
outweighed the benefit to Mr J of the claim succeeding, if the available evidence left them in 
doubt about the likely result. 
TSB mentioned the details of the holiday companys response in their December 
correspondence and concluded all points have been addressed. This hints at TSB thinking 
the claim wouldnt be successful at arbitration. But a more detailed explanation of the 
chargeback process and the reasoning being applied would have been better. 
Looking at the evidence for and against Mr Js issues, particularly as discussed by our 
investigator, I can see there was evidence that could justifiably lead TSB to think the claim 
might not go Mr Js way. 
I note in his 10 December 2018 email to TSB, Mr J described a similar choice hed had to 
make when he tried taking the issues to the holiday companys regulator. He decided not to 
risk £110 to have them investigate further, even though that might have got him the outcome 
he wanted if successful.
So I think TSBs actual decision was sound, as no one whos looked at the issues and the 
available evidence  myself included  is sure the chargeback would have been successful. 
But I think TSB could have done a better job of explaining their thinking to Mr J. 
One particular issue I have with TSBs responses to Mr J is that they should really have told 
him in December 2018 that he was too late to make a chargeback claim. Hed specifically 
asked about time limits when he brought up making the claim. But it looks like it wasnt until 
September 2019 that TSB finally told him he would have been out of time. 
The Visa chargeback rules say that a claim should be made within either 120 days of the 
service being purchased, or within 120 days of the service being received (as long as this is 
still within 540 days of the service being purchased). 
In this case, Mr J bought the holiday in January 2018, so 120 days after that would have 
been a date in May 2018. He went on the holiday in early April, so 120 days after that would 
be sometime in July or August 2018. By December 2018, both had passed. 
So again, the decision not to go ahead was sound, but the explanation should have been 
better.
A good complaint handling process could have put that right quite simply. The response on 
25 January 2019 to the complaint raised on 17 December came in a reasonable timescale in 
my view. But it again didnt really explain the full reasoning, so I can see why Mr J felt there 
was more to be discussed. Had that response, or the original explanation, included more 
detail, then some of what followed, and the upset it brought with it, could have been avoided. 
So I agree some compensation is appropriate to recognise the frustration and trouble 
caused for Mr J.
But I say that against a backdrop of the actual decision not to go ahead with the chargeback 
claim  the decision Mr J was complaining about  being sound. He hasnt lost out on 
making that claim, from what I can see. 
Putting a figure on the trouble and upset in a case like this is a matter of opinion, so I can 
totally understand that Mr J feels the way hes been treated justifies a different amount. Ive thought though about the willingness of TSB to accept where there have been failings. Ive 
thought about their continually professional tone. And Ive thought about how the payments 
theyve offered reflected what they genuinely felt were the right amounts to give Mr J.
With all this in mind, I find £190 is the right figure to recognise the impact the failings have 
had on Mr J. And I think it reflects that TSB being (justifiably) unable to help Mr J in his 
dispute with the holiday company was always likely to be a disappointing result for him.
My final decision
My decision is that TSB Bank Plc don't need to do anything further to resolve Mr Js 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman