DRN-2259403
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim they 
made after their car was stolen.
What happened
Mr M and Ms M had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. They made a claim after their car 
was stolen from their drive.
Aviva appointed investigators to look into the claim. Mr M and Ms M told those investigators 
the car was left unattended in the drive with the engine running and the keys inside. Mr M 
was defrosting the car before driving but had rushed back into the house because their child 
appeared to be in some distress.
Aviva declined the claim. They said the policy was clear that theft of the vehicle wasnt 
covered if the car was left unattended with the keys inside and the engine running.
Mr M and Ms M complained to Aviva. And when Aviva maintained their position, they 
brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr M and Ms M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about the facts surrounding the theft of the car. Mr M was 
with car in the drive whilst it was defrosting. He heard their child crying through the intercom 
at their front door. He could hear Ms M was with the child, but he was understandably very 
worried given that the child had previously had health problems.
Im very sorry to hear about the health issues that Mr M and Ms Ms child experienced. And I 
dont think anyone in those circumstances would blame Mr M for rushing back into the house 
and forgetting that the car was outside with the engine running and the keys inside. 
Mr M and Ms Ms drive isnt gated. There is open access from the road immediately outside. 
When Mr M returned a few minutes after going inside, the car was gone.
Aviva dealt with the claim as we would expect. That is, they established the facts  in this 
case by appointing investigators to visit Mr M and Ms M to take comprehensive statements 
from them - and they fully considered all the evidence and information before making a 
decision on the claim.
In the Exclusions section, the policy says Aviva wont pay for:
Loss or damage arising from theft while:
Your vehicles ignition keys have been left in or on your vehicle
Your vehicle has been left unattended with the engine running.
Theres also a more general term in the policy which says:
All persons insured must take reasonable care to safeguard your vehicle to prevent 
accidents, theft, loss or damage.
Mr M and Ms M say they werent aware of these parts of the policy. They say they werent 
sent the full policy documents at renewal. And they say the insurance was transferred from 
another car at some point in the past, which has confused matters.
However, Mr M has told us he did in fact receive the full policy documents but didnt read 
them in detail at the time. Mr M and Ms M would also have to accept some responsibility for 
knowing what they were insured for and what wasnt covered, given that Aviva did send the 
documents to them at the outset.
We wouldnt expect insurers to necessarily re-send the full policy documents at renewal. 
They are required to tell their customers about any changes to the policy, but I can see Aviva 
did do this when the policy was renewed.
Wed also expect that insurers would make potential customers specifically aware of any 
unusual or onerous conditions or exclusions before the customer committed to buying a 
policy.
In this case, the exclusions quoted above arent unusual  most if not all car insurance 
policies contain similar clauses. Customers might in fact expect that insurers wouldnt wish 
to cover theft of their cars when theyre left unattended and in a state that they can be easily 
driven away. 
And those exclusions arent onerous either. Its not inherently difficult to turn a car engine off 
and/or remove the keys  and/or indeed lock it  when leaving it unattended.
As I say, I dont think anyone would fail to have some sympathy with Mr M in these 
circumstances. Its understandable that he wanted to go inside quickly to see if his child was 
okay. And its very unfortunate for Mr M and Ms M that they were subject to this brazen, 
opportunist theft when they left their car unattended for only a few minutes.
However, the policy terms are very clear. And Aviva are entitled to set out the circumstances 
in which they wont cover theft of a vehicle. 
I know Mr M and Ms M want Aviva to take into account what they call the mitigating 
circumstances in this case. But Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to settle this 
claim. Aviva are entitled to ask their customers not to put their property at risk. And they 
were very clear in setting out from the outset the circumstances in which theft of the vehicle 
wouldnt be covered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman