DRN-2408108
The complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Miss M has told us she was a single mother and got behind with her childcare costs so 
had to keep reborrowing to stay afloat. Miss M also queried the amount of interest that was 
charged on the lending.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Miss M between 
November 2014 and April 2015. Miss Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Combined 
Repayment
1 08/11/2014 25/11/2014 1 £100.00 £135.00
2 26/11/2014 30/03/2015 6 £500.00 £258.33
3 30/03/2015 24/04/2015 6 £650.00 £243.53
4 24/04/2015 Outstanding 
balance6 £800.00 £318.93
In response to Miss Ms complaint, Mr Lender offered to recall the account balance from the 
debt management company to which it had been transferred and waive the outstanding 
balance. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ms complaint and thought that loan four shouldnt have 
been given because of the way in which Miss M was borrowing. Our adjudicator also 
addressed Miss Ms questions about the interest and concluded that it was in-line with the 
loan agreements.
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator. It said loans one to three were either repaid early 
or on time and the lending was affordable for Miss M. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss M didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss M had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. And after doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Looking at the way in which Miss M borrowed suggests that she wasnt able to sustainably 
repay her loans. Mr Lender has said that Miss M either repaid the loans on time or earlier 
than the original term. So it says the lending was affordable. 
But I disagree. Miss M was developing a pattern of repaying one loan only to return the 
same day (or one day later in the case of loan two) for further borrowing. And the amounts 
being borrowed were significantly increasing each time  from £100 at loan one up to £800 
for loan four. This pattern of repaying a loan early only to return for further borrowing immediately 
afterwards, and for a higher amount, suggests that Miss M was struggling with her finances 
and was juggling her money in order to make ends meet. As this is one of Miss Ms 
complaint points, I think this is most likely. And the fact that loan four is still outstanding 
would indicate this was in the fact the case. 
I think Mr Lender should have recognised the pattern of borrowing and that it was 
unsustainable for Miss M, and it shouldnt have agreed to loan four. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan four and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M at loan four, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt Mr Lender should buy it back if Mr Lender is able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender cant buy the debt back, then Mr 
Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on this loan. If this results in Miss M having made overpayments 
then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss M. Mr Lender shouldnt pursue any outstanding balance made up 
of principal Mr Lender has already written-off.
C) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
relation to loan four. Mr Lender does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Miss Ms credit file until it has been repaid, but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman