DRN-1745916
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund two disputed cash withdrawal made from 
her account. 
What happened
Mrs W says two ATM withdrawals for £170 made on 10 and 15 October 2019 werent done 
by her. Shes provided her clocking in sheet to show she was at work when the second 
transaction took place. 
Mrs W still had her card in her possession and says it was on her at all times. She keeps it in 
her purse, which is in her handbag and always checks she has it before leaving for work, 
along with her work pass and anticoagulant card.  
Mrs W lives alone and didnt have anyone staying with her during the period of the disputed 
withdrawals. She does have family coming in and out to visit but when asked what she did 
on the days between 10 and 15 October 2019, she didnt say she saw any of them. Instead 
she was either at work, on her own at home or visiting a friend. When at work Mrs W keeps 
her handbag under her desk and takes it with her when she goes to lunch, or its stored in a 
locked locker which she can see from her desk. 
Mrs W says her PIN isnt written down and shes never told it to anyone. 
TSB didnt uphold Mrs Ws fraud claim as it was satisfied the genuine card was used to 
make the ATM withdrawals and there was no point of compromise for this or the PIN. It also 
pointed out that there were no balance enquiries before the disputed withdrawals and the 
transactions were only possible due to the credits into the account the day before. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She believes her card 
mustve been cloned or the ATM hacked or tampered with. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She couldnt see how anyone couldve taken 
and replaced Mrs Ws card without her knowledge. She also pointed out that the 
transactions were only possible because of the credits into the account and no one else but 
Mrs W wouldve known the balance. In addition to this Mrs W checked her online banking 
during the period of the disputed withdrawals but didnt report them. She found this odd 
given the discrepancy in the balance wouldve been obvious. 
Mrs W disagreed re-emphasising the fact she didnt make the two disputed withdrawals. She 
doesnt think its been investigated that her account couldve been hacked or remotely 
accessed, explaining how someone else may have known her balance. 
Because Mrs W disagreed, her complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions 
as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
In short, TSB is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Mrs W says 
she didnt make the ATM withdrawals and is therefore seeking a refund. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or I not I think Mrs W authorised these 
transactions. 
Having reviewed the transaction history, Im satisfied the withdrawals were carried out using 
the genuine card and PIN. Mrs W believes her card couldve been cloned or the ATM 
tampered with, however, I dont agree. There is no evidence here to suggest this is the case, 
especially as TSB has been able to show the chip in the card was read for the ATM 
withdrawals. And despite what Mrs W has said, Im persuaded by the evidence that on 
balance, she must have authorised the transactions. Ill now explain why. 
Mrs W was still in possession of the card after the disputed withdrawals and the audit 
information shows she used it on 14 October 2019, so during the period of the disputed 
withdrawals. As Ive explained, Im satisfied it was this card that was used to make the 
withdrawals and not a cloned card. It therefore seems extremely unlikely an unknown 
fraudster carried out the withdrawals. This would mean them taking the card from Mrs W and 
replacing it on two separate occasions, all without her knowledge. I would see no benefit to 
an unknown fraudster in doing this and so have ruled out this possibility. 
Ive considered whether it couldve been someone close to Mrs W that carried out the 
withdrawals without her consent. This is more possible, as they would be in a better position 
to take and replace her card and possibly know her PIN from observing her enter it in the 
past. 
However, Mrs W lives alone and didnt have anyone staying during the period of the 
disputed withdrawals. She also didnt see anyone regularly enough on her days off from 
work, to allow someone the opportunity to take and replace the card. So, Ive ruled this out. 
When at work Mrs W says her bag (which contains her purse and card) is kept under her 
desk and she takes it with her when she goes on her lunch break or its in a locked locker. 
This makes someone taking her card at work seem unlikely. However, I will note that Im 
sure there are the odd occasions Mrs W leaves her bag unattended under her desk, perhaps 
when going to the toilet for example. So, I acknowledge this scenario isnt impossible. This 
being said, Im not persuaded the most likely scenario is that someone known to Mrs W 
carried out the transactions without her consent. 
On both occasions the withdrawals were only made possible by credits into the account the 
day before. There were no balance enquiries made using the card. It therefore seems too 
coincidental that someone other than Mrs W would know exactly how much could be 
withdrawn from the account and at what times. This is especially the case with the first 
withdrawal which took the balance down to £6.99. I also note that £170 is a very specific 
amount to withdraw and matches the amount of the credit Mrs W received from her son the 
day before. 
Mrs W has said that someone mustve been able to hack her account, and this is how they 
wouldve known her balance. However, the online/mobile banking audit doesnt support this. 
It shows that the only person logging into Mrs Ws account was her and we know this because the device used to login via the mobile app matched all her previous logins back to 
August 2019. 
The audit provided by TSB also shows usage of automated telephone banking on 9 October 
2019  and where this has been bypassed and an actual agent spoken to. Ive listened to 
these calls from 9 October and these were also carried out by Mrs W. So again, there is no 
explanation as to how anyone but her wouldve known the balance on the account. 
In these calls, Mrs W discussed pending transactions on her account in relation to a free trial 
shed signed up for. Mrs W discussed cancelling her card. However, she told the agent shed 
have to call back and do this as she needed to make a cash withdrawal before cancelling the 
card. The only cash withdrawals made after this call were the disputed ones. I therefore 
believe this supports the fact the withdrawal was most likely carried out by Mrs W. 
Mrs W logged into her mobile banking at 5:13 on 10 October 2019. The disputed £170 
withdrawal took place at 5:36. Mrs W then logged back into her online banking at 7:16 and 
18:04 that day, as well as twice on 11 and 14 October 2019. The first £170 withdrawal took 
Mrs Ws balance down to £6.99. Given Mrs W wouldve seen her balance only two hours 
prior, I find it unusual that she didnt notice the majority of the money in her account had 
been withdrawn, when logging in on 10 October 2019. 
Also, when discussing the pending free trial transactions with TSB on 9 October 2019, Mrs 
W was very distressed with how low her balance was and her ability to pay her bills. Given 
her clear concern over her balance, Id find it even more likely she wouldve noticed the 
withdrawals had been made when logging in to check her balance over the coming days. It 
therefore seems most likely that Mrs W had carried out the withdrawals and this is why she 
didnt report them to TSB during this time.  
The withdrawals also took place at a location Mrs W uses regularly for her grocery shopping 
and ATM withdrawals. Again, this seems very coincidental if it was someone other than Mrs 
W given how many other possible ATMs there are in that area. 
I understand Mrs W has provided her clocking in sheet to show she was at work when the 
second disputed withdrawal took place. But I cant safely rule out that she wasnt able to 
leave her office briefly to make the withdrawal or give someone else her card to make the 
withdrawal for her. The other evidence I have detailed above satisfies me this mustve been 
the case, rather than the withdrawals being done by someone other than Mrs W without her 
consent. 
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that Mrs W authorised the disputed ATM 
withdrawals. Because of this, I wont be asking TSB to refund her.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman