DRN-1647158
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined their claim for 
the costs of legal assistance made under their travel insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Mr and Mrs R were joint policyholders, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mrs R.
 What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
In 2016 Mrs R was on holiday with several members of her family. Sadly, there was a tragic 
incident which caused injury to many of the family members (including Mrs R) and resulted 
in the death of Mrs Rs mother.
Mrs R had the benefit of cover for certain legal expenses which was provided by UKI as part 
of their annual travel insurance policy. There was a personal injury claim between Mrs R and 
the third party involved. This was dealt with outside of the policy and had concluded prior to 
the circumstances of this claim. 
In 2019 Mrs R became aware that there was going to be a coroners inquest into the 
circumstances of her mothers death. The coroner recommended that she and her family 
seek legal representation. 
Mrs R contacted UKI and asked for the cost of that representation to be considered under 
her policy. UKI considered this and whilst they sympathised with the circumstances and 
difficult position Mrs R was in  they declined the claim. They explained that the policy didnt 
provide cover for the costs she wished to claim.
Mrs R complained and when UKI maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was 
similarly sympathetic, but she agreed that the policy didnt provide cover in these 
circumstances and didnt recommend that UKI needed to do more. 
As she still disagrees, Mrs R has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mrs R, so Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mrs R and her family have a genuine need for legal representation at the 
Coroners inquest. And that having such representation would undoubtedly be useful to them 
in such difficult circumstances. UKI have said they arent liable to pay those costs under the 
terms of the policy. My role here is to consider whether UKI have acted in line with the policy 
terms and fairly when saying that. 
Under the heading Legal Assistance Mrs Rs policy says: We will pay up to £50,000 for 
legal costs to help you claim damages or compensation: for injury, illness or death, which 
happens during your trip There is also further cover for a breach of contract or being 
detained whilst abroad which are both clearly inapplicable to the circumstance of this 
complaint. The word you is given a specific definition within the policy of: The policyholder 
and anyone who is listed as insured in your policy schedule.
The legal assistance Mrs R is claiming for is to attend the Coroners inquest into her 
mothers death. She says her presence is required there as an interested person. As Ive 
said above, I dont doubt this is correct. But the policy only provides cover for legal costs to 
help claim damages or compensation in relation to those covered by the policy. Not the 
costs to attend Coroners court in these circumstances. As well as not covering the type of 
costs being claimed, Mrs Rs late mother isnt one of those who was covered by this 
insurance policy. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there simply isnt cover for the costs of attending Coroners court in 
these circumstances. So, I dont think UKI are being unreasonable or treating Mrs R unfairly 
when refusing to meet these costs. It isnt to say that Mrs R isnt in genuine need of legal 
assistance, or that it would make very difficult circumstances easier for her. But if the policy 
doesnt include cover for incurring these costs, I cant fairly ask UKI to pay the claim.
I appreciate this leaves Mrs R in a difficult position and Id like to add my sympathies for her 
loss to those already expressed by our investigator. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman