DRN-3407695
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as
Everyday Loans provided him with loans that he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Mr D took out the following loans from Everyday Loans:
Date 
taken outAmount Term - 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentDate 
repaid
Loan one 10/4/18 £4,000 30 £219 8/11/18
Loan two 8/11/18 £4,700 30 £245 27/2/19
Loan one was taken out to repay a number of loans Mr D had, and to consolidate the 
monthly repayments into one more affordable figure. Loan two was taken out in part to pay 
off the remaining balance of loan one.
Mr D said that at the time of applying for the first loan he already had loans with multiple 
payday lenders and the payment for the Everyday loan made his financial position 
significantly worse. For both loans Everyday Loans carried out the following checks:
Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from the customers primary 
bank account.
Obtaining and reviewing one months payslip, and Mr Ds P60, to establish average 
income over the year.
Conducting a Credit Search.
Carrying out a job check.
As part of its underwriting, it used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data and figures to 
calculate the living expense element of affordability. 
In respect of loan one, it said Mr D had a disposable income after accounting for the loan 
repayment of around £892 per month. For loan two it said he had a disposable income of 
around £372 per month. In both cases it said that the checks it had carried out established 
that the loans were affordable.
In respect of loan one, this loan was taken so that Mr D could pay off some existing loans,
which he did. For loan two Mr D paid off loan one and received a cash payment of £1,082.
Mr Ds representative supplied an up to date credit report and bank statements for two
accounts, covering the period around both loans.
On review our adjudicator said that for both loans Everyday carried out proportionate
checks. And that those checks didnt show that any further investigation of Mr Ds finances
should be carried out. She pointed out that for loan one he was able to pay off a number of
loans which brought his monthly liability down considerably. With regard to loan two she
thought this was affordable bearing in mind Mr Ds history and the up to date checks carried
out by Everyday.
I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the adjudicators view concerning loan one. 
However, in respect of loan two I said that Everyday hadnt made a fair lending decision, and 
should repay all interest and charges on the loan.
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under the agreements.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Here Mr D was taking out high interest loans, in both cases for 30 months. The 
instalments require a substantial commitment from him. So I think that Everyday needed 
to carry out thorough assessments for both loans.
loan one
When Mr D approached Everyday, he was in financial difficulty. He had a number of high 
cost and payday loans. His bank accounts both joint and sole, were overdrawn. He also 
had a high amount of credit commitments payable out of his income (about 51%). He was 
clearly not managing; and he had explained to Everyday that one pay day loan company 
was talking to him about his entering an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). However 
the loan monies enabled him to pay off five loans, and saved him having to enter into an 
IVA, by paying off the said payday loan. The sum of the instalments on those loans added 
up to £750. Taking into account the instalments for this new loan, this brought down his 
credit commitments by £531 per month.
I see from his bank statements that Mr M paid off those loans. So though he still had high 
credit commitments over his income (about 33%) they were considerably lower than before. 
I think Everyday carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision.
loan two
I think for this loan, the situation was different. Apart from paying off loan one, thereby 
extending the repayment period by another 30 months and giving Mr D a cash payment, I 
cant see what the purpose of this loan was. When Mr D approached Everyday for this loan, 
his credit commitments after loan one had gone up by around £285 per month, meaning that 
they were now about 40% of his income. The cash payment, as far as I can see, wasnt 
used to pay off any loans. I note also that his disposable income had gone down by over 
£500 since the first loan.
Again I think that Everyday carried out proportionate checks. But bearing in mind Mr Ds 
history with it, I think that those checks should have alerted it to the fact that Mr D hadnt 
been able to avoid increasing his credit commitments by taking out new loans. I 
understand that the instalments increased by only about £25, but I dont think this loan 
helped Mr D with his finances. So in respect of this loan, I dont think Everyday made a fair 
lending decision.
As nether party has made any comments on my provisional findings, those findings are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
In respect of loan two as to the appropriate remedy, Mr D has had the capital sum so shouldrepay that. But I think Everyday should refund all interest and charges for this loan.
Everyday should:
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan two.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement. *
remove any negative information about loan two from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to
take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
In respect of loan one I dont uphold the complaint.
In respect of loan two I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading 
as Everyday Loans to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman