DRN-2672705
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK PLC has processed a withdrawal of £450 from his 
account that he doesnt recognise.
What happened
Mr P contacted Santander when he saw the cash withdrawal for £450 made on 3 December 
2019. He had been into the branch the day before and a withdrawal of £50 had been shown 
then. He is unhappy about the way Santander has explained and recorded what it says was 
an error. And that he wasnt notified about it at the time.
Santander said that the cash balance for one of its cashiers was short by £450 on 2 
December 2019. Branch staff had reviewed CCTV the next day and confirmed that Mr P had 
received £500 in cash but in error had only been debited for £50. This was corrected with a 
withdrawal the next day for £450. It apologised to Mr P and as hed also said he hadnt 
received a letter about this paid him £75.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander do anything further. He said that 
unfortunately this came from human error on the part of Santander when the cashier had 
input the wrong withdrawal amount. But it was entitled to correct this, and it had said the only 
way to do this was by making a further withdrawal dated the next day. Santander had paid 
Mr P £75 to recognise the inconvenience and that more should have been done to tell him 
what happened at the time.
Mr P didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that this money could 
have been from anyones account that day. He didnt make a withdrawal the next day. And 
he only received a letter about this six months later. He remained very unhappy and wanted 
an ombudsman to review this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Santander to contact branch staff to confirm the appropriate checks had been made 
at the time. It provided comments from the branch saying that staff were certain that the 
error had been identified on Mr Ps account and corrected. But that there was now limited 
evidence to support this.
Mr P explains in his complaint to this service that he first noticed what happened in March 
2020 but wasnt able to raise this in a branch until June 2020. At that time, he was handed a 
copy of a letter about this which Santander said was sent to him in December 2019. 
Santander cant evidence that, and the original letter was undated, and Mr P says he didnt 
receive it. Santander has accepted responsibility for that.
Mr P raised this complaint in June 2020. By then no CCTV was available and branch staff 
considered this error had been resolved. Ive seen from his bank statement that Mr P 
seemed to have used his account and made other withdrawals at the same branch after the 
disputed one. And so, there was an opportunity for him to notice any error. In my view what 
made him later think that there was a problem was the way the two entries had been 
recorded. 
It was incorrect to record that Mr P had made a withdrawal of £50 on 2 December 2019 and 
then £450 on 3 December 2019. Showing the entries in this way seemed to be convenient 
for Santander but has caused inconvenience to Mr P. It accepts that it would normally have 
balanced its tills the previous day. This error did seem difficult to identify and involved going 
through CCTV which seemed to take a number of hours. That is why the correction - 
although unfortunately not described as such -  came the following day.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im considering what is most likely. 
On balance I accept that this was a careless error by a cashier in branch and which wasnt 
rectified in a timely way. Mr P didnt receive an explanation about this until June 2020 which I 
understand gave him little confidence in what hed been told. But I dont find he has lost 
£450 as he thought. The compensation hes been paid for the inconvenience caused is 
adequate and so I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Santander UK Plc need 
do no more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman