DRN-3514792
The complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) made a mistake when he requested to 
transfer funds from his Cash ISA which resulted in him suffering a financial loss as well as 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr B asked to transfer £10,000 from his YBS Cash ISA to his share ISA account at another 
bank. But YBS transferred all of the funds and then closed his Cash ISA. He says that there 
were several weeks when he didnt know where his money was and that YBS kept changing 
its plan to rectify the situation. YBS offered Mr B £300 which he accepted on the basis this 
was for the distress he had been caused and that he would pursue a claim separately for his 
financial loss. He says that his intention was to transfer the £10,000 to his share account to 
purchase shares and that due to the delays caused by YBS he wasnt able to take full 
advantage of an opportunity which he calculated caused him a financial loss of £1,110.
YBS said that Mr B requested a partial transfer from his Cash ISA to an account at another 
bank. However due to human error a full transfer took place with a cheque for the full 
amount of Mr Bs funds (over £90,000) being sent to his bank on 8 February 2021. It wrote to 
Mr B to confirm the transfer and when Mr B contacted it on 12 February it acknowledged its 
mistake and confirmed this would be rectified. YBS contacted the other bank on 15 February 
but the cheque couldnt be stopped. It took steps to chase the return of the excess funds and 
this happened on 12 March 2021. It says that Mr B would have been in receipt of the funds 
in his other bank account from the latest 15 February and so could have invested the 
£10,000 at that time had he wished. It confirmed it had applied an interest adjustment to 
reflect the time the funds were out of Mr Bs Cash ISA. It considered its offer of £300 
compensation was reasonable.
Our investigator thought the £300 offered by YBS was a reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. He noted the distress that Mr B experienced by not being aware of where his 
money was for around three weeks and he thought the £300 offered was reasonable redress 
for this. He understood Mr Bs rationale for his calculation of the financial loss but didnt think 
he could hold YBS responsible for this.
Mr B asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. He accepted that there was 
some grey area in the calculation of the loss which is why he said he had agreed to accept a 
lower loss figure of £500. He didnt think it fair that YBS paid nothing for the financial loss.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
YBS accepted it had made a mistake. We would expect it to take steps to put Mr B 
back in the position he would have been had the mistake not been made and, if 
appropriate, pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been 
caused. YBS returned the excess funds and made an interest adjustment to reflect 
the situation had the excess funds not been transferred. I found this put Mr Bs Cash 
ISA account back in the position it would have been had the mistake not been made.
The process of rectifying the mistake took time (funds transferred on 8 February and 
excess funds returned on 12 March). While Mr B was told the situation on his 
account would be rectified I understood that this issue caused him distress and 
inconvenience as there wasnt a clear timescale provided. YBS paid Mr B £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused, and I thought this was reasonable.
Mr B said he lost out financially by not being able to make his share purchases on 
receipt of the funds to his Share ISA account. YBS noted that the funds would have 
been in Mr Bs ISA Share account with his bank at the latest on 15 February and so 
Mr B could have used £10,000 of the transferred amount to make his share purchase 
at that time. However, YBS contact notes showed that on 22 February Mr B was told 
that the whole amount of the transfer was to be returned to his YBS account and then 
the £10,000 re-issued. So, I thought it reasonable that Mr B considered the funds 
unavailable as they may have still been recalled. I didnt find evidence that he was 
then told that only the excess funds would be returned and so I accepted that he 
wasnt in a position to make the £10,000 of share purchases until the issue had been 
resolved on 12 March.
Mr B was transferring funds from a Cash ISA at YBS to a Share ISA at another bank. 
I thought it reasonable to accept that he was making the transfer in order to purchase 
shares and this was supported by the statements for this account which showed a 
small amount in cash and the rest in shares.
Mr B said that he intended to invest the £10,000 in his portfolio and provided 
valuations from 18 February and 4 March 2021 showing a rise in the value of the 
portfolio. I noted that it could be argued as to whether this was a reasonably 
foreseeable loss. It was possible Mr B would have invested in a subset of the 
portfolio that may not have risen in value and the dates of the valuations didnt 
exactly match the dates of when the funds were available. Because of this I didnt 
find I could determine the loss with any certainty. 
But, based on the information provided, I found it more likely than not that Mr B would 
have invested the £10,000 once the cheque had cleared had this issue not arisen 
and based on the information it was more likely than not this would have given him 
an opportunity to increase the value of his portfolio. Because of this I thought 
compensation of a further £500 was reasonable in this case to reflect Mr Bs 
disappointment and loss of opportunity arising from this issue.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed. I think 
YBS should pay Mr B an additional £500 compensation to reflect the disappointment and 
loss of opportunity arising from his funds not being available for him to invest as he wished 
due to the mistake made when the funds were transferred and the time taken to resolve this.  Putting things right
YBS should pay Mr B an additional £500 compensation (additional to the £300 already paid) 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society should take the action set out above, as it 
has agreed, in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman