DRN-3643730
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost to an investment 
scammer. 
Mr M is represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
him alone in this decision. 
What happened
Mr M has explained that in 2021, he made the following payments to SPX Markets (via 
S/MT5APPS):
Transaction 
number Date Amount (£)
1 09 February 2021 £219.85
2 15 February 2021 £879.27
3 15 February 2021 £615.49
4 22 March 2021 £3,600
Total £5,314.61
When Mr M subsequently got in touch with Lloyds to explain hed been scammed, Lloyds 
recovered the fourth payment. This payment was made as an international payment from Mr 
Ms Lloyds current account and Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank who returned the 
payment in full on 13 October 2021. Lloyds declined to refund payments one to three as 
these were made using Mr Ms Lloyds credit card and it had no way of recovering it. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr M referred his complaint about Lloyds to this service. As he 
disagreed with our investigators view, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached largely the same conclusions as that of our investigator and Ill explain why.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anything 
further until Mr M notified it of the scam. Then, because these were credit card payments, 
the only avenue for potential recovery of the payments would have been through the 
chargeback scheme.
Our service has clarified the position with Mastercard themselves and theyve confirmed 
there are very limited options for payments that have gone to any type of investment. The 
only possible avenue for success is if funds arent credited from the card to the investment 
account. That isnt the argument here as Mr M says he saw his funds and credits on his 
trading account. His complaint is that he was the victim of a scam and the scenario he found 
himself in gave no rise to any valid Mastercard chargeback dispute grounds. So I dont think 
these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Mr M hasnt raised a section 75 claim with Lloyds in respect of his credit card payments, so I 
wont consider that as part of this decision. Should he wish to do so, he should contact 
Lloyds directly.  
Prevention
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Lloyds reasonably ought 
to have prevented some or all of Mr Ms payments to S/MT5APPS in the first place  
therefore preventing his loss or part of it.
Its common ground that Mr M authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by the scammer into instructing Lloyds to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Mr M was tricked. So although he didnt intend the 
money to go to a scammer, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive first thought about whether Lloyds could have identified that Mr M was paying a potential 
scammer but Ive noted that he didnt pay SPX Markets directly and instead paid 
S/MT5APPS. So, I dont think the payee on the face of it, should have caused Lloyds any 
particular concern.  
Ive therefore thought about whether Lloyds should have suspected Mr M could be falling 
victim to a potential fraud or scam, based on any significant change in the normal pattern of 
his spending. 
I appreciate what Mr M has said but I dont agree the payments here were sufficiently 
unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to reasonably say Lloyds shouldnt have allowed the 
payments through without first getting in touch with Mr M to check everything was in order. I 
say this because, credit card accounts are commonly used for one-off larger payments and 
having checked Mr Ms statements, he didnt regularly use his credit card account enough 
for Lloyds to determine what normal patterns and account usage looked like for him. So 
when the payments in dispute were paid, I dont think Lloyds ought to have been concerned because they werent for particularly large amounts and Mr M was still well within his credit 
card limit after all the payments were processed. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr M and he will understandably feel 
aggrieved about his loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold 
Lloyds liable for this.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman