DRN-3923421
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain Covea Insurance plc has unfairly handled a claim theyve made 
on their buildings insurance policy 
What happened
Miss M has led the complaint with this Service so Ive mainly referred to her throughout. 
References to Miss M and Covea include respective representatives and agents unless 
specified otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Miss M owns a property insured under an insurance policy underwritten by Covea. 
There was a toilet blockage and subsequent sewage leak into the cellar of the 
property so Miss M reported this to Covea to make a claim on the policy. 
Covea appointed a specialist to investigate and it found problems with drains at the 
property were the cause of the release of sewage waste. Covea accepted the claim 
under the accidental damage part of the policy.
Coveas agent made two attempts at fixing the problem but it wasnt until the third 
visit that it was resolved. After this, Miss M said water had still flowed into the cellar 
and she said this only happened following problems with the drains and the work 
undertaken by Covea.
Miss M was unhappy with how the claim was handled and the extent of the work 
covered under the policy so she made a number of complaints to Covea. It issued 
two final responses in September 2021 and November 2021 in which it detailed its 
position on Miss Ms complaints. 
oIt accepted the claims process hadnt been explained clearly and it could 
have responded more quickly to Miss Ms concerns. It paid £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused.
oIt said there was no evidence to show the current ingress was connected to 
the previously leaking pipes or the repair work it had undertaken.
oIt said there was evidence to suggest water ingress had happened in the past 
and an attempt to instal some kind of render had been undertaken but this 
was wearing away.  It offered to cap a pipe which it believed may have 
previously been used to drain away water from the cellar.
oIt declined to assist with the cost of reinforcing the damp proofing of the cellar 
as it considered this betterment and it wasnt covered by the policy.
oIt declined to assist with the cost of a replacement driveway as it said this was 
already in a poor state of repair before its involvement as a result of gradual 
movement. 
oIt did agree to cover the cost of some patch repairs to the driveway.
oIt acknowledged the repairs should have been completed correctly quicker 
than they were and apologised Miss Ms concerns werent treated as urgently 
as they should have been. It offered an additional £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused but this was rejected by Miss M.
Miss M wasnt happy with Coveas response and raised a complaint with this 
Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence and initially upheld Miss Ms 
complaint. But following further comments from Coveas civil engineer the 
Investigator didnt think Covea needed to do anymore with regards the current water 
ingress.  Another Investigator considered the aspect of the damage to the driveway 
but didnt think Covea was responsible for this. 
Miss M wasnt happy with this and asked an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
claim is covered by the policy. Im unlikely to tell an insurer to do something thats not 
covered under the policy terms. Ill be reviewing the evidence in light of this while keeping in 
mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Covea instructing its own contractor
In line with what Ive said above, policyholders are expected to show their claim is 
likely covered by the policy. In this case, Covea asked Miss M to do this and so she 
instructed a damp proofing contractor and as a consequence of the report she had 
undertaken, Covea accepted the claim was one it would consider under the policy 
terms.
Once a claim has been accepted, generally, insurers expect to be able to inspect 
damage to assess the extent of their liability and to decide on the most appropriate 
way to address the cause and undertake repairs. They do this by appointing their 
own specialists to undertake an inspection of the site and this isnt unreasonable.
Im satisfied Covea acted reasonably and in line with good industry practice in 
instructing its own expert to carry out this inspection.
The repeated visits
The inspection concluded defective drains were the cause of the problem. Coveas 
agents made three attempts at repairing the problem over the following two months. 
During the course of these attempts a number of additional issues were identified 
which required the return visits.
Raw sewage continued to leak into the cellar during this time. Covea did arrange for 
cleaning and sanitation of the cellar after each repair attempt was undertaken but I 
acknowledge this was still very stressful for Miss M. I note Covea offered Miss M 
alternative accommodation at this time in recognition of the nature of the ongoing 
problems but she declined this saying she just wanted the problem fixed as quickly 
as possible.Covea acknowledges it should have handled this part of the claim better than it did. 
Having carefully considered the evidence I agree. I can see there were times when 
there was confusion and miscommunication between Covea and its agents and I 
think this contributed to delays. And ideally, the problem would have been resolved 
on the first attempt rather than requiring multiple return visits by Coveas contractors.
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding on the compensation Covea should pay 
Miss M.
The remaining water/damp proofing
Water continued to enter the cellar even after Covea completed the remedial work to 
the drains and Miss M believes this was caused by Coveas agents.
Coveas agents tested the water and confirmed it wasnt from the drains and these 
had been satisfactorily repaired. It was likely the ingress was as a result of an 
ongoing ground water problem.
Miss M instructed a damp-proof contractor to consider the damage. He provided a 
report with a brief explanation of what he considered the cause of the problem. He 
said it was likely the composition of the ground had changed due to water leaking 
from the damaged drains leading to water bearing pressure on walls during rainfall, 
resulting in ingress in the cellar. He recommended remedial work based on his 
findings.
Coveas civil engineer, disagreed with these conclusions and pointed out the damp 
proof contractors werent experts in soil behaviours and geotechnics. Instead, he 
concluded the continuing water ingress was due to the lack of adequate tanking and 
the presence of an uncapped pipe in the cellar. 
On balance, I find the opinion of the professionally qualified civil engineer to be more 
persuasive and Im satisfied it was fair for Covea to rely on his opinion in saying the 
ongoing water ingress was unrelated to the claim for the damaged pipes and likely 
pre-existing. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
Covea to pay for upgraded tanking in the cellar. 
 I note it has offered to cap off the pipe in the cellar and this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The damaged driveway 
Coveas drainage expert was of the view the driveway had been settling in various 
areas over time and this ground movement was the cause of accidental damage to 
the drains which had caused the original problems.
It highlighted pictures available on the internet  which I have independently found  
which show the driveway has been in a poor state of repair and deteriorating over a 
period of time. Ive not been given enough evidence to persuade me the overall 
current state of the driveway is a result of work undertaken by Coveas agents or the 
accidental damage claim.
Coveas agent said patch repairs to the driveway could be undertaken and offered to 
pay Miss M £720 towards this. It confirmed this agreement in its final response but 
its not clear to me whether this has already been paid. Additionally, Coveas 
engineer made the offer of an additional £250 towards this but, again, its not clear if Covea made  or paid  this offer to Miss M.
Overall, bearing in mind what Ive said above, I consider these payments fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Damage to the fencing
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me the damage to the fencing was 
caused by the damaged drains but I note Covea has said it will review its stance on 
this on receipt of further evidence from Miss M which Im satisfied is fair in the 
circumstances.
Conclusions 
For the reasons Ive explained I dont think Covea needs to undertake any further remedial 
work but I do think it could  and should  have provided better service. I can understand 
why the delays in rectifying the initial problem were distressing for Miss M given the 
conditions she describes with raw sewage in the basement for longer than it needed to be 
while Covea found a solution to the problem.
Ive thought about this very carefully, and taking everything Ive said above into account, I 
think the additional £250 Covea has offered to pay Miss M for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused as a result of its poor claims handling and delays (on top of the 
£200 its already paid) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Additionally, if it hasnt yet paid Miss M the amounts for the patch repairs to the driveway 
(£720 and £250) it should now do so. These sums combined total £1,220.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc must pay Miss M the 
following amounts if it hasnt already done so:
- £250 in compensation, and
- £970 for costs related to driveway patch repairs.
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr M and Miss M accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman