DRN-3502236
The complaint
A complains that Fleet Mortgages Ltd (Fleet) unfairly declined its request for a second covid 
related mortgage payment deferral.
What happened
In 2018, A took a buy-to-let mortgage with Fleet for approximately £600,000, on an interest 
only basis, for a term of 15 years. The mortgage offer dated 3 September 2018 confirms that 
the mortgage was not a regulated mortgage contract under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) regulatory regime.
In March 2020 the FCA announced measures aimed to help mortgage borrowers during the 
covid pandemic. One of these measures was to be able to take a mortgage payment 
deferral, initially for up to three months, without it impacting the borrowers credit history.
A requested a payment deferral in April 2020 and Fleet allowed three months from               
1 May 2020. Towards the end of the payment deferral, A requested that the payments it had 
missed were capitalised and Fleet agreed to that request.
A requested another payment deferral in November 2020. By this point the FCA had 
amended its guidance to allow borrowers up to six months worth of payment deferrals. But 
Fleet declined that request, saying it no longer offered payment deferrals to limited 
companies. So, A complained to Fleet.
In its final response letter sent in December 2020, Fleet said it doesnt think the guidance 
given to lenders to assist customers adversely affected by the covid pandemic applies to 
limited companies. And there are other support measures available from the Government for 
businesses.
Dissatisfied with Fleets response, A asked us to look into its complaint. It says it wanted 
help because its tenants could not pay their rent. And it pointed out that, the cost of the 
payment deferral  the deferral of their contractual monthly payments  would ultimately be 
borne by A, not Fleet.  
Our investigator found that, despite Fleets opinion that the FCAs covid guidance didnt 
apply in the circumstances, it was reasonable to expect it to follow good industry practice at 
the time. She thought Fleet should have allowed A a second payment deferral. However, 
she didnt think it was in As best interests for Fleet to apply the payment deferral 
retrospectively, given that A had managed to make all the payments during the time the 
payment deferral would have applied. But she did think a payment for the inconvenience 
caused to A was appropriate because of the impact on As cashflow at the time. So, she 
asked Fleet to pay A £150 in that regard.
Neither party agreed. A said the £150 was not of significant benefit to it and it wanted Fleet 
to apply a payment deferral to its account as a point of principle. 
Fleet said that the inconvenience suffered was as a result of A not agreeing with its process 
for accepting a payment deferral request. And A making its mortgage payments at that time 
shows the payment deferral wasnt truly needed.
As neither party agreed with our investigator, As complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide As complaint, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Fleet to decline 
As request for a second covid payment deferral, considering all the circumstances that are 
relevant here.
After issuing the guidance referred to in the above section of my decision, the FCA updated 
its guidance to lenders several times to reflect the developing covid related circumstances as 
the pandemic continued. Ive carefully considered the version applicable when A requested a 
second payment deferral. The FCAs guidance refers to both unregulated agreements and 
lenders that arent regulated under the Financial Services and Markets Act. 
Fleet says it didnt have to adopt the FCAs covid guidance because it is only regulated by 
the FCA for anti-money laundering purposes. And, when Government support grants and 
other support was available for limited companies, it stopped offering payment deferrals to 
limited companies.
Ive thought carefully about Fleets comments in relation to the FCA guidance. And Im 
mindful of the fact that while Fleet isnt regulated by the FCA in relation to mortgage lending 
it does fall under the jurisdiction of this service, albeit on a voluntary basis. We consider 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis  that means what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable taking all relevant circumstances into account, not just the law or the guidance of 
the regulator. We do however consider relevant regulation as well as best industry practice 
at the time. I think the FCA guidance in this case was intended as guidance for all mortgage 
lenders, because of the guidances reference to professional diligence. I also think that the 
general good practices of the industry  those adopted by the majority of mortgage lenders  
have a significant impact on what may be considered fair and reasonable. So, Ive also 
thought about what I think the majority of mortgage lenders would have done in similar 
circumstances when deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Despite being a limited company, A has explained that it is a husband and wife partnership, 
deriving all its income from property letting. It says that means it is treated as a limited 
company deriving its income from investments so didnt qualify for the Government support 
Fleet has referred to. Its also explained to us the difficulty it has had with specific tenants.
Fleet appears to have applied a blanket policy when declining As request. I havent seen 
that it sought to engage with A to understand its circumstances. I think it shouldve done so 
to truly understand As situation at the time. That is something the FCAs guidance says it 
should do and something I would expect all mortgage lenders to have done in the 
circumstances as a matter of best practice. Having gained an understanding of As needs, I 
would expect most mortgage lenders to have accepted a request for a second mortgage 
payment deferral. Its clear they were being impacted by the pandemic and, whilst they may 
have made arrangements to maintain the payments, this doesnt mean it was easy for them 
or that A didnt have to make alternative arrangements for other payments. As Fleet didnt engage with A and so didnt consider its individual circumstances, I dont think Fleet acted 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with As request.  
Putting things right
I know A wants Fleet to retrospectively apply a payment deferral to its mortgage account  it 
has said thats now a matter of principle. And its said that a payment in respect of the 
inconvenience caused isnt much use. However, my role isnt to award redress based on 
what a consumer wants. Rather, I must think impartially about what is appropriate given the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Ive thought about what retrospectively applying a payment deferral would achieve, given 
that A did manage to make the payments in question. It would increase the loan balance 
from that point in time by the payment deferral that would have applied and therefore also 
increase the interest-bearing balance from that time. Put simply, this would mean that As 
mortgage balance would increase, and they wouldnt have made payments to cover the 
additional payments this would have attracted since. Therefore, it doesnt seem like it would 
be in the best interests of A, despite it wanting that outcome as a point of principle. So, Ill 
not direct Fleet to do that.
I think A did suffer some inconvenience due to it having to manage its cashflow in a way it 
wouldnt have otherwise had to. So, I think a payment in recognition of that is appropriate 
here. But because A is an entity  despite its make up  I think its inconvenience should 
have been limited to additional challenges in managing its business, rather than the potential 
distress caused to the directors of A as they arent eligible customers here. So, I cant 
consider the impact on them. I think a payment of £150 in that regard is appropriate here.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold As complaint about Fleet Mortgages Ltd and it should pay A £150 for 
the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman