DRN-2397006
The complaint
Miss C complains about Claim Hunters Limited (CHL) and the settlement fee they have 
charged her for work she feels they completed without her authority to do so.
What happened
On 23 August 2019, Miss C says she submitted an enquiry to CHL about making claims for 
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on her behalf. But, crucially, she didnt think 
she authorised them to pursue those claims or signed documents to allow them to do so.
In June 2020, Miss C received an invoice from CHL, asking her to pay their settlement fee 
for a successful PPI refund she received from Lender L. Miss C was unhappy with this, so 
she raised a complaint.
Miss C complained that CHL had pursued a claim against Lender L without her consent. She 
said she submitted an enquiry only and didnt instruct them to do anything more. She also 
thought the signature used on the Letter of Authority (LOA) submitted to Lender L was 
forged as it wasnt hers, and she hadnt signed that document. So, she wanted CHL to waive 
the fee they were charging. Miss C also made CHL aware shed contact the police regarding 
her issue with the signature.
CHL responded and didnt agree. They explained when Miss C submitted her enquiry 
through a separate online website, she wouldve needed to provide a signature and agree to 
the terms and conditions of the agreement for them to receive the details of the claims. And 
they explained they contacted her during the claims process with updates and received no 
queries to their involvement. They thought that, as the claim was upheld following their 
submission, it was reasonable for them to invoice her for their settlement fee. So, they didnt 
offer to do anything more. Miss C remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised Miss Cs 
concerns about the signature used on the LOA that was submitted. But she explained we 
didnt have the expertise or the jurisdiction to decide on whether the signature was hers. But 
she explained she could consider whether CHL had acted fairly when submitting the claim, 
and invoicing Miss C for the settlement fee. And she thought they had. 
She explained she thought Miss C wouldve needed to agree to the terms and conditions of 
the agreement when submitting her enquiry. And she explained CHL didnt offer a Free PPI 
Check that other businesses may have done. So, by submitting claim details to CHL, she 
thought Miss C was instructing them to act on her behalf. And she explained shed seen 
evidence to show Lender L had issued a refund based on the application CHL submitted. 
So, she thought CHL acted fairly when invoicing for their settlement fee and didnt think it 
would be fair to ask them to waive it.
Miss C didnt agree and maintained she didnt provide CHL authority to actively pursue the 
claims. As Miss C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss C. I dont doubt Miss C 
submitted her details online assuming she was making an enquiry to CHL about submitting 
claims on her behalf. Im aware this was done on an independent website which offered 
entrance into prize draws for information being completed. So, I can understand her 
frustration at receiving an invoice for a settlement fee that she wouldnt have expected. But 
for me to say the fee shouldnt be payable, Id need to be satisfied CHL had received no 
instruction from Miss C to proceed with the claim. Or alternatively, that the work they 
completed was of no value to the successful refund she received. And in this instance, I 
dont think thats the case.
Im aware Miss C had raised concerns about the signature present on the LOA CHL 
submitted to Lender L. She has said the signature was forged. But Im unable to decide upon 
the validity of the signature present on the LOA as I dont have the necessary expertise to do 
this. What I can consider is what I think is most likely to have happened and whether I think 
CHL had enough information to suggest Miss C had provided them with authority to purse 
the claims on her behalf. 
CHL have explained for the independent website to provide them details of Miss Cs claims, 
she wouldve need to agree to the terms and conditions of the agreement and provide an 
electronic signature confirming as such. As the signature provided was electronic, I wouldnt 
expect the signature to resemble a signature Miss C used regularly. So, I can understand 
why Miss C would query this.
But I have seen that CHL were provided with the documents necessary to pursue the claim 
by the independent website. This LOAs contained an electronic signature and a date stamp 
of the 23 August 2019, the same day Miss C completed the form believing it was an enquiry. 
So, I think its most likely that Miss C did follow the steps needed to complete the online 
form. And by doing so, she agree to the terms and conditions. From the screenshot Miss C 
provided, I can see there was a tick box to select to say she confirmed to the terms of the 
agreement. So, while I dont think Miss C necessarily knew she was authorising CHL to 
submit the claims, I think its most likely that she did.
And I dont think CHL wouldve been aware of Miss Cs confusion when they received the 
instruction. I can see they submitted the claims on her behalf before the PPI deadline and I 
think they did this in good faith based on the information they received. And I can see they 
contacted Miss C to make her aware of the actions they were taking. Had Miss C not 
intended to instruct CHL to submit the claims, Id have expected her to have contacted CHL 
to dispute their involvement and cancel the agreement she entered into. I cant see that she 
did this. Im aware Miss C says she ignored correspondence from CHL without reading it as 
she assumed it was them trying to engage her into using their services. But I cant say this 
means CHL shouldve known she didnt want them to continue to act on her behalf.
Ive also seen Lender L wrote to Miss C to update her on the progression of her claim. Had 
Miss C not intended to use CHL to submit her claim, I wouldve expected her to query why 
Lender L was contacting her about a claim as I cant see any evidence to suggest she made a claim to Lender L herself independently. Again, I cant see any evidence to show she did 
so. 
Following this, when Lender L wrote to Miss C to uphold her claim and award a PPI refund, 
they explained within the letter that a copy had also been sent to CHL. And they also 
provided a copy of this offer letter to CHL. This satisfies me that the refund was awarded 
based on the claim submission CHL made. And because of this, I think CHL were 
reasonable to charge a settlement fee as the refund resulted from the work they completed.
So, although I can appreciate Miss C wasnt fully aware shed entered into an agreement 
with CHL when submitting the form through the independent website, I dont think this was 
the fault of CHL. And so, I dont think this means CHL shouldnt charge their settlement fee. 
Im satisfied that, for CHL to have received the claim details, Miss C wouldve need to 
complete documents and provide a signature. And by doing this, I think she authorised CHL 
to submit the claims on her behalf. I dont think CHL had any way of knowing this wasnt 
Miss Cs intention. And as Miss C didnt query this with either CHL or Lender L when they 
explained a claim had been received, it meant CHL continued to work with Lender L to 
secure a refund on Miss Cs behalf. This work then led to a successful refund. So, I think 
CHL are entitled to charge a settlement fee, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. And because of this, I cant say theyve acted unfairly, or that they need to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about Claim Hunters Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman