DRN-3226432
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE cancelled his pet insurance policy without 
notice.
What happened
Mr N had a pet insurance policy with Great Lakes. But the policy was cancelled because of 
payment issues. And Mr N said Great Lakes never got in touch so he could sort it out. 
Although Great Lakes said itd sent numerous emails hed never received them. So he wants 
the pet insurance policy reinstated.
Great Lakes said it was sorry to hear Mr N was upset his policy had been cancelled. The 
direct debit mandate had been stopped by Mr Ns bank. And it understood the account had 
been closed. 
Great Lakes said it was Mr Ns responsibility to make sure he continued to pay the monthly 
premiums. Itd sent emails to Mr N about the payment issues. And its records showed theyd 
been delivered successfully. So Great Lakes felt itd dealt with the matter fairly.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. 
Our investigator could see emails had been sent to Mr N after his direct debit had been 
cancelled. They appeared to have been delivered but there was no record theyd been 
opened. But our investigator noted Mr N had received emails from Great Lakes before 
without any issue. 
Our investigator said payment for the policy was Mr Ns responsibility. He was aware his 
bank account had been closed. So he ought reasonably to have known that payment 
wouldnt be made and that hed need to contact all the companies he paid by direct debit. 
But Mr N hadnt done so until after Great Lakes had cancelled the policy. So our investigator 
didnt feel Great Lakes had done anything wrong. And he wouldnt be upholding Mr Ns 
complaint. 
Mr N didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
How was he supposed to know about the emails not bouncing back? Great Lakes couldve 
tried to contact him in other ways.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr N has been experiencing. Hes upset that his pet 
insurance policy was cancelled by Great Lakes after the monthly direct debit payment wasnt 
made. So Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened to see if Great Lakes has 
treated Mr N fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy.
I understand Mr Ns bank account had closed towards the end of July 2021. And as a result 
the payment due a few weeks later was cancelled by the bank. Great Lakes said when a 
payment mandate was cancelled at the bank that normally demonstrated a customers 
intention to end their cover. It showed they didnt intend to make any further payments. 
Great Lakes said it followed its normal procedure in such circumstances and emailed Mr N 
to give 14 days notice in case itd been done by mistake and he wished to continue his 
cover. But Great Lakes hadnt heard from Mr N so the policy had been cancelled. And hed 
only got in touch afterwards.
I know Mr N feels Great Lakes couldve done more to let him know his monthly payment 
hadnt been received. He said itd told him it was experiencing email problems and hed had 
to send the same message about eight times before Great Lakes received it.
Great Lakes has responded that it wasnt aware of any email issues. And in any event Mr N 
was aware his bank account had been closed and any regular payments wouldnt be made 
unless he updated the payment details. 
Ive looked at everything Mr N and Great Lakes have said. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Great Lakes has treated Mr N any differently to how it wouldve treated any other 
customer in the same circumstances. It emailed to say a payment for the policy had been 
missed. And it gave fourteen days notice that the policy would be cancelled if it didnt hear 
from Mr N.
I appreciate how frustrating this mustve been for Mr N. But Ive seen the information 
provided by Great Lakes to show it successfully delivered email messages about the direct 
debit and policy cancellations to Mr Ns email address.
Even if there were communication difficulties it was still Mr Ns responsibility to get in touch 
with any business hed set up automated payments to. He needed to let them know his 
circumstances had changed. And he needed to make manual payments if he wasnt able to 
set up direct debits in time. I cant hold Great Lakes responsible for the non-payment of 
Mr Ns monthly premium. That wouldnt be fair.
Mr N didnt get in touch with Great Lakes until after itd cancelled the pet insurance policy. 
And I cant say Great Lakes acted unreasonably in doing so. Mr N was no longer making 
payments towards his policy cover. And he hadnt been in touch to explain why. 
Based on what Ive seen I cant say Great Lakes has treated Mr N unfairly or made any 
mistakes. It acted within the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. I realise Mr N 
will be disappointed with this outcome. But I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman