DRN-2352057
The complaint
Ms H complains that a car she took on hire purchase from FCE Bank Plc was described as 
new but was in fact 15 months old when she collected it. 
What happened
In October 2018 Ms H took out a hire purchase agreement with FCE Bank for a new car. 
The dealers invoice described the car as new and the delivery date, invoice date, date of 
first registration and date of the finance agreement were all the same. 
Around August 2019  that is, some ten months after Ms H acquired the car  an oil warning 
light came on. The dealership arranged an oil change at no cost to Ms H. It also came to 
light that the car had been built in 2017, around 15 months before Ms H took delivery of it. 
Ms H expressed concern that the car had therefore been kept in storage for many months 
and wasnt therefore new at all. She said that there had been green algae on the door sills 
when she collected it. 
Ms H also mentioned a previous experience when moisture had been absorbed by brake 
fluid, causing the brakes to lock; she was concerned this might be an issue with this car. 
Initially the dealership said the brake fluid was not due to be changed until the 24-month 
service, but it agreed to get it changed in any event. 
Ms H didnt think this went far enough and remained concerned that her car was not new at 
delivery, as she had been led to believe it was. She referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered it. He concluded however that the dealership had been 
right to describe the car as new. That description referred to the date of first registration and 
was the date from which would generally be used when assessing a cars age. Ms H didnt 
agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst most of Ms Hs dealings were with the dealership, FCE Bank  as the creditor under 
the hire purchase agreement  is responsible to Ms H for ensuring the car complies with the 
relevant parts of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. That act requires, amongst other things, 
that car is as described. In this case the car was described as new. The issue I must 
consider therefore is whether it was fair to describe it in that way. 
I accept that the car was manufactured some 15 months before it was delivered to Ms H. It 
seems likely that it spent at least some of that time in the open  as evidenced by Ms Hs 
observations of algae on the door seals. I dont believe however that this means the car 
could not properly be described as new. I make the following observations:
Most cars  indeed, most manufactured goods  are built or assembled some time 
before delivery to a customer. They may spend time being shipped, stored and on 
display in a showroom or store. 
Generally, goods are described as new if they havent been previously used, sold or 
leased. 
A cars age is usually taken from the date of its first registration, not the date of its 
completion at a factory. 
A buyer of a used car will check its age by reference to that date. Theres no reason to 
think the value of Ms Hs car will be assessed any differently.
Service intervals and the manufacturers warranty are measured from the date of first 
registration. 
It doesnt appear that there had been any change in the cars specification. That is, Ms 
Hs car had all the same features of a car that had been built in October 2018. 
The car had not been registered to a previous owner  even the dealership. 
The invoice did not record any mileage, so it appears the mileage when Ms H took 
delivery of the car was zero or, at most, delivery mileage. 
For these reasons, I dont believe it was inaccurate to describe the car as new. 
Ms H also raised concerns  linked to the time since the cars manufacture  about the oil 
and brake fluid. They have been changed at no cost to her, however, so I dont need to 
comment further on them. Ms H has also mentioned seeing algae on the door seals when 
she took delivery of the car. She didnt mention this at the time, but in my view it is, at most, 
evidence that the car was stored or displayed in the open at some point before delivery. I 
have however explained why I dont believe that means its description was inaccurate.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require FCE Bank Plc to do anything 
further to resolve Ms Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman