DRN-2884560
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
asked him to pay to refurbish a car he had been financing through them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr S disputes the £1442.50 MBFS have charged him to replace a door. He says that 
damage could have been repaired for £260; the same charge MBFS have levied for 
other dents on the car. I dont think, on the evidence I have, that MBFS have been 
fair levying a charge of £1442.50. I say that because:
oThe BVRLA guidelines say that dents in excess of 15mm are chargeable. I 
agree that the dent is chargeable but, as the charge MBFS are levying is so 
high, I would expect them to provide some evidence to us to support their 
argument that the door needed to be replaced, rather than repaired. 
oMBFS have explained that they shouldnt have to lose out and reduce the 
charge. Ive not seen evidence that they have lost out. I would expect them to 
have provided details of the repair that was completed or to explain that the 
car was sold at auction for an equivalent loss. But theyve not provided that 
information and I dont think its clear theyve therefore lost out.
oMBFS have said their return standards dont allow a repair that is this 
extensive. Their standards say Body and Paint: There will be no charge for 
light damage. The most severe dents will be repaired as cost effectively as 
possible, but damage that has penetrated the base coat will be charged, Ive 
not seen a mention of a need to replace the body panel or an explanation as 
to why replacement is more cost effective. So, I dont think the charge has 
been shown to be fair.
For those reasons I dont think the £1442.50 that MBFS charged to replace the door is a fair 
charge.  
Putting things right
MBFS have charged £260 to repair other panel dents on this car and I think it would 
therefore be fair, in these circumstances, for them to charge £260 for the dent to the left-
hand rear door. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to amend the refurbishment charge for the left-hand rear door to £260.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman