DRN-2514673
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that ClearBank Limited did not accept an international 
payment into its account resulting in the loss of a contract.
What happened
P has an account arranged through ClearBank and which is delivered by a named third 
party. P complains that a payment from a client based abroad in September 2020 was not 
credited to its account. But that a similar payment earlier that month had been. This meant 
the client cancelled the contract.
ClearBank said that it did not make a mistake. The initial payment had been received in 
sterling as it had been passed through an intermediary bank. The second payment had not 
been and was received in US Dollars. It was not able to apply such a payment to the 
account and it had been rejected and returned. ClearBank accepted that it had not explained 
things as well as it could have done and offered to pay P £50 and increased this to £100 as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator did not recommend that it do anything more. She said that ClearBank did 
not offer an international payment service and that P would have needed to use another 
business to receive the payment and then send it on. She understood the impact for P but 
said that ClearBank had not made a mistake.
P did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The director said that this was not 
a fair decision and he did not understand why the first payment had been received. He said 
he intended to pursue this matter in court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that the evidence Ive seen is that the account held by P could only receive 
payments in sterling. This is set out on the website of the third-party provider of the account. 
International payments from other countries and which currently do not include America can 
be received if an International Currency Account is held. 
The first payment was sent through an intermediary bank as set out in the final response 
letter. From what Ive seen there was still no guarantee that a payment originating in this way 
would be credited as it was still technically an international payment. But P had the benefit of 
the funds. That clearly made it confusing when another payment from the client was 
rejected. And thats because this was presented in US Dollars.
P has provided background information supporting the impact that this had on the contract 
with its client. Im sorry to hear about this but ClearBank did not make a mistake and I dont 
have a basis to ask it to do more than it has already offered to as a gesture of goodwill.
If P does not accept my decision it is free to pursue this matter in court subject to any 
relevant time limits as it has indicated it might do.
My final decision
ClearBank has offered to pay P £100. I think thats fair in the circumstances and my decision 
is that that ClearBank Limited should pay P £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman