DRN-2655079
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with EUI Limited trading as Admirals (Admiral) decision to decline cover for 
a travel insurance claim. Hes also concerned he was abroad without medical cover. He 
wants Admiral to honour the cover which he feels was in place.  
What happened
Mr H used a comparison website to take out travel insurance with Admiral.   
A few days into his holiday, Mr H called Admiral to say his phone had been stolen. Admiral 
noted Mr H had taken out the policy to start the day after he arrived at his destination so they 
said his policy was void. Mr H raised a complaint and explained it wasnt made clear when 
he took out the policy that the period of cover starts when he leaves home. Admiral said they 
cant offer Mr H a policy now as their policy doesnt allow for one to be taken while a 
customer is already abroad.   
Admiral responded to Mr Hs complaint and noted that hed taken out the policy through a 
comparison website on 25 July 2019 ready for the cover to start the following day. They 
explained that it was their understanding that the trip started on 25 July. They explained that, 
as Mr H was already at his destination when the cover started, it meant the policy wasnt 
valid as he wasnt in the UK at the time. Admiral arranged for the policy to be cancelled from 
26 July and explained they would be refunding £7.12 to Mr H.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and Admiral on 2 February 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Theres no dispute that Mr H did provide incorrect information when taking out the 
policy. Ive looked at the Guide to your Admiral Travel Insurance cover booklet 
which sets out the terms and conditions of the policy. This defines a trip as A journey 
that begins and ends at your home during the period of insuranceoutside the 
UK. I can see that Mr H travelled out on 25 July. But, when asked online when hell 
be going on the trip, Mr H entered 26 July instead of 25 July. In line with the policys 
definition of the term trip, this shouldve been entered as 25 July.     
Theres been a misrepresentation here but an insurer will only be entitled to take 
action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So, Ive now 
considered whether the information provided by Mr H amounts to a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
The first point Ive considered is whether Mr H took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Mr H was asked when hes going on his trip. Theres no dispute 
here that he answered this as 26 July. During a call with Admiral, he says that he 
arrived late in the evening on 25 July so the policy was due to start a few hours later. 
Mr H says hes taken out policies before which dont cover an entire trip and 
Admirals website didnt make this clear. A consumer has to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. So, if Mr H wasnt certain what the question was 
asking, then the policy does make it clear what a trip is and how to answer the 
question. So, I dont think Mr H took reasonable care when answering the question 
about when he was going on his trip.
The next point Ive looked at is whether the misrepresentation actually made a 
difference to Admiral. In other words, if the information Admiral received had been 
accurate, would they have offered the insurance policy at all or only on different 
terms - including whether they wouldve charged more. Admiral havent provided any 
information which shows that they wouldnt have offered the policy if Mr H had 
entered the date as 25 July. Ive seen screenshots of Admirals online sales process 
and this doesnt show that, had Mr H entered the date as 25 July, the sales process 
wouldve stopped there and then  saying they would decline to offer cover in that 
situation.             
So, taking this information into account, I think Mr H has made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. I can see Admiral believe it was deliberate or reckless but nothing 
I have seen suggests that Mr H knew the information he provided was untrue or 
misleading or did not care whether it was untrue or misleading. During a call with 
Admiral, Mr H explains why he entered the date as 26 July and it appears this was 
down to not checking the terms and conditions. So, I think it was careless rather than 
it being deliberate or reckless.  
I believe Admiral wouldve still offered Mr H the policy had he entered the correct 
date. On this basis, I uphold the complaint as Admiral have acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in avoiding his policy. Admiral should consider Mr Hs claim relating to 
the theft of his phone. There is an additional point here which is relevant to the steps 
Admiral need to take to put things right. Its not clear from the information I have seen 
whether Admiral wouldve charged more for the premium given that it wouldve 
included an extra days cover. Our investigator asked Admiral to confirm whether the 
premium would still have been the same or if it would have been higher. The 
significance of this is that it determines how we would expect Admiral to deal with Mr 
Hs claim. If Admiral wouldve charged a higher premium, then they are entitled to 
reduce Mr Hs claim proportionately. Our investigator has asked Admiral for 
confirmation of this but they havent provided any evidence to show they wouldve 
charged a higher premium had Mr H entered the date of travel as 25 July. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to persuade me otherwise, Admiral should consider Mr Hs 
claim on the basis that hes paid his premium in full.  
Mr H was left upset and worried when being told his policy was void and realising 
that he was now abroad without cover. He asked if he could now take out cover and 
was told he couldnt because he was already abroad. I understand this is Admirals 
policy but Mr H shouldnt have found himself in this position as the policy shouldnt 
have been avoided. Mr H was already distressed, having gone through a traumatic 
experience with the theft of his phone. And, while Admiral arent responsible for this, 
their decision to avoid his policy at that time did cause Mr H further distress. Ive 
decided that its reasonable for Admiral to pay compensation of £50 to Mr H. I think it 
fairly recognises the upset and distress Mr H experienced when told, while on 
holiday, that his policy was void. I note Mr H is concerned he was abroad without 
medical cover but, apart from the worry and distress caused to him by the policy 
being avoided, I havent seen any evidence of the lack of medical cover having an 
additional impact on Mr H.   
Admiral should put Mr H back into the same position he wouldve been in had they 
not avoided his policy. So, as well as taking the steps above, Admiral will need to amend their records and any central databases to make sure any record of the 
avoidance is removed. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr H or Admiral, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Mr H has replied to say he accepts my decision. Admiral 
have responded to say they disagree with the provisional decision. They say the comparison 
website used by Mr H sets out, on the first page, a set of statements which a consumer must 
agree to. One of these statements is confirmation the consumer isnt attempting to cover a 
trip that has already started. They say there is also a disclaimer stating there will only be 
cover for trips that start from the UK. Admiral say this is a standard clause across the 
majority of travel insurers in the UK. Admiral also refer to a discussion their travel team had 
with Mr H during which, when he was asked why he hadnt insured himself from the date he 
left the UK, he answered he only wanted cover for the time he wanted cover.  
Admiral have confirmed that mobile phones are covered under the Personal belongings 
section of the policy schedule. They have also provided information which shows the cost of 
the premium, based on the dates given by Mr H, and paid by him was £7.12. And, had Mr H 
purchased the policy correctly by entering the start date as 25 July, then the premium 
wouldve been £8.26  so theres a difference of £1.14.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Admiral have provided a screenshot from the comparison website used by Mr H and I can 
see this does set out a number of statements. The screenshot shows, in order for a quote to 
be provided, a consumer must click a box to say they agree with the statements. One of the 
statements says not attempting to cover a trip that has already started. At the bottom of the 
page, there is a section which says Please note quotes are only available for residents of 
the UK and for trips which start from the UK. 
I have taken these points into account, but Im not persuaded this demonstrates that Mr Hs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. The screenshot makes reference to, and 
includes links to, the terms and conditions and also says a consumer can contact the 
comparison company if they dont understand any of the statements. I think the terms and 
conditions do make it clear what the definition of a trip is, and I believe, had Mr H contacted 
the comparison company at this point in the sale journey, they wouldve clarified this for him. 
That is why I believe Mr Hs misrepresentation was careless here rather than deliberate or 
reckless. The evidence shows there were opportunities during the whole sale journey for Mr 
H to seek clarity if he wasnt sure about any part of the policy. The fact that he didnt seek 
any clarity or overlooked sections referring to the trip starting from the UK, doesnt mean that 
he knew the information he was providing was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading. 
Ive also taken into account Admirals point about Mr Hs comment to their travel team. Im 
not persuaded this comment suggests Mr H sought to mislead Admiral and theres two 
reasons for this. The first relates to Mr Hs call to Admiral to discuss his claim. This is the first time Mr H is told his policy isnt valid so Im persuaded by his comments during this call. 
When asked by the call handler why he purchased the policy to start a day later, Mr H says 
I did it because I was travelling and I would be there very late in the evening, I think it was 
just in error. Later in the call, when the call handler explains the policy started while Mr H 
was already travelling so it was void, Mr H says it wasnt made clear at all on the website 
and again when the point is made about him entering the incorrect date, Mr H says I just did 
it quickly. The second reason is that the difference between the 11 days and 12 days cover 
is £1.14. While Mr H wont have known that at the time he took out the policy, its a 
reasonable assumption, based on the fact that the premium was £7.12, that an additional 
days cover wouldnt cost a significant amount. 
So, I dont think Mr H had any motive here to mislead Admiral, and Ive seen no evidence 
which suggests that was the case. So, I have carefully considered Admirals comments, but 
from the evidence I have seen, I think Mr H has made a qualifying misrepresentation which 
was careless and not deliberate or reckless. And, in view of this, I think Admiral have acted 
unfairly in avoiding the policy. Admiral should therefore consider Mr Hs claim.  
        
Admiral say the 12 days policy, which wouldve been taken out by Mr H had he entered the 
correct dates, wouldve cost £8.26. This means that Mr H paid 86% of what Admiral would 
have charged for 12 days. So, given that Admiral wouldve charged a higher premium, they 
are entitled to reduce Mr Hs claim proportionately.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Hs policy. So, they should 
consider his claim for the theft of his phone in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
And, should it be covered, they can reduce the claim proportionately given that Mr H paid a 
premium lower than it shouldve been. Admiral have refunded £7.12 to Mr H so, as this 
represents the premium Mr H paid, they can deduct this from any successful claim. They 
should also pay compensation to Mr H. I feel £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and reflects the upset and distress caused to Mr H. 
Admiral should also amend their records and any central databases to make sure any record 
of the avoidance is removed.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. EUI Limited trading as Admiral must:
Consider Mr Hs claim; 
Pay compensation to Mr H in the sum of £50; and 
Amend their records and any central databases to make sure any record of the 
avoidance is removed.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman