DRN-4124525
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc consider his account to be dormant. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr S received a letter from Co-op which explained they considered his 
account to have been dormant for more than 15 years and which explained what steps Mr S 
needed to take to reactivate the account. 
Mr S didnt feel that his account should be considered as being dormant because hed 
updated his passbook with accrued interest on several occasions and had also updated his 
address. So, he raised a complaint.
Co-op responded to Mr S and explained that the updating of a passbook and the changing of 
an address arent classified by them as transactions. Co-op also explained that they define a 
transaction as either a withdrawal and a credit, neither of which had taken place on the 
account for approximately 16 years and reiterated that because of this they considered the 
account to be dormant. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel the Co-op had acted 
unfairly towards Mr S in how theyd managed the situation. Mr S remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr S is unhappy that Co-op consider his account to be dormant because a customer-
initiated transaction hasnt taken place on the account for roughly 16 years. And Mr S is also 
unhappy that Co-op dont consider the updating of his passbook and his updating his 
address with them to be transactions on the account.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr S has referenced the Dormant Bank and Building 
Society Account Act 2008 (the Act) and notes that the Act doesnt define a transaction. But 
Im satisfied that in the absence of a specific definition, it would be for Co-op to define what 
they consider to be a transaction  which I note that they have done, the details of which 
have been explained to Mr S  and that it isnt Mr S to declare to Co-op what they should 
consider as a transaction. 
Mr S also refers specifically to Note 57 in the Act, which reads as follows (with my 
emphasis):
This section explains when an account will be regarded as dormant for the purposes 
of sections 1 and 2. In practice, as participation in the scheme is voluntary, 
institutions will have the flexibility to take into account other indications as to 
whether an account is genuinely dormant, in addition to meeting the 
requirements of this section. For example, correspondence from the customer or 
activity in relation to other accounts held with the same institution may be regarded 
as evidence that the customer is still active and that their account which would 
otherwise meet the definition of dormant should not be transferred to the scheme.
Mr S feels that the above section means that Co-op should consider the updating of his 
passbook and the updating of his address as being transactions. But Im satisfied the above 
section confirms that its at Co-ops decision and discretion as to whether they will do so.
Finally, Mr S feels that because he last updated his address with Co-op in 2021, they should 
take the information they obtained from him at that time as satisfying their present 
requirement for him to confirm his address with them, especially as Co-op are happy to write 
to him at his address about the dormancy issue. 
But Im satisfied that its for Co-op to set the processes they have for dormant accounts, 
including what they require from affected customers to reinstate their accounts. And Im also 
satisfied that Co-ops dormant account process and the steps theyve asked Mr S to follow to 
reinstate his account arent unfair or unreasonable, especially given that this process applies 
equally to all affected Co-op customers.
All which means that I dont feel that Co-op have acted unfairly towards Mr S as he contends 
here and follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any 
further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman