DRN-2353838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the way Society of Lloyds handled a claim under their home 
insurance policy for water damage to a bathroom and the effect of the claim on their 
insurance premiums.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs H made a claim to Lloyds after water came in through their roof 
and damaged a bathroom. 
Lloyds accepted the claim. It appointed a contractor to carry out repairs. The contractor 
advised that a structural wooden beam appeared to have rotted. It said it would have to be 
replaced. That would mean the bathroom couldnt be used for several weeks.
In order to minimise upheaval for the family who preferred not to move into a hotel, Lloyds 
agreed to replace a faulty shower in the downstairs bathroom.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Lloyds about the slow progress of the works. They said the 
contractor had a three hour journey to their home each way and so didnt spend much time 
actually carrying out repairs. It took over two weeks to install the shower. They were also 
generally unhappy with the work and werent able to get hold of the contractor.
Lloyds then appointed a different contractor. The new contractor said the structural wooden 
beam didnt need to be replaced after all.
After Mr and Mrs H complained about the way their claim had been handled, Lloyds 
accepted that it shouldnt have used a contractor who had to travel such a distance before 
starting work and its decision to replace the beam had been premature. It paid £500 
compensation to Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H were also unhappy with the amount theyd been quoted to renew their policy. 
They were told by their broker the increase was because they had an open claim. Lloyds 
said the claim hadnt made any difference to the premium. It offered them a discount of 15 
per cent on their premiums. It also said the cost of the claim had been wrongly increased by 
the replacement beam, so it would adjust the claim cost to what the claim should have 
otherwise cost, being £6,500. Lastly it offered them a further £250 compensation because of 
the effect of the works on their childs health.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. Amongst other things our investigator 
recommended that Lloyds should pay further compensation of £300. Lloyds agreed to that.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. 
I didnt think it was in dispute that Mr and Mrs H suffered avoidable trouble and upset due to 
failings on the part of Lloyds. Their claim had dragged on for much longer than it should 
have done and the first contractor used by Lloyds caused a lot of unnecessary extra work. 
But I noted the parties had agreed the sum of £800 was appropriate to compensate Mr and 
Mrs H for that together with a further £250 for the effect of the works on their childs health. 
I thought that meant the only issue left for me to look at was the effect of the claim on Mr 
and Mrs Hs premiums. In July 2018 they paid a premium of just under £600. In July 2019 
that increased to just under £1,400. Both policies had a £100 excess. In July 2020 they 
were quoted just under £550 for a policy with a £250 excess. I thought presumably it would 
have been slightly more with a £100 excess.
Lloyds explained that the underwriter of the 2018 policy wasnt offering renewal. So it had 
to approach a different underwriter. That underwriter had higher premium rates. The best it 
could offer was a 15% discount. Lloyds said that the claim didnt affect the premium. I 
accepted that was why the premium increased in 2019. However I thought it was Lloyds 
fault that Mr and Mrs H had no choice but to pay this.
In its final response regarding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint Lloyds acknowledged it was likely 
that theyd have had difficulty changing insurers while their claim was still open. That 
sounded likely to me too  insurers often dont want to quote while a claim is still open with 
another insurer. I thought it was Lloyds fault that the claim was still open at that stage. The 
original damage should have only taken a short time to repair. The claim would have been 
closed well before July 2019 if the scope of the works had been correct at the outset and 
there hadnt been poor workmanship and delays on the part of the first contractor.
So in order to put things right I provisionally thought Lloyds should calculate and pay Mr 
and Mrs H the increase in premium they had to pay in 2019 as a result of having an open 
claim at that time.
Based on the premiums they paid in 2018 and 2020 it seemed to me that increase was in 
the region of £800.
I also thought in order to treat Mr and Mrs H fairly Lloyds should pay simple interest at the 
rate of 8 per cent a year on the increase from the date of payment of the premium to the 
date of settlement.
Mr and Mrs H had no further comment. In summary Lloyds said:
The premium increased in 2019 due to the fact that the new underwriter had significantly 
higher rates than the previous one rather than the fact that there was an open claim.
Mr and Mrs Hs claims history (three claims in 2017/18) had led some insurers to decline 
to quote on the 2020 renewal.
There was no evidence that Mr and Mrs H could have got equivalent cover in 2019 for the 
premium theyd paid in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the premium charged by Lloyds in 2019 didnt increase due to Mr and Mrs H 
having an open claim. The significance of the open claim in my opinion is that it effectively 
prevented them from obtaining quotes from other insurers.
Its also clear that Mr and Mrs Hs claims history was unattractive to a number of insurers in 
2020. But they did find at least one insurer willing to provide cover at what they considered a 
competitive premium for broadly the same cover.Mr and Mrs Hs premium went from around £600 in 2018 to around £1,400 in 2019 and they 
were quoted a total premium of £1,473 by a Lloyds underwriter in 2020. So on the face of it 
the fact that their claims were a year older in 2020 doesnt seem to have reduced the 
premium. 
I cant be sure that, if they hadnt had an open claim at that point, Mr and Mrs H could have 
got equivalent cover in 2019 for what they later paid in 2020 when the claim was closed. But 
since the 2019 and 2020 premiums quoted by Lloyds didnt vary much, I think its more likely 
than not that the premiums offered by Mr and Mrs Hs new insurer would have been much 
the same too. So I remain of the view that Lloyds should pay £800 compensation to Mr and 
Mrs H for the financial loss they suffered as a result of not being able to shop around for 
cheaper insurance in 2019 due to having an open claim.
As the parties previously agreed to the figure of £300 previously suggested by our 
investigator and its in line with what Id have awarded for the trouble and upset caused to Mr 
and Mrs H (taking into account what has already been paid in that respect), I see no reason 
to change it.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs H the sum of £800 
plus simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent a year from the date of payment of the premium 
in 2019 to the date of settlement and a further £300 compensation for trouble and upset.
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs H, it should tell them how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman