DRN-3270215
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) because it has 
incorrectly blocked his account on two occasions. He wants Halifax to pay him substantially 
more compensation than it has offered to date. 
What happened
Mr C has very similar name details to one of his family members. That family member also 
shares Mr Cs address and date of birth. 
The family member requested an insolvency arrangement on their accounts with Halifax in 
late 2020. 
In error, Halifax then applied an insolvency block to Mr Cs account. This prevented Mr C 
from using his cards or account.
Mr C alerted Halifax. Halifax acknowledged the error, but it took Mr C attending a branch on 
three occasions before the block was lifted. 
Mr C complained to Halifax, and Halifax offered him £224 compensation to reflect his 
inconvenience and costs. 
In January 2021, Halifax again applied a block to Mr Cs account. He complained and Halifax 
offered him a further £155 compensation and made a note on his account to prevent this 
happening again. 
Mr C was not happy with this and contacted us. He thinks that Halifax ought to pay him more 
compensation to reflect his inconvenience and embarrassment and so that Halifax takes 
greater care in future. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This 
was that Halifax had made mistakes but that the offers of compensation and the action to 
prevent it happening again were sufficient. They therefore did not recommend Halifax do 
anything further. 
Mr C did not accept that view. He thinks that the compensation is insufficient.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Cs upset and frustration at this confusion having caused him to be denied 
access to his account for a number of days over two occasions. I can understand that this 
would have been very inconvenient and could have caused substantial embarrassment 
when he wanted to make purchases. I can understand that he would want Halifax to be 
deterred from making the mistake again. 
I do, however, repeat the comments of the investigator that we do not seek to punish 
financial businesses when things go wrong. We instead look to put the consumer back in the 
position they ought to have been in.
Clearly here we cannot undo the mistake or prevent Mr C suffering the inconvenience and 
embarrassment that he was caused. Consequently, we look at whether the financial 
compensation offered reflects the effects caused to the consumer and if it is in line with 
awards we would direct in similar circumstances. 
In this case Halifax has taken steps to prevent the mistake happening again and has offered 
£300 to reflect Mr Cs distress and inconvenience, and £77 to reflect his costs of getting the 
issue resolved. I think that is appropriate, bearing in mind the duration of Mr Cs account 
being unavailable and the efforts Mr C had to go to get it reinstated. 
This offer is in line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances and so I am 
satisfied that Halifax has responded to the complaint reasonably. 
Consequently, while I understand that Mr C will be unhappy, I do not ask Halifax to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman