DRN-2258899
The complaint
Mrs F complained she had been mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with some 
loans she took out with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Lloyds upheld her complaint in part, but 
Mrs F isnt happy with what Lloyds has done with the compensation.
What happened
Mrs Fs complaint is about the sale of PPI with nine loans taken with Lloyds. The loans were 
taken out between 1996 and 2003, to be repaid between 1996 and 2010.
In 2019 Lloyds agreed that PPI had been mis-sold PPI on six of these loans and offered to 
pay compensation. But Mrs F had been declared bankrupt in 2009. So, Lloyds paid the 
compensation to Mrs Fs trustee in bankruptcy, the Official Receiver. 
Mrs F doesnt think this is fair as she says she been discharged from the bankruptcy. So, 
she thinks the compensation should have been paid directly to her as her debts have all 
been put behind her after the bankruptcy closed.
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had done was fair. Mrs F didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first clarify that Im not looking at whether the policies were mis-sold, or at the 
amount of compensation paid. I am only considering whether Lloyds acted fairly in paying 
the compensation to the Official Receiver rather than direct to Mrs F. 
The amount of compensation Lloyds agreed to pay was £16,059.59 and it has given us 
evidence to show that it was sent to the Official Receiver on 2 April 2019 and it has 
confirmed that payment was cashed. The Official Receiver has joined as a party to this 
complaint as they have an interest in the outcome.  
When Mrs F entered into her bankruptcy order the Official Receiver took control of her 
financial matters, including all of her debts and her assets. I note that the last loan Mrs F 
took with Lloyds started in 2006 and wasnt due to be repaid until January 2010  so the loan 
had not been repaid in full at the time of her bankruptcy. So, this was part of the bankruptcy 
and I can see Lloyds is listed as one of the creditors on the insolvency records Ive been 
given. The PPI costs that she had paid for before she became bankrupt are classed as an 
asset in her bankruptcy (there was no PPI added to the last loan Mrs F took). 
When a business has mis-sold a policy to a consumer Id expect it to put things right by 
putting that customer, as far as possible, in the financial position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt been sold the PPI. I think that is what Lloyds has done here.
All of the loans which had PPI were taken out before Mrs F was declared bankrupt. So, any 
monies subsequentially owing on that PPI is effectively an asset at the time of the 
bankruptcy, albeit only being evident as an asset at a later date.
When a bankruptcy ends it means even if there was still money owing on Mrs Fs debts the 
businesses could not chase Mrs F or actively seek to recover the money still owing. 
However, it doesnt mean the debt itself doesnt exist.
Mrs F has referred to correspondence she received from the Courts which said Ordinarily a 
bankrupt is discharged after 1 year. Debts which are in existence at the date of the 
bankruptcy cease to be payable Mrs F says this is a legal directive. But I note the 
correspondence goes onto to say that it couldnt give legal advice in respect of Mrs Fs 
position and she should seek legal advice from elsewhere.
But at the time of the bankruptcy any of Mrs Fs assets could be used towards the 
outstanding debts. And as Ive explained above, the PPI compensation was an asset of    
Mrs F that existed before the bankruptcy, although it hadnt been converted to an amount at 
that time, but it has subsequently. So, it is fair it is paid to the Official Receiver who should 
get all of Mrs Fs assets that existed before her bankruptcy was discharged.
So, I dont think that Lloyds has done anything wrong.
If Mrs F has any concerns with the Official Receiver about the payment, she would need to 
take those up with the Official Receiver and I cannot make any comment on that 
arrangement. 
My final decision
I think what Lloyds Bank PLC has done with the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair 
and Im not directing it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman