DRN-3612336
The complaint
Mr and Mrs X complain that they were mis-sold a Staff Group Mortgage Protection Scheme 
(SGMPS) policy by Bank of Scotland plc. They state that they didnt need it as they had 
existing cover to protect their mortgage but were told that they had no choice.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
overview of what happened and focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs X transferred their existing mortgage to Bank of Scotland to avail a 
discounted rate for staff members. According to Bank of Scotlands records, the mortgage 
account was opened in late 1990. 
Mr and Mrs X say that they were told they needed the SGMPS cover alongside their 
mortgage. They believe that this was a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which was 
mis-sold to them since they already had alternative cover in place. Mr and Mrs X complained 
to Bank of Scotland about this in 2019.
Bank of Scotland says that the SGMPS policy was a decreasing term assurance policy 
designed for employees who took out a staff mortgage. If the policyholder(s) died during its 
term, the policy repaid the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think the policy was mis-sold and the complaint has since been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs X feel very strongly about their complaint. Id like to reassure them 
and Bank of Scotland that although Ive only summarised the background, so not everything 
thats happened or has been argued is covered, Ive read and considered everything in its 
entirety. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I 
dont think I need to address it to reach the right outcome. That I concentrate on what I 
consider to be the crux of the issue isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal 
dispute resolution service this office provides.
Mr and Mrs X have commented on the lack of documentation held by Bank of Scotland. But 
businesses arent required to keep documentation for longer than necessary. Indeed, they 
would be breaching data protection obligations if they did. The policy was sold over 30 years 
ago and the borrowing that it was linked to was repaid in the early 2000s, so Im not 
surprised that theres no documentation available.
Its not easy to determine now, over 30 years after the cover started, exactly what did or 
didnt happen at the time of sale. Where evidence is incomplete, like here, I base my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened considering what evidence is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances. This includes what Mr and Mrs X have 
told us and the information Bank of Scotland has been able to provide. 
Mr and Mrs X believe that they were sold some form of PPI. But they havent provided any 
supporting evidence to show that the policy they took out provided benefits that are 
associated with PPI (such as covering repayments for a specific borrowing for a set period of 
time if they fell ill or lost their job). 
Bank of Scotland, on the other hand, has said that Mr and Mrs X took out was a decreasing 
term assurance which offered life cover for the same term and amount of the mortgage 
lending. It has provided internal system screenshots to evidence that there was no PPI 
attached to Mr and Mrs Xs mortgage. 
On balance, Im persuaded more by Bank of Scotlands version and have therefore gone on 
to consider whether a decreasing term assurance policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs X.
Bank of Scotland has said that it was a condition of the lending that life cover was in place 
which matched the term and amount of the mortgage. The bank was entitled to set its own 
lending condition. So, if Mr and Mrs X wanted to accept the mortgage, they needed to have 
arranged suitable life cover. 
Mr and Mrs X have said that they had existing cover in place when they transferred their 
mortgage to Bank of Scotland. However, the available evidence indicates that they took out 
a loan around the same time as the mortgage. This is also in line with Mr and Mrs Xs 
recollections. 
Ive seen a selection of account statements for both the mortgage and the loan. The 
mortgage statement has the words SHP printed on it, which Bank of Scotland says stand 
for Secured House Purchase. The loan statement includes the words SHI which stand for 
Secured Home Improvement.       
So, given that the loan Mr and Mrs X took out when they transferred their mortgage to Bank 
of Scotland was likely to have been secured against their home, the total amount they 
borrowed would more likely than not have been higher than their original mortgage. Given 
this, even if the existing cover was sufficient to protect Mr and Mrs Xs original borrowing, its 
most likely that there would have been a shortfall when took out additional borrowing in the 
form of a secured loan. 
The SGMPS policy would have therefore been useful and, given Bank of Scotlands lending 
criteria at the time, necessary to cover the shortfall in the event one party died. Further, as 
an employee scheme, the policy likely offered life cover at a lower cost compared to other 
providers and this may very well have been a consideration. 
So, all in all, I dont think that it was unfair or unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to sell 
Mr and Mrs X the cover to match their lending to satisfy their mortgage conditions. For 
completeness, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable for them. So, it 
is my finding that it was suitable for Mr and Mrs X.
I know that Mr and Mrs X will be disappointed with my decision. But I can only fairly uphold 
the complaint if I think that Bank of Scotland acted unfairly. Having considered Mr and 
Mrs Xs circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded that the SGMPS policy was mis-sold to them. Accordingly, I dont agree that the premiums should be returned to them for the period 
that the cover was in force.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X and Mrs X to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman