DRN-2169978
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way in which J D Williams and Company Limited trading as 
Fashion World handled her account.  
What happened
Ms M held a credit account with Fashion World. In 2007 she experienced financial difficulties 
and entered into a payment arrangement to pay £1 per month with interest and charges 
frozen. The balance of the account in 2007 isnt known but in September 2009 it was 
£941.76.  
Ms M continued to make payments under the payment arrangement for several years. In 
2019, Fashion World sold the account to a third party. Following this, the third party 
defaulted the account.
Ms M says she thought the account shouldve been defaulted by Fashion World in 2007. 
She says she only because aware that it hadnt been when she received a letter from the 
third party. She complained to Fashion World.
In response, Fashion World said it hadnt registered a default on Ms Ms account because 
she was up to date with her payment arrangement. It said that if it had registered a default 
on her credit file in circumstances where she hadnt defaulted, it would be reporting 
inaccurate information to the credit reference agencies.
Ms M wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think Fashion World had acted fairly 
by setting up a long-term payment plan and that it wouldve been inn Ms Ms best interests if 
the account had been defaulted in 2007. He said Fashion World should buy the account 
back, notify the credit reference agencies that the account shouldve been defaulted in 2007 
and pay compensation.
Fashion World didnt agree. It said there was no evidence to suggest that Ms Ms account 
was in arrears in 2007 and said it had treated her fairly by agreeing the payment plan and 
settling the account to interest free. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ICO guidance that was current in 2007 is relevant to this complaint. It says that if you fall 
into arrears on your account, or do not keep to the terms of a revised arrangement, a default 
may be recorded to shown that the relationship has broken down. As a general rule, a 
provider of credit would be expected to record a default when a consumer is 3 months in 
arrears, and normally by the time a consumer is 6 months in arrears.
The guidance also says that temporary arrangements may last for some time but are 
generally expected to revert to the contractual terms at some future point.
When the payment arrangement was agreed, the level of repayments made by Ms M were 
very low. Ms M owed over £900 in 2007 so it wouldve taken over 75 years to repay the debt. 
Ms  M was trying to do what she could to repay the debt and I havent seen anything to 
suggest that she missed any payments under the payment plan.
So I dont think Ms M should be in a worse position than someone who made no effort to pay 
at all. Had Ms M not entered into the payment plan, I think its likely the account wouldve 
been defaulted. And the default wouldve been removed from her credit file 6 years later.
As Fashion World knew it would take over 75 years to repay the debt, I think it wouldve 
been fairer for it to default the account.  I dont think anyone could say that 10 years is a 
temporary payment arrangement. The ICO guidance is designed to stop businesses 
defaulting consumers who ask for a 6-12 month payment arrangement. But here we are 
looking at a long-term arrangement. 
I dont disagree with Fashion Worlds comments that it has been positive and sympathetic 
towards Ms M. However, if it had defaulted the account, this wouldve had the effect of 
permanently suspending interest and charges, so Ms M is no worse off by being defaulted 
(and arguably, worse off by not being defaulted as shes now been defaulted by the third 
party).
I dont think whats happened here has resulted in a fair outcome for Ms M. By not defaulting 
the account, and even thought she was in a 10 year temporary arrangement, the outcome 
is that Ms M has been defaulted now.
I think the fair outcome here is that the default should be backdated. Ive taken into account 
what Fashion World has said about there being no evidence that Ms Ms account was in 
arrears in 2007. However, the fact that a payment arrangement was set up in 2007 means  
its more likely than not that Ms M was in financial difficulties and probably in arrears as a 
result, so whilst theres no account information going back to 2007, Im persuaded that Ms M 
wasnt in a position to make contractual payments in 2007, hence the payment plan.
Putting things right
Im of the view that Fashion World need to put things right here. I appreciate that the third 
party was responsible for defaulting the account. But because the responsibility for the 
handling of the account leading up to this rests with Fashion World, I think it should buy the 
account back from the third party so it can put things right. It should backdate the default to 
the date in 2007 when the payment plan started. It should also ensure that any negative 
markers (including missed payments registered by the third party) are removed from Ms Ms 
credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. J D Williams and Company Limited trading 
as Fashion World must buy back the account, backdate the default to 2007 and ensure that 
all negative markers are removed from Ms Ms credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman