DRN-2930323
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Premium Credit Limited (PCL) didnt do more to support him with his 
repayments on a running account credit agreement, when he got into financial difficulty after 
the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr F had a private hire motor insurance policy, which was arranged through a third party in 
January 2020. PCL provided him with the finance to pay for the annual premium. 
Mr F says that in March 2020 he had to stop work due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He 
contacted the third-party broker to ask for a payment holiday and says he was told to contact 
PCL. 
He did this in April 2020 after his April payment bounced twice. He was written to, but he 
says he was only offered a five-day payment deferral and was told he had to contact the 
broker who administers the policy, for a payment holiday. He was also told that he could 
cancel his policy but that it would cost £200. Which he says he couldnt afford. 
The May payment was charged and then the credit agreement was cancelled by PCL in   
May 2020. Mr F was unhappy and complained to PCL. He said he hadnt used his policy and 
wasnt given enough support despite them knowing his difficult circumstances at the time. 
PCL responded to say that they had treated Mr F fairly. They said that any payment deferral 
or arrangement would have needed to be agreed with the broker. They also said that they 
werent responsible for applying any cancellation charge. Mr F remained unhappy and didnt 
think that PCL had done enough to support him. 
Our investigator looked into it. She said she didnt think that PCL had given Mr F the right 
guidance at the right time, to support him. Whilst there wasnt FCA Covid guidance in place 
at the time, they could have explored other options with Mr F such as payment deferrals or 
cancelling the agreement sooner. She felt that although there was still an amount owing 
towards the insurance, this could have mitigated some of the distress and inconvenience   
Mr F suffered. She was of the opinion PCL should pay Mr F £150 compensation for not 
looking into other options of support with Mr F.
Mr F responded to say that he was happy with the outcome reached by the Investigator. 
However, PCL didnt agree. They maintained that the advice and support they gave Mr F 
was appropriate. They said that they had an arrangement with the broker, that they could 
consider financial difficulty and grant support such as payment deferrals, instead of PCL. As 
no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
When Mr F contacted PCL in April 2020, the difficult circumstances he was in were clear. 
The start of the Covid-19 pandemic meant he wasnt able to start work as a private hire 
driver, as intended. This had denied him of the income to pay for this policy. 
I appreciate that at this time there were not yet any Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
published guidelines for supporting customers facing difficulties due to Covid-19. However, 
there was pre-existing regulatory guidance for firms, when helping customers in financial 
difficulty. This was set out by the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I have 
thought about whether PCL did enough regarding this, and I dont think it did. 
PCL were Mr Fs credit provider and he had just been referred to them by the broker 
responsible for administering the insurance policy, after spending much time on the phone 
attempting to get support. There was a requirement on PCL to treat Mr F positively and 
sympathetically, but I cant see that they did that. Instead referring Mr F back to the broker. 
PCL did waive the default payment and ultimately the credit agreement was cancelled in 
May 2020. I am mindful that PCL had an arrangement with the broker, so it required the 
broker to consider forbearance when Mr F explained his financial difficulty. The broker, 
therefore, shouldnt have referred Mr F to PCL. The broker should have explored other 
support options but didnt do so. However, the broker was acting on PCLs behalf. So, PCL 
is responsible for this not happening.
With the broker not doing this, the right thing for PCL to have done in April 2020 was to 
assess Mr Fs circumstances and whether he could afford to pay the monthly payments. As 
Mr F was out of work and couldnt have been sure of his return, PCL could have considered 
payment deferrals or ultimately cancelled the agreement, without having to go back to the 
broker.  
I cant be sure what Mr F would have done if PCL had explained this as the best option for 
him in April 2020. However, the agreement was ultimately cancelled anyway shortly 
afterwards, with the same charge. Despite this, I do think Mr F could have been treated more 
positively and sympathetically and that this caused him further distress and inconvenience. 
PCL have said it was right to refer Mr F back to the broker, who is the service provider. They 
say this ensures customers only need to contact them for any changes. Whilst I appreciate 
the broker and service provider could have assessed Mr Fs circumstances and discussed 
options, I agree with the Investigator that this wasnt the right thing to do. Mr F wasnt looking 
for support with his insurance policy, but with his repayments of his finance agreement. 
Responsibility for this rested with PCL as the finance provider. Mr F had already been on the 
phone with multiple people and was looking for support. It wasnt fair to refer him back again, when PCL were capable of providing the support themselves. I think £150 is fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I require Premium Credit Limited to pay 
Mr F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman