DRN-3952554
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly 
declined their buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
RSA said Mr and Mrs Ms contractor told it the damage was likely due to the age of 
the window. RSA declined the claim as the policy excludes cover for wear and tear.
However, Ive not seen any evidence of inspections to the window, or a report from 
Mr and Mrs Ms contractor to confirm this as the actual cause of damage to the 
window.
Mr and Mrs M needed to get repairs done quickly, so I understand this would have 
prevented RSA doing a physical inspection, but I dont think there is enough 
evidence to persuade me the exclusion was fairly applied in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M said the window hinge broke whilst opening it. And I can see they are 
covered for accidental damage under the policy  which it defines as sudden, 
unexpected, and visible damage that hasnt been caused on purpose.
Having reviewed matters, Im not satisfied RSA has done enough to evidence the 
wear and tear exclusion applies in the circumstances and on balance Im more 
persuaded the window hinge was damaged in the way Mr and Mrs M have said. And 
I think the way the incident is described meets the policy definition of accidental 
damage. So, I think the claim should have been considered under this section.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct RSA to:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the cost of the repairs, less any applicable excess payment. On 
production of sufficient evidence, such as invoices or receipts.
RSA should also add simple interest of 8% to this amount from the date the amount 
was paid by Mr and Mrs M, to the date RSA makes payment to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman