DRN-3788764
The complaint
Mr C complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited took too long to release funds held 
in his account back to him. He is also unhappy about the service he received trying to sort 
things out. Mr C says this made things difficult for him financially. 
What happened
Mr C opened a trading account with Interactive in March 2022. Mr C opened the account as 
he intended to buy some shares and he deposited £260 into the account to fund the 
purchase. However, he changed his mind and asked Interactive to refund his money. 
Mr C contacted interactive by phone and email to arrange the refund. But each time he did 
so Interactive gave him a different explanation for why it wasnt able to process a refund. 
The reasons given by Interactive were that Mr C hadnt had his account for long enough, the 
funds werent in his account and that Interactive were experiencing I.T problems. Interactive 
also told Mr C that it was processing a refund on more than one occasion, and that this 
would take around 10 days to complete. However, this didnt happen until May 2022. Mr C 
was also charged an account fee of just under £10 after Interactive agreed to refund him.
Mr C complained to Interactive about the amount of time he had to wait for his money to be 
returned and the different explanations Interactive gave him. Mr C said he had to make 
numerous phone calls and send several emails which he says caused him inconvenience 
and stress. He also explained that due to the cost of living crisis he needed the money 
Interactive were holding to pay for everyday living expenses.
In response, Interactive apologised and paid Mr C £40 compensation for the delays caused 
by its ongoing I.T issues and told Mr C that hed receive his funds within 10 working days. 
But, Interactive, only paid Mr C the compensation payment. And didnt refund his balance 
within the timescale it had given Mr C. So, on 12 April 2022, Mr C complained again. 
Interactive told Mr C again that it would refund his money within 10 days.
Mr C didnt receive his balance funds. So, he contacted Interactive again. Interactive 
apologised and said it had given Mr C wrong information on 12 April 2022 and that it was still 
experiencing I.T problems. To put things right Interactive paid Mr C an additional £20 
compensation for giving him incorrect information about when he would receive his balance.  
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome. He said despite Interactive agreeing not to charge him 
an account fee during a phone call he had with them, he was still charged. And he wants 
more compensation for the poor service he received overall from Interactive. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. She thought Interactive hadnt caused any delays when it was processing Mr Cs 
refund and that it had tried to move things along as quickly as it could to get Mr Cs money 
back to him. However, she said Interactive had given Mr C misleading information on several 
occasions and Mr C had to make a number of calls to try and sort things out. So, she said 
Interactive should pay Mr C an additional £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused him.
Mr C accepted what the investigator said. Interactive disagreed and said it had done enough 
to put things right. And had also refunded Mr C the account fee it had charged him. 
Interactive accepted that it gave Mr C different explanations but said Mr C wouldnt have 
received his funds back any sooner than he did regardless of what it said to Mr C due to 
circumstances outside of its control. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances for Interactive to have taken as long as it did to refund Mr Cs balance.  
Interactive has explained that being able to release Mr Cs funds back to him was dependant 
on resolving issues outside of its control. And I accept that it was. Im also satisfied that 
Interactive tried to move things along as quickly as possible so that it could return Mr Cs 
funds to him. And didnt cause any unnecessary delays. So, whilst I accept, not having 
access to his money caused Mr C inconvenience and upset, I cant say Interactive did 
anything wrong during its refund process. 
Ive next moved on to consider the level of service Interactive provided Mr C. Having done 
so, I think there were a number of customer service issues which have had an impact on 
Mr C. Individually, these werent significant. But when Mr C had to face multiple problems, I 
think the distress, confusion, and inconvenience he experienced was compounded. 
Interactive has accepted it provided Mr C with poor service. When a business makes a 
mistake that affects a customer, it would be expected that the business puts their customer 
back in the position that they would be in had the error not occurred. Ive considered what 
Mr C has said about how Interactives actions impacted him. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for Mr C And I agree some 
compensation is appropriate for this. 
I say this because when Mr C contacted Interactive, he was given different explanations for 
about why his refund couldnt be processed. These included being told that he had 
insufficient funds in his account and that he hadnt had his account open for 90 days. Both of 
these explanations were incorrect. Interactive subsequently told Mr C it was experiencing I.T 
issues. But Mr C wasnt provided this explanation until 22 April 2022  after hed been 
provided with two other very different explanations about why he couldnt get his money 
back. So, I can understand Mr Cs frustration and confusion. I think it would have been 
helpful if Interactive had explained the issues it was facing from the start of its interactions 
with Mr C  even if it wasnt able to provide a detailed explanation at the time.   
Interactive also told Mr C he would receive his refund within 10 days on more than one 
occasion, but this didnt happen. Having looked at a chronology of events I can see 
Interactive did this on five separate occasions between 30 March and 12 April 2022. As a 
result, Mr C had to spend time making phone calls and sending emails to Interactive to find 
out what was happening and when he would receive his refund. So, I can appreciate this 
wouldve been  inconvenient and frustrating for him  especially because at the time Mr C was finding it hard to make ends meet due to the cost of living crisis. And its only right that 
Interactive  recognises this. 
When in weight everything up, I think the level of customer service fell below what Mr C 
could rightly expect to receive from Interactive. Although Interactive have apologised and 
paid Mr C £60 compensation, I dont think this goes far enough to fairly recognise the impact 
on Mr C. Taking everything into account, I think Interactive should pay Mr C a further £50 
compensation to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr C was caused  taking 
the total amount of compensation to £110.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is to put things right Interactive Investor 
Services Limited should pay Mr C an additional £50 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the conflicting information he received from Interactive Investor Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman