DRN-2862973
The complaint
 Mr T complains about the service he received from AXA Insurance UK Plc after he made a 
claim for fire damage to his property and possessions.
 
What happened
 On 26 June 2017 Mr Ts property sustained extensive fire damaged following a fire that 
started in his neighbours home. As a result, he contacted AXA as he wanted to make a 
claim for damage to his contents and building.
In July 2017, AXA appointed a solicitor, which Ill refer to here as D, to assist it to recover 
Mr Ts losses on its behalf. D requested details of Mr Ts losses together with supporting 
evidence. AXA said Mr T provided some of the corroborative evidence it requested in August 
2019. 
In September 2019, D wrote to Mr T to inform him that some of the personal belongings he 
wanted to claim for werent recoverable because he hadnt provided adequate proof of 
ownership. AXA wrote to Mr T on 26 October 2019 to confirm this. And it explained that he 
could still pursue a claim for his valuables and other losses against the third party  although 
hed still need to substantiate his claim with evidence.
Being unhappy with the way in which AXA had progressed his claim, Mr T complained. But 
AXA didnt uphold his complaint. It thought it had progressed Mr Ts claim proactively and 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr T referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service looked into what had happened and thought AXA hadnt 
communicated with Mr T about his claim as proactively as it could have done. After they 
discussed this with AXA it offered to pay Mr T £150 compensation to recognise the trouble 
and upset he would have been caused. Our investigator thought the compensation offered 
by AXA was appropriate and fair. But Mr T disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr T experienced here. I appreciate this has been a 
very stressful situation for him and I know he feels strongly about his complaint.
Ive read and considered all the information provided. If I havent specifically referred to a 
point that Mr T or AXA have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will 
focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal 
nature of this service.
This complaint is about the service Mr T received from AXA. I understand that he made a 
separate complaint to our service relating how AXA decided to settle his claim for losses. I 
can see that, when Mr T responded to our investigators view of his complaint, he referred to 
his frustration and upset with AXAs decision to decline some of his claim due to insufficient 
evidence of ownership. But another ombudsman has already issued a final decision about 
the way in which AXA settled Mr Ts claim. So, the arguments that Mr T has raised relating 
to how his claim was settled fall outside the scope of this complaint. And, for this reason, Im 
not going to comment on AXAs repudiation rationale within this decision. 
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that Mr Ts claim was complex. There was a 
complicated reinstatement programme and high value contents claim. And I can see that Mr 
Ts claim went on for several years. It. I can understand why that might have been frustrating 
and inconvenient for Mr T. I can imagine that he thought, at the start, his claim was going to 
be sorted out with minimal fuss.
Ive seen a detailed chronology setting out the stages of Mr Ts claim and what action was 
taken by AXA in the progression of that claim. 
Its evident that AXA appointed D at the outset of Mr Ts claim to assist it in recovering the 
losses he had incurred. I think that was a reasonable approach for AXA to take. And I can 
see that D explained to Mr T what its role was. I can also see that it took the steps it was 
able to in order to recover as much of Mr Ts losses as it could.
Based on the chronology Ive seen, I think AXA progressed Mr Ts claim as quickly as was 
reasonably practicable. It appears that there were periods where AXA didnt update Mr T as 
frequently as it could have done. I say this because there could have been more regular 
updates provided to Mr T about the progress of his claim, which AXA has accepted.
In not providing regular updates to Mr T, there were periods where he was unaware of what 
was happening with his claim. I think that, had AXA communicated with Mr T more regularly 
and consistently, this would have helped to manage his expectations of his claim and reduce 
his stress. This would have also meant that Mr T felt more supported by AXA during what 
was, understandably, a deeply unsettling and distressing time for him.
Mr T feels that he suffered financial loss as a result of the service he received. He appears 
to believe that this was because a number of personal items werent included within the 
settlement he received. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, this wasnt as a result of 
poor or irregular communication. Instead, this was due to Mr T being unable to prove 
ownership of the items in question. 
I can see that both D and AXA provided plenty of opportunity for Mr T to provide evidence of 
ownership in order to support his claim for the loss of personal belongings. Ive also seen 
that clear and detailed explanations were provided by both AXA and D in relation to why it 
didnt feel there were reasonable prospects of a successful claim for those items. 
The reason Mr Ts claim wasnt settled in full was unrelated to poor service and irregular 
communication. And, while AXA may not have been communicating with Mr T as proactively 
as it could have been, Ive seen evidence that it was progressing his claim with other parties 
in the background. In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that the 
service Mr T received impacted on the outcome of his claim.  
AXA has offered to pay Mr T £150 to recognise the shortfalls in service he experienced. And 
I think it was right to offer to pay compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
he was caused by what happened. Its clear that Mr T doesnt think this sum adequately 
reflects his experience So, Ive carefully assessed whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably 
in offering to put things right. We arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id have asked AXA to make 
an appropriate award of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset Mr T would have been 
caused. When our service awards compensation we look at the overall impact on the people 
involved. We dont award money for each individual error.
It's inherent with property damage claims that stress and inconvenience will be caused to a 
policyholder. But, having taken everything into account, Im persuaded that a modest award 
of compensation is warranted to reflect the aspects of poor service that Mr T received. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigators view that the compensation 
offered is an appropriate amount of compensation thats proportionate to the trouble and 
upset that Mr T would have been caused here. Its consistent with our approach in similar 
scenarios and its what Id have told AXA to pay had no offer been made. 
I appreciate Mr T wants me to direct AXA to pay more compensation. But I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. It isnt clear whether AXA has 
already paid the compensation it offered to Mr T. If it remains outstanding AXA should pay 
Mr T £150 to resolve this complaint.
I know this wont be the response Mr T will want. But, in the overall circumstances, Im 
satisfied that the offer AXA has made to resolve this dispute is fair in reasonable in the 
overall circumstances. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, AXA should pay Mr T £150 in compensation to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr 
T £150 to resolve this complaint if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman