DRN-2086638
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) have been 
charging excessive premiums for his house and contents insurance for several years.
What happened
Mr M tells us he arranged his house and contents insurance with UKI in November 2007 
having carried out market research to satisfy himself that he had the cover he needed at a 
competitive price. Mr M took reassurance from this and that he was getting a fair price so he 
didnt feel the need to shop around each year. UKI wrote to him each year advising the 
renewal cost and telling him the policy would renew automatically if he took no action.
Prior to the 2019 renewal Mr M says he checked the market to confirm whether the policy 
was still competitive, and says he found that policies from nearly every comparable provider 
were cheaper. He also saw that UKI were offering a lower price on their website compared 
to the renewal notice hes been sent.
Mr M called UKI to ask if theyd reduce the renewal price and, having made a change to the 
voluntary excess on the policy he was quoted a reduced price. But this was still higher than 
hed seen on their website. Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained that hed been 
overcharged for some years. He told UKI he wanted them to refund an appropriate amount 
of money for what he felt had been inflated premiums over the time hed held the policy. And 
he asked UKI to confirm the premiums charged each year.
UKI responded to Mr M advising that the renewal prices theyd offered were in line with its 
pricing structure, and they confirmed the premium charged each year. They added that they 
felt it was right to recognise his loyalty as hed been a customer since 2007 and offered a 
good will gesture of £2,000. UKI noted that the policy had renewed automatically each year 
without discussion and apart from dealing with claims thered been no other contact. UKI 
said it could have done more around the renewal date to speak with Mr M to ensure he was 
happy with the product and cost of its service.
Mr M responded to UKI saying £2,000 fell far short of the amount hed calculated hed been 
overcharged. He compared the renewal price UKI offered when hed called them to discuss 
his 2019 renewal with a quote hed obtained from UKIs website. And it was approximately 
135% of the figure on the website. He suggested this figure be used as the starting point for 
calculating the overcharge using a straightforward progression from the 2008 renewal 
onwards. He calculated an overcharge of £5,831.05 and added an assumed annual interest 
rate of 10% to reach a claim for £9,225.61. 
UKI sent a final response to Mr M advising the 2007 premium included discounts and stated 
theyd invited Mr M to call and discuss his renewal each year. They acknowledged a cheaper 
price had been available in 2019 but said it couldnt be assumed the same pricing structure 
has been used in previous years and set out that insurers base their rates on claims 
statistics, their assessment of risk and margin. They said they were unable to accept the 
figure Mr M had calculated. Mr M wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator explained that customers not engaging with their insurer despite renewals 
showing increased premiums is sometimes referred to as inertia. And that if a customer 
doesnt engage about renewals for 4 years they might be considered inert. Its from this 
point wed expect a business to calculate any redress.
She felt that UKI had acted unfairly in in relation to the renewal increases but thought the 
offer theyd made was reasonable. So she didnt uphold the complaint. She subsequently 
explained that UKI had shown us it compared the premium paid in 2012 with the amounts 
paid since, added simple interest at 8%, rounded these figures up and added another £100 
to reach the figure of £2,000 it had offered to Mr M. 
Mr M felt that premium increases prior to 2012 shouldve been taken into account and that 
using 2012 as a baseline wasnt fair. He asked that an ombudsman decide his case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
When looking at complaints of this nature our role is to make sure a customer has been 
treated fairly and in line with how other customers have been treated. It isnt the role of this 
service to tell an insurer what it should charge for its policies.
When someone doesnt engage on the cost of their renewal we refer to them as inert, they 
have a tendency to do nothing and accept their renewal price quoted each year without 
question. There comes a point when a customer isnt engaging that we feel it is fair to expect 
the business should have been aware of this. And wed expect them to take care not to treat 
the customer unfairly when this happens or take advantage of their lack engagement.
Mr Ms policy was taken out in 2007 costing £594.83 and first renewed in 2008. By 2012 the 
policy had renewed four times and the price on the fifth renewal had increased to £1284.93. 
By this point I think UKI should have realised Mr M wasnt engaging with the cost of his 
policy on renewal and that he was inert to the price increases  accepting these without 
challenge.
UKI accepts that Mr M was inert to its price increases and it could have done more to ensure 
the price it was charging him was fair. Although it hasnt agreed it was taking advantage of 
his lack of engagement, it does feel it could have done more ensure the policy it was offering 
was best suited to his needs. It made an offer to settle Mr Ms complaint because of this 
when it issued its final response.
UKIs offer refunds some the premiums paid by Mr M from 2012 onwards. It has in effect 
frozen his premium at the 2012 price, refunding anything paid in excess of this until the 
policy was cancelled. This refund includes interest at 8% as well as an additional payment of 
£100.00 for distress and inconvenience and UKI rounded this amount up to £2000.00. 
As UKI has made its offer to put things right for Mr M, Ive considered whether I think this is 
fair. 
UKI say the 2007 premium included a heavy discount  this is not unusual to attract new 
customers. UKI also explained this discount was recouped overtime and therefore Mr Ms premium increased as it did year on year until 2012. It has also explained in later years the 
claims Mr M made on his policy had a direct impact on the cost of his premium.
There were three claims made on Mr Ms policy over the years his cover was in place. The 
first costing in excess of £4,000 in 2012. And in 2015 claims were settled for 2 accidentally 
damaged personal possessions with a total value in excess of £700. These claims impacted 
the renewals in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and loadings were applied. I note the 2018 premium 
was slightly lower than the 2012 renewal when these loadings were removed.
Ive seen the level of discount applied by UKI when the policy was first taken out and 
considered the impact of this and the claims on his policy. Im afraid I cant share this with 
Mr M as its commercially sensitive. Having considered this, Im satisfied the offer it has 
made to refund him some of his premiums paid overtime is fair. It has effectively frozen the 
cost of Mr Ms premium at the 2012 price and refunded the difference paid above this for 
ever year subsequent year.  Its clear the claims made on the policy after this point would 
have impacted the price of it so taking account of this and the discount recouped at the start, 
I think UKIs offer to settle this complaint is fair.
I appreciate Mr M has said he feels the increase to the price in 2012 and inbuilt recouping of 
new customer discount within this is unreasonable, but its not my role to tell UKI what it 
should charge for the insurance it offers. Im satisfied it has treated him fairly when it priced 
his policy and the offer made to refund him some of the premiums he paid from 2012 
onwards is fair. Although it has been able to explain some of the price increases on his 
policy, it hasnt been able to justify all of them from this point onwards. 
Mr M suggests that the figure of £2,000 offered by UKI was limited by the authority of the 
individual making the offer, and that being such a round figure it isnt based on an accurate 
calculation. Ive seen evidence that this isnt the case, and that UKI have rounded up the 
amount it could have offered. 
In the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that the offer made by UKI is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking U K Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman