DRN-4069856
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr O entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in June 2013 (Time of Sale), to 
acquire a holiday product from a third party (the Supplier). The holiday product cost 
£12,833 and Mr O made an advance payment of around £2,577 and the rest was funded 
through the loan agreement. Mr O was required to make 120 monthly repayments of around 
£164.
In September 2020, Mr O complained to BPF saying that the terms of the loan offer made in 
2013 was that his annual income was £60,000. Mr O says his income was lower than this 
amount at just under £53,000. He said that BPF hadnt carried out adequate affordability 
checks to assess the appropriateness of the loan. He said the loan repayments had caused 
him significant financial hardship.
BPF issued a final response letter dated 26 October 2020. It said that based on the 
information provided at the time Mr O passed its lending checks. It said that it felt its checks 
were proportionate to the finance provided noting that it checked Mr Os credit report and the 
information he provided. It noted the time that had passed since the loan was provided and 
said that it no longer held Mr Os data.
Mr O re-sent his complaint to BPF in November 2020 providing evidence of his income from 
the time of the loan. BPF wrote to Mr O in March 2021, confirming its position as set out in 
its final response letter from October 2020.
Mr O engaged a professional representative (PR) which referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. The complaint that was referred covered a wide range of 
issues.
BPF responded to the information request from the Financial Ombudsman Service saying 
that Mr O had only raised a complaint in regard to the lending decision undertaken in 2013 
and that all other issues raised in the referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service would be 
dealt with separately. In regard to the lending decision, it said the complaint was raised more 
than six years after the loan was provided so it fell outside of the jurisdiction for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
regard to Mr Os complaint. He didnt think he had enough to suggest a court would reach 
the conclusion that the relationship between Mr O and the BPF was unfair. In regard to the 
lending decision, he said he hadnt seen enough to persuade him that the lending was 
unaffordable for Mr O.
The PR raised several points in response to our investigators view. It noted the evidence 
provided by Mr O of his earnings from the time which it said showed the loan to be 
unaffordable as the offer required an annual income of £60,000. It said that it was BPFs 
responsibility to show it had carried out adequate creditworthiness and affordability checks.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Mr Os original complaint was about the loan being provided irresponsibly and adequate 
affordability checks not taking place. This is the complaint that BPF investigated and 
provided a final response on. While further issues were raised as part of the referral to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service - and I note that our investigator went on to consider a 
potential claim under Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and whether a 
court might conclude that the relationship between Mr O and BPF was unfair - as this, and 
the other issues raised in the referral, werent part of the complaint that was investigated by 
BPF, and BPF has said these other complaint points will be dealt with separately, this 
decision only relates to the initial complaint that the loan was irresponsibly lent.
Mr O was provided with the loan in June 2013 to finance the acquisition of a holiday product. 
He raised his complaint in 2020, more than six years after the loan was provided. Because 
of this, BPF has said the complaint falls outside of the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
The rules about the complaints we can consider are known as the DISP rules and these can 
be found in the FCAs Handbook. DISP 2.8.2 provides (unless the failure to comply with the 
time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if 
a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Im satisfied the decision to lend here was made at the Time of Sale in 2013. I cant 
reasonably find that this part of Mr Os complaint was brought to us within the six-year period 
set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R above so Ive gone on to consider the second limb of 
DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr O knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for 
complaint - to see if this extended the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b). The PR has said that 
Mr O became aware of his cause for complaint following a subject access request in 2020. 
So, in this case, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied he brought this 
complaint to us within three years of that and Ive gone on to consider this part of his 
complaint.
I can see from the letter dated 13 June 2013 that the offer of finance is made on the basis 
that Mr Os income is verified at £60,000 a year. Mr O has provided copies of his P60 end of 
year certificates for the tax years surrounding the lending. These show an annual income of 
around £53,000. I havent seen evidence from BPF that it carried out an income assessment 
or validation and I havent seen the credit search results from the time, so I cannot say that 
adequate checks were undertaken before the loan was provided.
However, even if I do not find that sufficient checks were undertaken at the time the loan 
was provided, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that had such 
checks occurred they would have shown the lending to have been unaffordable to Mr O.
In this case the loan required Mr O to make monthly repayments of around £164. The loan 
offer notes the verification of an income of £60,000 but it isnt clear that had the income been 
below this the loan wouldnt have been provided. Mr Os P60s show his income at the Time of Sale, which would give a monthly net income of over £3,100. Considering the repayment 
amounts, I do not find I can say that based on this information alone the loan should have 
appeared unaffordable.
In order to fully assess the affordability of the loan I would need to see evidence that Mr Os 
expenditure at the time was such that the loan repayments werent affordable. And that it 
would have been reasonable that had adequate checks been undertaken, BPF would have 
been aware of this.
As I havent seen information to show that the loan was unaffordable to Mr O at the time it 
was provided, I do not find that I have sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
The PR responded to my provisional decision. It said that my provisional decision set out 
that adequate checks may not have been undertaken and that Mr O agreed with this. 
However, the PR didnt agree that we needed to be satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable, regardless of whether the necessary checks had been undertaken. The PR 
said the onus of affordability should not be on Mr O to discharge.
In regard to affordability, information was provided about Mr Os mortgage payments and his 
accounts from the time. The PR said that Mr Os statements showed that his outgoings 
exceeded his income. It said that Mr Os precarious income position led him to work to pay 
off the loan as quickly as possible. The PR further noted that Mr O was on the cusp of 
retiring when the loan was provided to him, and that he retired within 24 months of being 
granted the loan. 
The PR noted that additional to the monthly loan repayments, Mr O also had to pay 
maintenance fees every year. It said these were paid in full up until 2019 after which no 
payments were made, consistent with Mr O raising concerns about the lawfulness of the 
arrangements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Mr Os complaint is that adequate affordability checks werent undertaken before he was 
provided with the loan by BPF to finance the purchase of a holiday product. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I was satisfied this was a complaint I could consider and my 
reasons for not upholding the complaint.
I note the information provided in response to my provisional decision, but this doesnt 
change my conclusions for the following reasons.
Adequate checks
I set out in my provisional decision that I couldnt say that adequate checks had taken place 
before the loan was provided to Mr O. I agree this means that BPF might not have followed the regulatory requirements in place at the time. However, for me to say that this resulted in 
any material detriment to Mr O I would need to be able to say that had the adequate checks 
taken place then BPF should have realised the lending was unaffordable. So, while I 
understand that the PR has said the lack of proof of adequate checks should be the 
conclusion, I do not find that I can say any further action is required by BPF unless the 
second part of the test - that it is that adequate checks would have shown the lending to 
have been unaffordable  is also true.
Would adequate checks have shown the lending to have been unaffordable? 
Mr O provided information as part of his initial complaint which showed his annual income 
around the Time of Sale being around £53,000. This would give net monthly income of 
around £3,100. 
Information was provided in response to my provisional decision in the form of an annual 
mortgage statement and some bank account statements. The PR said that at the Time of 
Sale, Mr O was paying around £500 towards his mortgage. I have looked at the mortgage 
statement and this shows monthly payments of £150. An overview of a joint account does 
show that for the period 2 May 2013 to 8 July 2013 a higher amount was paid out of the 
account than was received. However, I do not have the details of the transactions into and 
out of the account so I cannot say whether Mr Os committed expenses at the time were 
such that these would suggest the loan was unaffordable. A further account statement has 
been provided for June 2013. This shows some committed expenses but not enough to say 
that based on a monthly income of around £3,100 (and even accepting mortgage payments 
of £500) that the monthly loan repayments of around £164 (and including additional ongoing 
maintenance costs) would be unaffordable. 
The PR has noted that the account for which the June transactions are shown also had 
outgoing higher than the income. However, the statement includes a standing order to 
Mr and Mrs O of over £1,000 and a transfer to another account of over £2,000. So, while 
these payments may in part have been used to pay committed costs, I do not have the 
evidence to show this and so, on balance, I do not find I can say that had further checks 
taken place by BPF then it should have realised the agreement was unaffordable at the Time 
of Sale.
I note the comment about Mr Os age at the Time of Sale and that he retired within two years 
while the loan was repayable over 10 years. I agree that when checking the affordability of 
lending factors such as known changes in income should be considered. However, in this 
case, I have nothing to show that had the question been asked about Mr Os income and 
expenses for the duration of the agreement that this would have shown the agreement to 
have been unaffordable.
Conclusion
I appreciate the additional information provided in response to my provisional decision, but I 
do not find that this shows that further checks would have meant the agreement would have 
been considered unaffordable. Because of this, my conclusion hasnt changed and I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman