DRN-3784362
The complaint
Mrs L says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has treated her unfairly in 
relation to a transaction on her credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs L used her Barclays credit card to make payment for flights using a 
website. She went through the process of purchasing tickets for herself and her husband to 
fly long distance (the tickets were almost £2000). On receiving the email confirmation she 
saw that one of her husbands names had been included in her name for her ticket. She 
called the website who told her the name change would cost 90 Euros. But Mrs L said shed 
not made a mistake so she didnt see why she should pay, so she refused to do so.
A couple of days later the website says Mrs L completed its cancellation form online. So it 
refunded her what it was obliged to under the contract, which was approximately £380. But 
Mrs L wanted a full refund. So she took her complaint to Barclays when shed reached 
deadlock with the website.
Barclays considered what happened. It acknowledged it had made mistakes in dealing with 
Mrs L but also tried to resolve the matter offering Mrs L the amount to do the name change 
(90 Euro equivalent but in Sterling). In the end Barclays says its credited Mrs L with £200 
and a further £24 in interest. And having considered the merits of the dispute between Mrs L 
and the website it didnt think it had to do more under either Chargeback or Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. So Mrs L brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator concluded there was insufficient persuasive evidence to show that the 
website was responsible for what had happened. So he felt Barclays didnt have to do 
anymore. And Mrs L remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L used her Barclays credit card to pay for the flights. This meant that if certain criteria 
are met Barclays can have certain responsibilities to Mrs L which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain 
circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs L to hold Barclays liable for 
breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In 
essence Barclays can be held responsible for a like claim against the Website. But Barclays 
is only responsible here for breaches of contract or misrepresentation by the website. It isnt 
responsible for other things the website do such as the customer service it provides.
Also Mrs Ls Barclays credit card is part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Barclays a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as 
the Website, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers. and it 
is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without Barclays having done 
anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Barclays and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mrs L fairly. This decision isnt about the website, 
which isnt within this Services remit for complaints about Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
important distinction is clear.
Lastly it is clear that not all the evidence in this case that I would like is available. 
Accordingly I must apply the civil test in deciding what happened, namely the balance of 
probabilities, or what is more likely than not to have happened.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mrs L doesnt dispute the amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself or 
that she authorised it. So I dont think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the 
basis Mrs L didnt properly authorise the payment transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Barclays considered chargeback here but didnt pursue it to the end of the chargeback 
process. It says it considered the matter and noted the websites defence to the matter. It 
noted that the website had shown that the process is completely automated from its end. So 
there was no opportunity for human error at its side of the process. It has checked its 
records and those of an associated website that Mrs L had progressed through before she 
made the booking. It says that both it and the other websites records show that theyd 
received the name as printed on the email confirmation and on the tickets, that is an 
amalgam of hers and her husbands name. The website also said that the refund it 
processed was in line with the agreed terms and conditions. So there was nothing else for it 
to pay back.
So Barclays says, having considered the evidence, it didnt take a chargeback further 
because it felt that such a chargeback would not have a reasonable prospect of success as 
there was insufficient persuasive evidence to show that the website had done anything 
wrong.
Mrs L has said throughout that she didnt make a mistake with her and her husbands name. 
But I note that what she said on the matter in her original comments to this service give an 
insight into a possible answer to what happened. In her written comments she said originally:
I put my husbands name first (gives husbands name) and his details and I did so it 
disappeared from my screen, ready for my details. I filled in my name (gives name) and once 
more my details disappeared and then the cost appeared with a place to put the credit card 
details. 
Ive considered the websites current process and what this service knows about passenger 
information being entered on such websites and how such websites work (that is behind 
what is seen by the booking consumer). Such websites require the information on each page 
to be confirmed by either pressing a continue type button at each stage or giving the 
opportunity to confirm all information in one go prior to paying, or often both of these 
processes are part of the overall process to purchase tickets.What happened according to Mrs L isnt in line with what Id expect with such processes 
normally. And there could a number of reasons for this, including glitches at the websites 
end, or glitches with Mrs Ls computer or inadvertent pressing of commands on Mrs Ls 
computer. Ive considered what shes said, and Im not persuaded what shes said is 
particularly detailed as to what disappeared means in this context considering the normal 
type of processes such websites use. The Website has said that it and the other website 
have confirmed that the name that went on the ticket and booking confirmation was the 
name it received and that it was a fully automated service. It hasnt pointed to any issues 
with its functionality at its end. 
For me to conclude that Barclays has done something wrong here, which would make it fair 
for it pay, I would need to consider whether it did something wrong. I can see it offered to 
pay Mrs L the cost of the changing the name on the booking, which it didnt have to do. So I 
dont think it did anything wrong there. And it has taken the position that there is no 
persuasive evidence on balance that the website was at fault. And Barclays can only be held 
responsible if it has treated Mrs L unfairly, and Im not persuaded it has by concluding what it 
has. It maybe there was something wrong with Mrs Ls internet connection, or computer or 
router or indeed an inadvertent command being issued by Mrs L. Or possibly some other 
explanation. But there is no persuasive evidence that the Website were responsible for the 
error. And for Barclays to be responsible for this it had to have treated Mrs L unfairly 
considering the evidence available. And Im not persuaded it has. There is no persuasive 
evidence that it has made a mistake in its consideration of the matter. 
I must also note the majority of the financial loss here is not due to the wrong name being 
entered, as that was remediable by paying a small fee to the website as part of the agreed 
terms (small in terms of compared to the cost of the tickets) but because Mrs L decided to 
dispute the matter and not pay the correction fee. 
Mrs L said she didnt cancel the tickets. However I can see that a refund was processed. I 
can also see the Website explaining that Mrs L completed the refund application form on 09 
November and that she was told about the refund in an email of 12 November. And I can 
see persuasive evidence of both this email and the refund in the evidence that Barclays has 
provided. So on balance I think it likely Mrs L did complete the form for a refund. Particularly 
as Mrs L later says in an email to the website in January 2020 I was not prepared to accept 
a repayment of 423.26 Euros which was a complete insult and requested you resell my 
tickets and to give a full refund. Which shows to me that she wanted a refund and knew how 
much the refund was that the website says was due. Ive considered the terms and this 
refund amount is in line with those terms. And I can see a refund from the website on her 
statement in January 2020. So I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong by not 
refunding anything on top of this amount of refund. And Barclays isnt responsible for the 
decision to not pay the charge to change the name nor is it responsible for the decision to 
continue the dispute so as to the refund becoming payable and where such a limited refund 
is due.
So Ive seen no persuasive reason that the chargeback would have been successful had it 
continued to the end of the chargeback process. So I dont think Mrs L has lost out here as a 
result of Barclays consideration of chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. I think both the DCS arrangement is in place for the services provided by the 
website and the financial limits criteria are met also. So Barclays does have to consider 
whether there is a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation when considering the claim. And for Barclays to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be 
shown that the Website either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something 
to Mrs L which was untrue and that led to loss.
Having considered what happened here Ive seen no persuasive evidence of a breach of 
contract here. The website can charge for name changes and it offered this option. Mrs L 
wanted a refund and a refund was processed. And Ive seen evidence of the tickets it 
arranged so it provided the service agreed originally. So Im not persuaded there is a breach 
by the website that Barclays should remedy. And I note that Mrs Ls comments on the matter 
are about what went wrong rather than her being told something which she relied on which 
wasnt true and led to a loss. So I dont think Barclays should do anymore.
For completeness I shall turn to some of the arguments Mrs L has made. However I should 
note at this point that in all of Mrs Ls arguments shes not explained persuasively what 
Barclays has done wrong here in considering this particular dispute, and this complaint is 
solely about Barclays consideration on the matter.
Mrs L has said in her email to this service in September 2022 The most important fact is 
that I never cancelled the tickets..The money returned was not any sort of settlement but 
compensation for flights missed because connecting flights were late... If this was the case 
and she used the disputed tickets then she hasnt lost out. 
And if she didnt use the disputed tickets and they werent cancelled then shes not lost out 
either because she would, in essence, be a no show and there would be no refund due as 
the service was provided. So either way Barclays hasnt treated her unfairly. Similarly as Ive 
described I dont think it treated her unfairly on considering it likely that they were cancelled. 
Furthermore I should add that I can see the website emailed Mrs L in response to her 
complaint and says she was informed of the refund on 12 December, which is weeks before 
the flights being refunded were due to take place. Lastly Ive seen no evidence that the 
name on Mrs Ls ticket was changed, so it seems clear she couldnt have used it in any 
event.
Mrs L points to negative comment about the website online. This may well be the case, but it 
doesnt demonstrate that Barclays has done anything wrong. It considered this matter based 
on the evidence it gathered and was available on this matter, and I think it came to a fair 
conclusion here.
Mrs L says Barclays should protect her here. Barclays responsibility regarding this dispute is 
to consider her dispute with the website fairly. And I think it has. 
Mrs L says recently said that Barclays has acted against her, this didnt form part of this 
complaint, so Ive not considered it in this decision. But generally when consumers have 
credit card agreements they are obliged to make regular payments irrespective of any 
dispute they have with other parties. And if consumers dont pay then credit card companies 
have a number of options available to them under the agreed terms of the contract.
Mrs L points to other things the website is alleged to have done to other consumers. This 
services remit is only to consider the matters at hand in individual complaints about 
individual businesses within our remit. So here I can only consider what Barclays did.
Mrs L says that Barclays paid 90 Euros (the charge for name change to her account) and 
then debited it later. Barclays says it paid this money to enable Mrs L to make the name 
change. When it was clear she wasnt going to do this, it re-debited the account. Im not 
persuaded that this is unfair considering the circumstances.I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mrs L wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Ls avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that Barclays has done anything wrong in dealing with the 
issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund her.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mrs L has said, Im not persuaded 
Barclays has treated Mrs L unfairly. So I dont think Barclays has done anything else wrong 
here which requires further action. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mrs Ls 
complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman