DRN-4492865
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has not followed its code of 
practice in dealings with her as a vulnerable customer. She is unhappy with the language 
used by a member of Nationwides staff who wanted her to go through a statement again 
and the delay in reaching an arrangement about the debt on her account.
What happened
Ms H had a bank account with her ex-husband. She said that as a consequence of the 
abuse she suffered she was left with numerous debts. Ms H said her ex-husband would buy 
her things to make up for an affair, but this left debts on the account.
She said of her creditors, only Nationwide declined to write off debt left by her ex-husband 
and hasnt taken her situation or evidence seriously. Amongst other things, she said this has 
affected her credit score. Ms H said Nationwide had said it didn't have a department dealing 
with domestic abuse. And she thought the language used by a member of its staff about an 
abusive relationship had brought back her medical condition. She said Nationwide is forcing 
her to go over documents and statements she provided from when the account was opened. 
When Ms H raised her situation with Nationwide, she said Nationwide told her it was willing 
to reimburse her the money. She said Nationwide has given her £300 compensation in 
response to her complaint. She would like Nationwide to consider all of her evidence and 
write off the debt, close the account and if possible, amend her credit file.
In its response to Ms Hs complaint Nationwide apologised for not having established a 
single point of contact for Ms H as requested or for arranging a call as promised. It said a 
call had taken place on 21 February 2023, but this was months after Ms Hs request. 
Nationwide paid Ms H £300 compensation in recognition of its poor customer service. 
Nationwide said it had reviewed all of the transactions Ms H had highlighted and refunded 
some of the disputed transactions, but not all, as she had confirmed some of these were 
genuine. It said with Ms Hs consent, it had arranged for her to visit her local branch on 13 
March 2023 to go through the transaction history, but it hadnt heard from her since then. 
Ms H was dissatisfied with Nationwides response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said Nationwide hadnt 
acted fairly due to the delay in reaching a conclusion.
She said Ms H complained to Nationwide in 2022, having raised in 2018 the financial abuse 
and coercive control by her ex-husband and wanted transactions to be reimbursed. But 
Nationwide wouldnt refund transactions without more information that were transfers to Ms 
Hs children or rent and retail payments. One of our investigators considered the complaint in 
May 2022 and said Nationwide needed to know which payments were definitely not made by 
Ms H and which payments she made under pressure from her ex-husband. 
The present investigator understood why Nationwide needed this further information as 
these were payments that Ms H and her children would have had some benefit from and in 
some cases, it wasnt clear who made the transaction. She didnt think Nationwide acted 
unfairly in needing to ask for information although she recognised the anxiety and trauma for 
Ms H and suggested this might work if she had a representative to speak to Nationwide.
Ms H accepted our investigators outcome for her complaint in May 2022 and agreed to help 
Nationwide find a resolution. Our investigator contacted Nationwide to make arrangements 
and chased this up in October 2022. In February 2023 Ms H complained to Nationwide that it 
had not contacted her to discuss the transactions. This led to Nationwides offer of £300 
compensation (as above). Following a second review by senior managers in October 2023, 
Nationwide advised that it wouldnt refund the payments as it still wasnt able to ascertain 
that the transactions had been completed solely for the benefit of Ms Hs ex-husband.
Ms H was upset by this outcome and felt that Nationwide had wasted her time and that it 
was never going to consider a refund. She provided an impact statement and explained her 
circumstances. She said Nationwide's questioning has been insensitive and lacking 
empathy. Our investigator asked Nationwide to consider writing off the debt and it agreed to 
a total refund of £4,646.86 as a gesture of goodwill, which she said was fair. 
In view of the added stress of continually having to explain her circumstances and medical 
condition from May 2022, the investigator didnt think Nationwide had treated Ms H fairly. 
She recommended Nationwide pay a total of £600 compensation to Ms H. She said she 
couldnt award compensation for Nationwide not agreeing to refund the transactions as its 
reasons are fair and it wrote off the debt which is reasonable in all the circumstances.
Nationwide agreed with the investigators outcome, but Ms H did not and requested an 
ombudsman review her complaint. She said the compensation is not enough and is 
frustrated that this has lasted six years - not just from February 2023. She said she had to 
chase Nationwide to get a response, which showed it didnt care about her mental health or 
experience. She described Nationwides behaviour as controlling and coercive and didnt 
think it will learn not to dismiss survivors of economic abuse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H referred her previous complaint about Nationwide to our service and our investigator 
sent her outcome in May 2022, which Ms H accepted. Consequently, it is not open to me to 
review the events complained about up until May 2022. I have considered Ms Hs complaint 
since then and have looked at Nationwides actions (and inactions) and its communications 
to see if treated Ms H unfairly and to consider what the appropriate redress should be in all 
of the circumstances. The present complaint is also separate to Ms Hs complaint to 
Nationwide, via a claims management company, for a refund of her bank charges. 
As explained by the previous investigator in May 2022, and the present investigator last 
month it isnt fair for our service to tell Nationwide to refund payments where we cant show 
they were solely for her ex-husbands benefit. I can see that Nationwide reviewed the 
transactions with Ms Hs assistance and I was sorry to learn that this triggered a return of her 
previous trauma. However, I agree with the investigator this was necessary as Nationwide 
needed this further information to identify payments that Ms H and her children would have 
had some benefit from and those where it wasnt clear who made the transaction. 
I have considered Nationwides reasons for not agreeing to refund the transactions in 
question and I think these are related to its concerns about identification and beneficiaries 
set out above and are fair. It follows that I dont award compensation for Nationwide not 
agreeing to refund the transactions. 
Notwithstanding the transactions, Nationwide has now agreed to write off Ms Hs accounts 
debts to the tune of £4,646.86. Nationwides write off represents all the debt on two current 
accounts and Ms Hs credit card. I think this represents a very fair response to Ms Hs 
circumstances and complaint and I dont think it would be fair or necessary to require 
Nationwide to do anything further concerning Ms Hs accounts. I have considered the customer service provided by Nationwide and in particular the delays 
and lack of assistance it provided to Ms H. Ms H was willing to discuss her circumstances, 
despite the distress this would cause, but Nationwide only made contact in February 2023, 
once she wrote to Nationwides CEO expressing her concerns. This represents a delay of 
nine months from when our investigator tried to make contact arrangement between the 
parties. 
Nationwide provides an outline of financial abuse advice on its website and Ms Hs 
circumstances fall within the descriptions given. However, its clear that Nationwides actions 
fell short on the reasonable level of care and assistance it should provide in line with its 
policy and in Ms Hs circumstances. The one-to-one support recommended by our 
investigator and required to help Ms H simply didnt materialise. However, I havent seen any 
evidence to show that Nationwide's questioning of the transactions has been insensitive and 
lacking empathy towards Ms H. However, I can well understand it would cause her the 
flashbacks she described, and Ive considered the evidence she has provided about the 
financial abuse and the ongoing impact that this has had on her mental health.
Ms H said Nationwides conduct has echoes of her ex-husbands conduct in its requirement 
to go through her bank statements to identify transactions made as a consequence of 
economic abuse, only to be told this wasnt evidence. 
I have set out above the mistakes and poor service that Nationwide has provided but I dont 
agree with Ms H that it has continued the coercive behaviour that her ex-husband exercised 
upon her. And I dont understand Ms Hs point that the investigators proposed resolution to 
her complaint just allows Nationwide to get away with it. Nationwide has written off her debt 
at the investigators invitation, and if Ms H accepts this decision Nationwide will need to pay 
her a total of £600 compensation. 
It is worth noting that we do not award compensation as a means of penalising a business or 
to ensure that it learns from the experience, as Ms H has said it should. But we do expect a 
business to take note of our findings and learn from complaints in the service it provides.
Nationwide apologised to Ms H for the delay and paid her £300 compensation. Ms H is a 
vulnerable consumer and the delay in considering a resolution to her financial situation has 
impacted her mental health and the assistance she has sought with this. I agree with the 
investigator that Nationwides poor service and delays should be reflected in compensation 
totaling £600 as a fair and reasonable way to put right the effects of its poor service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms H further compensation of £300, bringing a total 
compensation of £600 in respect of the distress and inconvenience she has been caused 
since May 2022.
Nationwide Building Society should notify the debt repayment plan that the debt has now 
been written off and confirm this in writing with Ms H when this has been completed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman