DRN-4234912
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) placed a freeze on his account 
after he attempted to transfer money out of his account.
Mr S says that he went to a Santander Branch and spoke to staff a number of times to get 
his account unblocked. Mr S says that Santander took an unreasonable amount of time in 
which to do so. During this time Mr S says that he was unable to make any payments from 
his account.
What happened
On 8 April 2023, Santander blocked Mr Ss account while it carried out a review of his 
account, following an attempt by Mr S to transfer a lump sum of money from his account. 
Santander didnt give details about why exactly it had blocked Mr Ss account, other than to 
say that its automated fraud detection system had flagged the account to be reviewed for 
additional security checks.
Looking through Mr Ss summary of the communication he had with Santander, I can see 
that he spoke to Santander a number of times; went through its scam questionnaire a 
number of times; and also visited a couple of Santander branches to get the freeze placed 
on his account lifted. Eventually, Santander removed the block from Mr Ss account on 30 
April 2023.
Santander issued a final response letter on 14 April 2023 and explained that the account 
block was automatically applied on 8 April 2023 and the security review was considered by 
its back-office team on 11 April 2023, but it was unable to get in contact with Mr S on 12 
April 2023 to discuss the matter further. Santander said that it did manage to speak with Mr 
S on 13 April 2023, but after this, when it tried calling Mr S back, it was unable to reach him 
again. 
After he referred his complaint to our service, Santander explained that it wasnt at fault for 
applying the block to Mr Ss account as it was applied as a precaution to protect both Mr S 
and Santander from fraud. Santander did however acknowledge that there was an 
unreasonable delay in reviewing Mr Ss account and lifting the block. Santander said it had 
initially offered to pay Mr S £100, but said it was willing to increase the amount of 
compensation by a further £150, bringing the total amount to £250  to better reflect the 
impact this matter had on Mr S. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and she thought that the amount Santander had 
offered to settle the complaint was reasonable. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that has been provided by Mr S and Santander, I think that the 
increased amount of compensation that Santander offered after he referred his complaint to 
this service is reasonable in the circumstances. I also think that, as Mr S was deprived of 
having the benefit of his money for an unreasonable amount of time, Santander should also 
pay Mr S compensatory interest - which I have explained below.
In our complaint form, Mr S has said that his complaint is not about Santander freezing the 
suspected transaction, but is about Santanders subsequent refusal to process any 
payments or to remove the block on his account despite asking for it to be.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. Santanders ability to do this is also reflected in its 
general terms and conditions which say:
Blocking access to your account 
We can block or withdraw your cards, chequebooks or personal security details. We can 
also block your access to your account, including Online Banking, Mobile Banking and 
Telephone Banking. We may do this in the following situations, where we think its 
reasonable. 
We have concerns about the security of your account. 
We suspect your account, card or services may be used in an unauthorised or 
fraudulent way. This may happen, for example, if there are too many 
unsuccessful attempts to login to Online Banking or use a PIN. 
There is a significantly increased risk you wont be able to repay any money you 
owe us. 
You havent provided us with information that weve reasonably asked for. 
Allowing you to access your account might cause us to break or not follow any 
law, regulation, court order, code or other duty that applies to us. Or allowing you 
to do this might mean we or another member of our group could face action or 
censure by a regulator, government, or law enforcement body in any jurisdiction.
So it is the case that Santander is able to block an account holder from accessing their 
accounts for a variety of reasons - and not just if it is requested to by the National Crime 
Agency, as Mr S believes. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that Santander was 
acting incorrectly or unfairly if it blocked Mr Ss account, whilst it investigated the payment 
that was flagged as suspicious by its automatic fraud detection system.
Nevertheless, the issue as I see it in this case is not that Santander applied the block, but 
more that it took an unreasonable amount of time in which to remove the block from Mr Ss 
account. And this delay led to Mr S not being able to pay for various things in that time.
Overall, I have some sympathy with Mr S on this point. Mr S didnt have access to his 
account for a period of time. And it seems he did try and get matters resolved by speaking 
with Santander a number of times, completing a questionnaire a number of times and visiting 
branch. I understand that Mr S had to borrow money from friends to make payments in this 
time.
However, Im mindful, when weighing everything up, that there will always be an element of 
unavoidable frustration and inconvenience when an account is blocked for a security review. 
Im also mindful that an element of the delay was because Santander had tried to call Mr S 
to discuss the matter further a number of times, but was unable to reach him.Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im fully aware that Mr S feels that a 
higher award of compensation is merited here. But taking everything into consideration, I 
think that Santanders offer to pay a further £150, to bring the total amount of compensation 
to £250, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
However, as well as making an award for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S, I 
also note that Mr S mentioned missing out on receiving interest on the money he wanted to 
transfer from his account. 
Although Ive not seen evidence of what interest rate Mr S couldve received on the money, I 
do accept that Mr S was deprived of having access to the money in his account for an 
unreasonable amount of time. So I think that Santander should pay Mr S 8% simple annual 
interest (less deductible tax) on the account balance, to reflect this. I think its fair that this 
should cover the period from when the block shouldve been removed by - which seems to 
have been 11 April 2023, until when the block was removed - which was on 30 April 2023.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr S a further £150, so as to bring 
the total amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £250.
I also require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr S 8% simple annual interest, less any deductible 
tax, on the account balance (of the blocked account) - covering the period from 11 April 2023 
to 30 April 2023. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc 
to do what I have outlined above to put matters right, in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman