DRN-2117365
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the poor service provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc and its garage 
after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy following an accident. 
What happened
Mrs Ks car was damaged whilst in a car park on 17 October 2019. AXA instructed its 
approved garage the next day when the accident was reported to it. Mrs K supplied photos 
of the car to the garage, but she says she had to chase it (and also AXA) for any further 
contact. She says she got no reply from either of them to her communications, and the 
damaged car remained at her home. 
As she had decided the car wasnt safe to drive, Mrs K thought the garage should have 
collected it straight away, so she could have a courtesy car. As it didnt, and she required 
transport, she decided to sell the unrepaired car at a loss. She reported the sale to her 
broker on 6 November 2019, 19 days after the accident was reported to AXA. The broker 
informed AXA and advised it that Mrs K wanted to make a complaint about AXAs service.
AXA didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint, so she asked us to review it. One of our investigators 
considered the evidence and noted that Mrs K believed AXA had discriminated against her 
on racial grounds. Mrs K said she was treated less favourably due to her race because of 
the way her claim was dealt with and because AXA failed to respond to her communications.  
The investigator didnt think there was any evidence of that, and in her opinion, AXA had 
acted reasonably in dealing with the claim. 
The investigator said the garage had provided a record of the dates on which it had 
contacted Mrs K, which showed it was moving forward with the repairs. She said the 
evidence wed seen of Mrs K contacting AXA and the broker about the claim was all after the 
car was sold. She noted that Mrs K felt the car was unsafe to drive, but that the policy only 
provided for a courtesy car when a consumers car was in the garage for repair. And she 
said AXA hadnt ignored Mrs Ks complaint, as Mrs K had suggested.
  
Mrs K said shed copied to us all the correspondence shed sent to AXA, to the garage and 
to her broker. She said it wasnt all sent after shed sold the car. She said wed failed to take 
it into account - or to deal with her complaint against the broker. She said as the repairs 
werent done and her correspondence was ignored by AXA, she had no choice but to believe 
she was being discriminated against. The investigator said the complaint Mrs K had made to 
us was about AXA, not the broker. She asked Mrs K to tell us when shed sent us the details 
she said wed missed - or to send them to us again - but Mrs K didnt do so. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks husband drove the car home after the accident. The call recording shows that he 
told AXA it was driveable  and didnt say there was a need for a replacement car  although 
he did say that they wouldnt be driving the damaged car again until it was repaired. Some 
consumers may choose not to drive a car after it has been in an accident, but that doesnt 
mean their repairs become a priority. And consumers can often manage without using a car 
for a short time or may not need a replacement car. It was only later on that Mrs K said she 
felt the car wasnt driveable and that she needed other transport immediately.  
Although Mrs K felt strongly that the car couldnt be driven, I dont think shes provided 
anything to show that it wasnt safe to drive. And theres no evidence that she contacted 
AXA or the garage to say she needed alternative transport so badly that shed very soon 
have to sell the car at a loss. I think that means Mrs K hasnt shown AXA was given a 
chance to even consider the situation she thought she was in when the car wasnt taken in 
for repair immediately and advise her of options.  
In my opinion, from AXAs perspective the car didnt need urgent attention, as Mrs Ks 
husband had said it was driveable. The garage made a note on 18 October 2019 that the car 
wasnt drivable, although that doesnt reflect what Mrs Ks husband had told AXA and it 
wasnt what AXA recorded on its system. Mrs K says the garage eventually asked her to 
provide images of the damage so it could be assessed. But in fact it did so straight away, on 
the day after the accident. Its notes suggest that she didnt supply them for a week. As Mrs K 
insisted that shed sent them to the garage immediately, the investigator asked her for 
evidence of that, in order to resolve the dispute - but Mrs K hasnt provided it. 
 
Regardless of when the images Mrs K uploaded were received by the garage, it seems they 
didnt give it cause for concern about the cars safety. Otherwise I think its far more likely 
than not that it would have updated AXA at that point and would have tried to book the car in 
as a priority. And in the absence of evidence that Mrs K contacted the garage or AXA to say 
the car couldnt be driven safely and that she needed transport urgently, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that it took two weeks after the images were seen by the garage for it to book 
the car in for the repairs. Even if the car hadnt been drivable, the garage still had to fit the 
work in with the other repairs it was dealing with. But AXA had been told the car was 
driveable - and the images the garage reviewed didnt make a difference to its approach. 
If Mrs K thought the garage was moving too slowly, I think it would have been reasonable for 
her to have contacted it - or AXA - to query progress or to make a complaint. She says she 
did, but thats disputed. Mrs K hasnt shown that she made any contact with AXA or the 
garage before making the huge decision to sell the car at a loss. The investigator asked her 
several times to provide details of all the communication she had with AXA and the garage 
(including copies of the records of any calls she made) but Mrs K didnt do so. 
   
Its standard industry practice not to get a courtesy car until a consumers damaged car goes 
into a garage for repair  and thats what the policy provided for. Its not unusual for a garage 
not to be able to start repairs straight away, even if a car is badly damaged. And theres no 
point in collecting a car until it can be worked on  especially if its at a consumers home. 
The records show that just a couple of hours after the garage left a message for Mrs K to 
say the car was booked in for repair (at which point she would have been given a courtesy 
car) she called the broker to say shed already sold it. 
Mrs K hasnt provided any evidence of the sale, so we dont know exactly what sum the car 
was sold for or exactly when it was sold. But the transaction was within three weeks of AXA 
first being told about the claim and within two weeks of the garage first seeing the images of 
the damage. I dont think most consumers would have sold a car within such a short period, 
especially when that meant making a loss of several thousand pounds. There were other 
options available, such as hiring a car, that would have saved Mrs K a great deal of money. In my opinion, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require AXA to pay for any loss Mrs K 
sustained in selling the car in its unrepaired state. Thats not only because she could have 
avoided selling it, but also because I dont think shes shown that her own car wasnt 
driveable, and that AXA knew about it and should have acted differently. I dont think it would 
be fair to require it to pay Mrs K compensation for delay either, as I dont think theres 
evidence that AXA or the garage caused any undue delay.  
 
In my opinion, Mrs K hasnt shown that AXA or its garage treated her any less favourably 
than it would have treated anyone else in similar circumstances. I dont think the repairs 
would have been arranged any quicker - or her claim handled any differently - regardless of 
her racial characteristics. 
I know Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that 
someone who is independent has reviewed the evidence impartially. Mrs K has been 
advised already that any complaint about her broker will be dealt with separately. Shes also 
been advised that any other complaint she may have about AXA (such as its decision not to 
renew her insurance) will have to be raised with AXA before we can consider it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman