DRN-3716097
The complaint
Ms C complains about Uinsure Limiteds (Uinsure) handling of her landlord insurance policy 
renewal.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so below is a 
summary of the key points.
Ms C purchased a landlord buildings and contents insurance policy through a broker 
 Uinsure. She received a renewal quote for this policy that was significantly higher 
than the previous year. Ms C contacted Uinsure to question why this had happened. 
Ms C says she wasnt provided with answers to her questions but was offered an 
alternative policy which cost less than the previous year which she accepted.
Ms C complained to Uinsure that it had tried to rip her off by offering her a more 
expensive policy when a cheaper one was available to her. 
Uinsure didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. It said shed been given sufficient time to 
review the renewal quote before any payment was taken and on receipt of her call 
Uinsure found her a policy at a lower premium. So it didnt think shed suffered any 
detriment. Ms C brought her complaint to this service. 
The investigator considered the complaint but had limited information when doing so 
as Uinsure didnt respond to requests for its file.
On balance of the information available, the investigator accepted a mistake had 
been made by Uinsure during the renewal process and so considered the impact this 
had on Ms C. 
They found Ms C had spent time on the phone sorting the matter and said shed 
received a poor customer service. So they awarded £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms C disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uinsure is a broker. On its website it says it works with leading insurers all competing 
to deliver the best price for the client.
So its not unreasonable that Ms C most likely expected that upon renewal, Uinsure 
would present her with the best priced policy from one of these insurers that met her 
needs. But on balance of what Ive seen, this doesnt seem to have happened.
I say this because when Ms C called Uinsure to query the higher premium policy she 
was being offered at renewal; she was immediately able to get an alternative policy 
through Uinsure priced at a significantly lower amount.
So its understandable Ms C is questioning why this cheaper policy wasnt presented 
to her in the first instance and her trust in Uinsure and its practices have been 
affected as a result.
Uinsure hasnt provided an explanation for this to either Ms C or this Service. I have 
to therefore base my decision on balance of the limited information that is available in 
this case.
From what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not an error occurred during 
Uinsures handling of Ms Cs renewal, resulting in her initially receiving a policy 
priced significantly higher than what seemed to be available. 
Without a response from Uinsure, I dont know why this happened, but I can still 
consider the impact this had on Ms C to decide this complaint.
I understand Ms C immediately contacted Uinsure on receipt of the renewal letter 
and spent around an hour on the phone with it before Uinsure offered her a policy at 
a price she deemed to be reasonable and accepted.
So while it was inconvenient this wasnt offered in the first instance and without her 
having to call, it was rectified relatively quickly and Ms C now has a policy that shes 
satisfied with. And no payments for the higher premium were ever taken.
So the detriment I can see in this case is the time Ms C had to spend on the phone 
dealing with what she says was poor customer service and also the initial shock of a 
significant increase to her premiums. 
Im satisfied £50 compensation fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience 
Ms C says this caused. So this is what I direct Uinsure to pay to Ms C.
Ive considered all of Ms Cs comments including the points that Uinsure has failed to 
provide an explanation for its actions and that £50 compensation is not an incentive 
for them to comply with regulatory rules. 
While its disappointing Uinsure hasnt responded to us, Im satisfied Ive still been 
able to fairly consider the case on balance of the information that is available, which 
is within my power to do given the informal nature of our role.
Awards for compensation made by this service are not intended to punish or fine a 
business. Thats not our role as has been previously explained to Ms C.
The award Im making in this case takes into consideration any detriment caused to 
Ms C because of Uinsures actions and the impact this had on her. And for the 
reasons explained above I think £50 compensation for this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Uinsure Limited to pay Ms C £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman