DRN-3259008
The complaint
Ms T complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly transferred funds to her trustees in 
bankruptcy when requested to do so.
Ms T is being represented. All references to Ms T will include submissions made by her 
representative. I should also note that the trustee in bankruptcy, who is now the Official 
Receiver, has given consent for our service to look into this complaint
What happened
I set out the background to this case in my provisional decision issued on 14 December 
2021, so I wont repeat that again here. Santander didnt respond. In summary, Ms T made 
the following points:
Santander was made fully aware before the £40,000 was transferred to the trustees 
in bankruptcy, that the basis on which they were appointed, was fraudulent; 
She reiterated her previous points about the County Court not being authorised to 
make the bankruptcy order, so this meant Santander had acted incorrectly based on 
the Courts order; 
She wanted Santanders fraud team to carry out an investigation into the matter;
She didnt think Santander had met its legal duty in terms of its checks made prior to 
making the payment to the trustees.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, its clear to me that Ms T through her representative has 
strong feelings about this complaint and I appreciate she is in a difficult position. She has 
provided detailed arguments to support her case, which I can confirm Ive read and carefully 
considered. However, I trust that Ms T and her representative will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, 
but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Whilst Ive taken into account the further comments made by Ms T, I cant see that shes 
said anything different from her previous submissions to this service which I fully considered 
in my provisional decision. So, Im not upholding this complaint. I set out the reasons for this 
outcome in detail in my provisional decision, so I will summarise my reasoning which is as 
follows: 
I cant consider the complaints that Ms T made to Santander in April 2019 as these 
had been brought to our service outside of the six month referral period. Santander 
issued final response letters to Ms T dated 16 and 25 April 2019. And as she didnt 
bring the complaints to our service until 30 November 2020, these matters have been 
brought too late. 
I can consider the complaint about the transfer of monies to the joint trustees of 
£40,000, who Ill refer to as S, which happened in March 2020. Ms T says 
Santander were wrong to transfer £40,000 to S because there was no legal basis to 
do so. But from what I can see Santander has acted on a document issued by a 
County Court. I know Ms T questions the Courts authority and/ or the authority of S 
to act as trustees but Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Santander acted 
incorrectly when it transferred funds to S.
In a letter dated 16 April 2019, S sent Santander notice of its appointment. A 
certificate of appointment dated 9 April 2019 was sent along with a copy of the 
bankruptcy order. Ss appointment was made on behalf of the Secretary of State of 
the relevant government department. Section 306 of the Insolvency Act makes it 
clear that the bankrupts estate which comprises of most assets including cash (see 
Section 283) vests in the trustee in bankruptcy. So, in light of the information it was 
provided with, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably or unfairly when it 
transferred £40,000 to S.
Ms T says Santander failed in its duty of care. She quotes Quincecare Duty in 
support of this. However, Ive seen nothing in this case which would show Santander 
had reasonable grounds for believing there was an attempt to falsely take funds from 
Ms Ts account by S. As Ive said, there was a Court order which showed Ms T had 
been subject to a bankruptcy order. This was also a matter of public record, which I 
can see Santander did check.
I note that Ms Ts accounts are still frozen. The Official Receiver, who is now the 
trustee, has confirmed that she (Ms T) is still subject to a bankruptcy order. Ms T may 
wish to contact the trustee about this matter but as far as Santander is concerned, I 
dont think its actions in continuing to freeze Ms Ts accounts, are unreasonable 
given the current status of her bankruptcy order. I note that she does have access to 
a basic account, so I dont think Santander has to do anything further.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding Ms Ts complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman