DRN-3025206
The complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of F, a limited company, that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) 
didnt refund the fees paid for a buildings warranty he bought from its appointed 
representative.
What happened
Mr D was the director of a property development company that I will refer to as F. In 2016, F 
bought a ten-year warranty for a property it built. It bought the warranty through BCRs 
appointed representative that I will refer to as C. The policy was underwritten by an insurer 
that I will refer to as A.
In May 2018, A ceased trading and was declared bankrupt. And in August that year all 
warranties it had issued were terminated. 
F contacted the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), who had agreed to 
refund As policyholders premiums. F received a refund of around £2,500. However it paid 
£8,895 to C for the warranty. F contacted C to ask why it hadnt received the full amount.
C responded and provided a breakdown of the total F paid, which was as follows: 
Insurance Premium: £2,400.00
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT): £144.00
C Fees: £6,351.00 (incl. Membership fee)
Total Invoice: £8,895
It said the FSCS is only required to refund the premium and IPT, which is what F had 
received. The rest was fees for Cs services, so wasnt refundable.
F didnt think this was fair. It said when it bought the warranty the invoice had said that 
£8,500 was for structural insurance. So it had assumed the full amount was for the 
premiums. And it didnt think it was fair C werent refunding the fees. So F brought its 
complaint to this service.
When we contacted BCR about the complaint, it said it didnt think this service had the 
authority to look into it. It said both it and C were acting as agents of A. And the activities C 
carried out werent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So didnt fall into our 
jurisdiction. 
Our investigator thought we did have the authority to look into the complaint. She said she 
was satisfied that C was working as an appointed representative of BCR and that it was 
carrying out regulated activities.
In relation to the merits of the complaint, our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
said the fees F paid to C were for the arrangement of the policy. And as this was activated, 
she was satisfied C carried out the duties it had been paid for. 
F didnt agree. It said it wouldnt have bought the policy if it had known such a high 
proportion of the cost was fees. It asked for its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction 
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like it. 
It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Ive considered this, and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find: 
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO) 
or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); 
or (b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and 
(c) the activities were ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them. 
So I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
I will therefore proceed to consider the merits of Fs complaint. 
Fs complaint
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt.
Here, F says that it hadnt been made aware that a large proportion of the £8,500 it paid for 
the warranty was made up of fees for Cs services. It says C should refund this part of the 
cost. It also says it wouldnt have bought the warranty if it had been aware of this. 
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right.
I understand Fs is frustration as it only received a refund of the policy premiums from the 
FSCS which amounted to around £2,500. Which is a small proportion of the total amount it 
paid C for the warranty. 
The rest of the cost was for Cs services and went directly to C. These included the 
necessary site inspections and surveys. These were an essential part of arranging a warranty with A and were required in order for the warranty to be activated. 
The collapse of A caused its policyholders, including F, a great deal of inconvenience and 
financial loss. However C wasnt responsible for A collapsing. F paid for C to arrange a 
warranty and agreed to the cost of this. And C arranged the warranty as agreed. So I cant 
say C did anything wrong here as it carried out the actions it had been paid to do. Therefore 
it wouldnt be fair to ask C to refund the fees paid.
Ive also considered what F has said about not being made aware of the breakdown of the 
cost C charged at the time it bought the warranty. However I dont think its likely that F 
would have acted any differently if it had known Cs fees made up a high proportion of the 
cost.
When F bought the warranty, it knew the total cost was £8,500 plus the membership fee. 
And it agreed to this cost. So its fair to assume this meant F was happy to pay this amount 
for the warranty to be in place. F says that if it had known the proportion of the cost that was 
made up of fees, it would have shopped around and got a better price. But if the breakdown 
of the cost was something F was concerned about, I would have expected it to ask for this at 
the point of sale. Particularly as a property development business, with experience of 
warranties. 
The issue around the proportion of the cost attributed to Cs fees has only become important 
since A collapsed  as this is now the only refund available to F. So while I understand it will 
have been frustrating to find out that a large proportion of the cost paid was for Cs fees, I 
dont think its likely it would have made any difference to Fs choice if it had been provided 
with a full breakdown at the time it bought the warranty. 
For these reasons I dont think C has done anything wrong, so I cant say it has acted 
unfairly by not refunding the fees paid.
I understand F has had cause for a claim since A collapsed. It may wish to contact As 
liquidators to seek to validate this claim, as valid claims may be considered for a refund by 
the FSCS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Fs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
F, to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman