DRN-4107713
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim and cancel their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. 
Mrs B and Mr B had a home insurance policy underwritten by Admiral which covered their 
home and its contents.
They made a claim after Mr B said he accidentally spilled paint on furniture and a carpet 
from a paint tray whilst he was decorating.
Admiral appointed loss adjusters and commissioned a report from an expert. The expert said 
the paint splashes on the furniture and carpet werent compatible with Mr Bs version of how 
the accident had happened and/or with a single spillage of paint from a paint tray. 
Mr B had added accidental damage cover to his existing policy seven days for before the 
alleged accident.
Admiral declined the claim, cancelled the policy and recorded the claim as fraudulent.
Mrs B and Mr B complained to Admiral about this, but they maintained their stance. So, 
Mrs B and Mr B brough their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. 
Mrs B and Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral have investigated the claim fully, as they were entitled to do. Both the expert and the 
loss adjuster have advised that the pattern of paint spillage is not compatible with Mr Bs 
explanation of what happened.
The expert report in particular goes into detail about the spillage and provides photographs 
of it. The report is cogent, credible and persuasive.
It says that there are multiple spillages across the room  spreading to different parts of two 
pieces of furniture and to the carpet. Mr B says he had a paint tray in his hand when he 
tripped. The number of different spillages doesnt square with this version of events.
The report goes on to say that the paint on the carpet is underneath where Mr B said the 
furniture was at the time. Its very difficult to see how the paint could have got underneath 
the furniture and on to the carpet. Its even more difficult to see how it would have created 
the pattern it did if it had.
The report also notes that the carpet was in relatively poor condition prior to the paint 
spillage.
Its not unreasonable for Admiral to take that expert report into account when making a 
decision on Mrs B and Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B was asked by the loss adjuster to account for some of the anomalies in his account 
when compared to the spillages. He wasnt able to provide a reasonable explanation of how 
the paint spilled to make the stains evident on the furniture and carpet.
Mrs B and Mr B havent provided any further evidence or information which might call the 
experts view and the loss adjusters opinion into doubt.
That being the case, I cant reasonably conclude that Admiral have acted unfairly towards 
Mrs B and Mr B in declining their claim and/or cancelling their policy and/or recording the 
claim as fraudulent, based on the information and evidence available to them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman