DRN-3385974
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain about the service Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G) 
provided when they applied to transfer their lifetime mortgage to another property and the 
early repayment charge they had to pay when they redeemed the mortgage.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P took out a lifetime mortgage of around £440,000 with L&G in late 2018. 
Under the terms of the mortgage they could transfer it to a new home that was acceptable 
to L&G, subject to their lending criteria being met. The loan was subject to an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of up to around £109,650 if it was repaid before the younger of  
Mr P and Mrs P reached their 88th birthday.
Mr P and Mrs P wanted to downsize to be closer to their family. In January 2020 they 
approached L&G about transferring their mortgage to another property. L&G approved their 
application, but the buyer pulled out and the transaction didnt go ahead.
In June 2020 Mr P and Mrs P accepted an offer on their property. L&G agreed they could 
port their mortgage to another property they already owned. There was an initial delay in 
the conveyancing process when L&Gs solicitors failed to progress things. L&G accepted 
responsibility for that. It then became apparent an extension to the property hadnt been 
signed off in line with building regulations. Repairs were needed before that could happen 
and due to the pandemic Mr P and Mrs P couldnt get their builder to carry out the work in 
the foreseeable future. They asked L&G to approve porting the mortgage to just the 
original part of the property, but L&G didnt agree to that. They acknowledged they took too 
long to let Mr P and Mrs P know their decision.
In mid-August 2020 Mr P and Mrs P asked L&G whether theyd be prepared to waive the 
ERC. Around the same time, they made a further application to port to another property 
they were planning to buy. Mr P and Mrs P wanted the transfer to complete by the 
beginning of October. L&G acknowledged their usual timescales for appointing a valuer 
were exceeded. But Mr P and Mrs P decided not to go ahead with the transfer shortly after 
the valuation had been instructed. They redeemed the mortgage and became liable to pay 
an ERC of around £109,500.
L&G offered Mr P and Mrs P £300 to compensate them for the poor service theyd 
received. Mr P and Mrs P thought, given all the circumstances, it would be fair for L&G to 
waive the ERC. Since L&G didnt agree, Mr P and Mrs P brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator felt the level of compensation L&G should pay should be 
increased to £500. Since the parties didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was 
referred to me to review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which 
follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have provided detailed information about the circumstances surrounding Mr P 
and Mrs Ps complaint, which Im grateful for. I dont set out here everything theyve told 
me. No discourtesy is intended by that  it reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide. Id like to reassure the parties Ive considered all their information and arguments 
carefully in coming to my decision.
Im conscious Mr P and Mrs P had been looking to move since late 2019/early 2020. So, I 
can understand it was stressful and frustrating for them that they hadnt managed to 
achieve that around nine or ten months later. And I acknowledge their strength of feeling 
about the impact of delays by L&G on the time things took, and on their decision to redeem 
their mortgage.
Mr P feels the impact of the pandemic should be taken into account in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable. I agree its fair to assess what happened in Mr P and Mrs Ps 
circumstances against that background. I can understand it made things even more 
stressful for them. But I think its fair to say the pandemic put firms under pressure too as 
they had to adapt to new ways of working which inevitably led to delay. Despite that, L&G 
have accepted responsibility for some of the delays that occurred here.
I dont think L&G were to blame for anything that happened before June 2020. L&G 
acknowledge there was an initial delay of around a week after they instructed solicitors in 
mid-July when the solicitors misfiled their instruction. After that L&G were considering 
whether theyd allow the transfer of the mortgage to part only of Mr P and Mrs Ps 
property based on a valuation carried out some years before. L&G acknowledged they 
should have given their decision sooner, although theyve explained they were taking 
legal advice and considering their position during that period, and their records support 
that.
Mr P says his solicitors felt that without the delays in June/July, it would have been possible 
to get the transfer Mr P and Mrs P applied for in August completed in line with the planned 
completion date of 1 October. I think its too speculative to reach any conclusions about 
that. Although I think they should have kept Mr P and Mrs P better informed about what 
was happening between July and mid-August, overall I dont think the time L&G took to 
come to a decision was unreasonable in the circumstances.
L&G agreed there was a slight delay beyond their usual timescales in instructing a 
valuation of the property Mr P and Mrs P were planning to transfer their loan to in August. 
Mr P and Mrs P had asked for this application to be dealt with as a priority. But they 
decided very soon afterwards to cancel their application, so the delay in instructing the 
valuer had no impact on how things then progressed.
Its unclear if Mr P and Mrs P had committed to the completion date of 1 October they were 
working towards. L&Gs illustrations sent to them in August 2020 included a clear warning 
they shouldnt commit until L&G had agreed to the transfer and issued an offer. And I 
understand Mr P and Mrs P were aware of L&Gs timescale of around 12 weeks for porting 
applications. I acknowledge Mr P and Mrs Ps good intentions as regards their purchaser. 
They were keen to sell their existing property to the buyer they had lined up as it suited the 
buyers particular needs. But it doesnt follow that L&Gs refusal to waive the ERC means 
theyve been unfair to Mr P and Mrs P.
The ERC was payable under the terms of the mortgage contract to which Mr P and Mrs P 
agreed. It was set out clearly in their mortgage offer and Mr P and Mrs P understood theyd 
have to pay it if they redeemed the mortgage.Mr P and Mrs P argue L&G should reduce or refund the ERC for reasons of fairness. They 
say that since theyd only had the mortgage for two years when they redeemed it, L&G 
have had all their money back and a bonus of £109,000 as well.
The purpose of an ERC is to protect the lender from the costs of the mortgage being repaid 
early. In simple terms, a lender must raise the funds to lend to its customers from a variety 
of sources, including the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to the lender in raising 
the funds, which it recovers (with some profit) from the interest its customers are liable for 
when it lends those funds on.
To be able to provide long term loans like mortgages, a lender has to commit to repaying 
the costs of its own fund raising over a long term. It therefore needs to be sure that it will be 
able to recover those costs when it lends the money out. Where a lender charges interest 
on its mortgages, the parties have some certainty about what they will owe as the term 
progresses. However, because circumstances can change over the course of a long-term 
commitment, there is flexibility built into the mortgage to allow the borrower to repay the 
mortgage early if they need (or choose) to.
But early repayment reduces the income the lender will receive over the mortgage term, 
and so they charge an ERC to compensate themselves for that lost income. The lender 
works out the amount of the ERC by looking at its past experience and other information to 
see what the average cost to it is likely to be across a group of mortgages and raises 
funds, which it has to pay for, on that basis.
Bearing the above in mind, the ERC Mr P and Mrs P were liable for isnt a bonus for L&G; 
it covers the cost to them of Mr P and Mrs P repaying the loan early. So, I wont require 
L&G to refund the ERC to Mr P and Mrs P. But there are some areas where L&G could 
have provided better service and I think its fair L&G should compensate them for that.
Mr P and Mrs P have told us poor communication and delays by L&G and the inability to 
port their mortgage caused them considerable distress, affected their long term financial 
plans and meant they werent able to buy the property they wanted. I dont underestimate 
the stress Mr P and Mrs P were under. I acknowledge they felt under pressure to complete 
their sale and Ive no doubt the pandemic was making things more stressful for them than 
they might otherwise have been. But in deciding whats fair compensation, I need to 
consider the impact of L&Gs mistakes on Mr P and Mrs P.
Ive mentioned the delays I think L&G were responsible for. And Ive noted L&G could 
have communicated better with Mr P and Mrs P in July/August 2020. In addition, Mr P 
says he spoke to different people at L&G each time he rang and got the impression there 
was poor internal communication as he had to explain things many times. L&G didnt 
accept Mr Ps concerns and said they cant guarantee the same people will be available 
to discuss things every time a customer calls. I can understand Mr P found it frustrating if 
he felt he was having to repeat himself and Id expect L&G staff to have been able to 
discuss things with him easily by accessing his information without difficulty.
Im conscious L&G accepted theyd provided a service below their own expectations and 
offered Mr P and Mrs P compensation in response to their complaint. Considering 
everything, I think the £300 compensation L&G offered Mr P and Mrs P to resolve their 
complaint was fair.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr P and Mrs P will be disappointed by my 
decision, I intend to partly uphold their complaint and direct L&G to pay them the £300 
theyve previously offered as compensation for distress and inconvenience.My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint in part and direct Legal & General Finance 
Limited to pay them £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Mr P is concerned my provisional decision doesnt focus sufficiently on L&Gs unfair 
treatment of him and Mrs P and the impact the pandemic had on their efforts to meet their 
timetable for moving. He feels Ive overlooked L&Gs lack of concern about the distress they 
suffered. And he thinks the compensation Ive proposed doesnt take into account L&Gs 
failure to provide advice or offer possible solutions, like those their independent financial 
adviser (IFA) mentioned, to the problems he and Mrs P faced. 
L&G raised some points on the wording of my provisional decision but accepted the 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I mentioned in my provisional decision that the informal nature of the service we provide 
means I dont set out everything the parties have told me. But Ive considered all their 
information and arguments carefully in coming to my decision.
Ive acknowledged Mr P and Mrs P were in a stressful situation and I understand Mr P feels 
L&G lacked concern for them. I explained its fair for the impact of the pandemic on both 
parties to be considered. And I accepted L&G should have communicated better, as theyd 
acknowledged. In assessing the level of compensation Ive taken into account the impact of 
L&Gs actions on Mr P and Mrs P.
It was unfortunate the pandemic affected Mr P and Mrs Ps ability to carry out work that 
would have enabled their existing property to meet building regulations. But L&G werent 
responsible for the difficulties in carrying out the work. And it was reasonable for them to be 
satisfied their lending would be adequately secured.
Its not clear if the possible solutions the IFA mentioned were put to L&G when they were 
considering the application to port to Mr P and Mrs Ps existing property. I dont think L&G 
had to identify all the possible options. And from what Ive seen they gave reasonable 
consideration as to how they could help, including whether indemnity insurance would 
address any risk the property presented as security for the loan. In the end L&G were 
entitled to come to a commercial decision about the level of risk they were prepared to 
accept and to decline the porting application if they felt the property didnt offer adequate 
security. I dont think L&G treated Mr P and Mrs P unfairly in coming to that decision. 
I acknowledge the ERC was significant and I can understand why Mr P thinks the level of 
compensation I proposed was low in comparison. But payment of the ERC resulted from the 
decision Mr P and Mrs P made to redeem the loan. Im still satisfied £300 is fair and 
reasonable to compensate Mr P and Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience they suffered 
as a result of L&Gs mistakes.
Putting things right
I think the offer made by L&G to pay Mr P and Mrs P compensation of £300 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. L&G should make that payment to them now as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint in part and direct Legal & General Finance Limited to 
pay them £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman