DRN-2435016
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold them a joint whole of life policy in 
1990. Theyre unhappy with the high charges applied to their policy and that their death 
benefit was reduced. They said the possibility of the death benefit reducing wasnt explained 
to them at the point of sale.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs Rs policy was reviewed in 2014 and 2019. Following the reviews, the policys 
death benefit was reduced in line with the £20 monthly premium they agreed to pay at the 
point of sale. Mr and Mrs R were unhappy the death benefit had reduced from £45,625 to 
£24,377.27. So, they made a complaint to Phoenix Life. 
Phoenix Life reviewed the complaint and accepted it should have explained how the policy 
worked in more detail. It offered to convert Mr and Mrs Rs policy to a non-reviewable one. 
This meant the premium would stay at £20 per month and the death benefit would drop to 
£20,000. Phoenix Life also offered £150 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs R 
by telling them an incorrect death benefit in its 2014 review and for the delay in handling 
their complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt think this offer was fair and wanted their death benefit 
returned to the original £45,625 it was when the policy was sold. So, they brought their 
complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Phoenix Lifes offer to 
convert the policy to a non-reviewable one was fair. This meant Mr and Mrs R didnt have to 
worry about any future policy reviews and they could keep the same monthly premium. She 
didnt think any premiums or charges should be refunded to Mr and Mrs R (due to the death 
benefit being reduced) because a claim couldve been made, and the charges didnt seem 
unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. They said the business can 
do whatever it wants with their money which is unfair. 
I reviewed the file and thought Phoenix Life should make an additional payment of £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused to Mr and Mrs R due to the policy not being 
explained properly. Phoenix Life agreed to the compensation. Mr and Mrs R didnt think this 
offer was fair and would like their policy to still have a death benefit of £45,625. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint in part. But, I dont agree that 
Mr and Mrs Rs death benefit should be changed back to £45,625. I know they feel strongly 
about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
According to the terms and conditions, this policy is reviewed every five years after the tenth 
anniversary of the policy and on a yearly basis after Mr and Mrs R are 75 years old. The 
terms and conditions also mention that the cost of cover will vary depending on the age of 
the life assured and on Phoenix Lifes mortality costs.
Mr and Mrs R have said the policy schedule they were given in 1990 showed they had a 
guaranteed death benefit of £45,625. Phoenix Life has said it cant be sure the possible 
reduction in the future death benefit was explained to Mr and Mrs R at the point of sale. As a 
result, its offered to make this a non-reviewable policy. 
Ive considered whether this was a fair offer in the circumstances. Having done so, I believe 
it is. I believe the advice to take out a reviewable whole of life policy wasnt wholly 
unreasonable. Although Phoenix Life has said it cant be certain the risks were explained, 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R wanted a whole of life policy to protect them, but they were 
keen for the death benefit not to reduce significantly and for the monthly premium to be 
fixed. This isnt possible with a reviewable policy. 
An actuary at Phoenix Life has confirmed that based upon the average premiums 
Mr and Mrs R have paid, a death benefit of £20,000 for a monthly premium of £20 is correct. 
I note this is a smaller death benefit than the one they were told after the 2019 review - 
£24,377.27. But, the £20,000 will no longer be reviewable and will be fixed. Whereas its 
possible at the next review in 2024 that the death benefit on their reviewable policy wouldve 
continued to decrease in line with the terms and conditions. 
Phoenix Life says the reviews are necessary because the policys mortality charges increase 
in line with Mr and Mrs Rs advancing age. Mr and Mrs Rs policy, and similar whole of life 
policies, are reviewed regularly because it isnt possible to know exactly how much it will 
cost to maintain the level of cover that was agreed at the point of sale. And having reviewed 
the charges applied here they dont seem excessive in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs R should also be entitled to compensation from 
Phoenix Life for the trouble and upset caused by the sale of this policy. Im satisfied, they 
wouldve been surprised and troubled to find out the death benefit could reduce when it was 
reviewed. And I believe an additional £200 compensation is fair and reasonable here. 
Ive considered the compensation Phoenix Life has already offered for the delays it caused 
when reviewing Mr and Mrs Rs complaint (£100) and for making an error in its policy review 
in 2014 (£50). Having done so, I believe those are fair offers for the delays and the mistakes 
caused. 
So, Phoenix Life should pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £350 in compensation for this complaint.  
My final decision
  
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £350 compensation. If 
Phoenix Life Limited has already paid Mr and Mrs R the £150 compensation offered in its 
final response letter, it should pay them an additional £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman