DRN-1989189
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the amount of compensation HFC UK Bank plc (HFC) has offered to 
settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside a loan.
What happened
Mr L applied for a loan in July 2002 and the application form shows that he also selected to 
take out a PPI policy at the same time. The loan was to start when the funds were released 
on completion of some work Mr L was having done and the PPI would start at the same 
time. The loan is indicated as being repaid over 120 months and the PPI cost was a monthly 
premium of £13.08, this being paid by adding it to the monthly loan repayment. 
Mr L complained to HFC that the PPI had been mis-sold. HFC agreed to uphold his 
complaint and offered him £27.62 in compensation after tax. HFC only have limited records 
about the PPI but these show that only one payment of £13.08 was paid. So it was on that 
basis the compensation was calculated.
Mr L wasnt happy with the offer as he said he paid the PPI for much longer and paid much 
more for it. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said the compensation HFC had offered was fair. Mr L remained unhappy 
and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HFC has agreed to uphold Mr Ls s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Therefore, in 
this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
HFC does not have full records of the account, it only has some computer records about the 
account, which isnt surprising considering the loan and PPI were both taken out almost 20 
years ago. Legally businesses are only required to keep full records for six years.
A copy of the loan application and agreement is available, and this indicates that the total 
amount borrowed by Mr L was £4,500. Interest on this came to £5,313.42, so Mr L had to 
repay in total £9,813.42 for the money he borrowed. This was to be repaid over 120 months 
so the cost for the loan would have been 120 payments of £81.78. But the agreement 
indicates that including the monthly PPI payment Mr L would pay £94.86. So Mr L was to 
pay a monthly premium for the PPI of £13.08.
The computer records HFC has about the account indicate that Mr L only made one 
payment of £13.08 for the PPI in November 2002. This, taken together with the information 
from the loan agreement indicating the monthly payment was £13.08, would suggest Mr L 
made just the one payment for the PPI. The fact that this was made in November 2002 
would also tie in with the information on the loan agreement that repayments for the loan 
would start when all works were completed, and the monies were released. 
Mr L believes he paid the £94.86 for the full period the loan was active, and he recalls 
settling the loan early around 2008. But there is no evidence of how long Mr L did pay the full 
£94.86 each month, and so paid the PPI monthly premium of £13.08. The only direct 
evidence of the payments of the PPI premium is from the records of HFC and these are 
clear that only one months premium of £13.08 was made. 
It is quite possible when Mr L started making his repayments, he decided he wanted to keep 
the monthly cost down and so cancelled the PPI. He would have then just made the monthly 
repayments for the loan amount. Without some evidence that Mr L did make the monthly 
repayment amount of £94.86 including the PPI premium until he settled the loan, I cannot 
know if he did make more payments for the PPI than the one shown on HFCs records. 
The only evidence before me is that Mr L took out the PPI and the monthly cost was £13.08, 
and that he only made one payment of that amount for the PPI. So based on this I think that 
HFC only have to refund him the one payment that is clearly evidenced as being paid. 
The calculation HFC has carried out shows it has taken the cost of the premium paid and 
worked out compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple for each year Mr L was out of 
pocket. It has then taken basic rate income tax off the compensatory interest amount. This is 
in line with what I would expect HFC to do, to calculate fair compensation for Mr L. 
If HFC has not yet paid the compensation to Mr L then it must update the compensatory 
interest amount to the date of final payment, as Mr L is still out of pocket. HFC are required 
by HM Revenue and Customs to take income tax off the compensatory interest, and if Mr L 
requires a certificate of tax paid, then he should request this from HFC who should provide 
such a certificate to him. 
  
Overall, I think the approach of HFC in working out the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I think the compensation HFC UK Bank plc has calculated and offered to Mr L for the mis-
sold PPI is fair, subject to updating the compensatory interest to the date of final payment if 
required. Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman