DRN-1491495
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE wont return the premiums he has 
paid on his previous mobile phone insurance policy for his three former handsets. Mr W says 
he didnt want cover for both the previous and new handsets. So, he should be refunded the 
premiums he has paid on the old policy. 
This complaint has been brought by Mr Ws wife, Mrs W, but for ease Ill refer to him 
throughout. 
What happened
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think Liberty 
made Mr W fully aware that when he reinstated his old insurance policies, hed have 
insurance on his old mobile phones as well as his new ones. He said that when he received 
a text message telling him the insurance had been cancelled, he believed this left him 
without cover on his new handsets.  
Liberty didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. It said when 
Mr W first complained it listened to the call where he reinstated the old policies and said it 
didnt make an error. It added that this call was no longer available but there was a call note 
available. And Mr W wouldve still been insured for the old handsets, so it wasnt prepared to 
refund the premiums it had taken on the reinstated policies.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons.
When I consider complaints such as this one, I do it on a case by case basis to see whether 
I feel  on balance  Mr W wanted his old policy to continue alongside his new ones. 
This service has a fair and reasonable remit. So, I can ask Liberty to refund the premiums it 
has taken on the old policy Mr W is asking to be refunded, if I think Liberty holding on to 
these premiums would lead to an unfair outcome. 
I havent been able to listen to the call where Mr W re-instated the old policy. So, Ive 
considered Mr Ws testimony alongside other evidence on the file such as the complaint 
handlers comments after he listened to the call and the original call note. In this instance I 
agree with the investigator that Mr W  on balance  didnt want cover for all six handsets. 
I believe Mr W was confused by the text message saying that due to his upgrade the 
insurance had been cancelled. He believed he didnt have any cover for his new devices. 
So, he called up to reinstate the old ones to make sure he did have cover. And I think  on 
balance  more couldve been done to explain how many policies Mr W would have and 
what mobiles were covered if he reinstated his old one. 
As the call handler explained when Mr W called to query the premiums being taken, each 
number can only have one insurance on it. And I cant see from the call notes where it was 
explained that Mr W would now have cover for all of his handsets. So, Im satisfied Mr W 
never wanted cover for all his handsets here. 
Putting things right
So, I think Liberty should refund the premiums paid by Mr W for the reinstated policy from 
the date they were reinstated until they were cancelled. Liberty should also add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of the payments were taken until the settlement is paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe 
SE should do the following;
1. Return to Mr W the premiums it has taken on the old insurance policy since he called 
to reinstate it. 
2. Pay Mr W 8% simple interest per year on these premiums from the date the 
payments were taken until the settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman