DRN-3898457
The complaint
Mr J complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Atomos Financial Planning Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Atomos.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js former employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr J was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Atomos 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr J was 38 years old, married and with three young dependent children. He was 
described as being in good health and at the time.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Js deferred BSPS was 
approximately £169,987. The normal retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 65. 
Atomos said Mr Js aspirations were to retire earlier than this.
Mr J had by then left British Steel to work elsewhere and he earned around £45,000 
per year. He had also started a defined contribution (DC) pension with his new 
employer. Mr J also had a small, deferred DB pension from a previous career. These 
pensions arent the subject of any complaint here.
Mr J lived in a home valued at around £150,000 with an 18-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £105,000. Mrs J also worked. After expenses they had some 
disposable income left over. Mr and Mrs J had £10,000 in a combination of joint 
savings and some work-related shares.
Atomos set out its advice in a suitability report on 14 August 2017. In this it advised Mr J to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Atomos 
said this would allow Mr J to achieve his objectives. Mr J accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In 2022 Mr J complained to Atomos about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr J also referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Atomos said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr J had at the time. 
As this complaint cant evidently be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Atomos's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Atomos should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Js best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Atomos. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Financial viability 
Atomos referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Atomos used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the 
critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. The BSPS2 critical yields were likely 
to be between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme 
(BSPS). 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr J was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
Having said all that, Atomos said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the 
age of 65 in the BSPS, was 7.19%. It also calculated the critical yield rates for an earlier 
retirement, at the age of 55. It did this because Mr J had apparently expressed a desire to 
retire early. However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very long way off 
for Mr J and so I very much doubt whether retiring at 55 was anything more than something 
he just aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. For the age of 55, the critical yield 
came out at 8.68%. But I dont think there was credible evidence at the time that achieving 
enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was ever 
going to be achievable. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.6% per year for 26 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. The discount rate for a retirement at 55 (16 years to 
retirement) was only 4.3%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at 
the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%.
At the time, Atomos assessed Mr Js attitude to risk (ATR) as adventurous or a rating of 
6/7. However, there is no real evidence that Mr J himself had any experience of these types 
of money market investments or investing in a wider sense. For example, he had £5,000 in 
joint savings invested in what looks like a normal cash deposit account and the company 
shares mentioned in the documentation from the time appear to relate to a share scheme 
operated by Mrs Js then employer. So, there is no evidence whatsoever that Mr J had any 
investment experience to draw upon and so I dont think that such a high ATR categorisation 
was appropriate here; I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Js situation would have 
moderated this down considerably. I accept that Mr J may have considered himself a risk 
taker, but in an investment context Id have expected the adviser to use common sense and 
their professional experience when assessing Mr Js ATR and also his capacity to absorb 
losses. Investing in higher risk assets  in this case individual shares (as opposed to funds) 
was mentioned and also investments in commercial property  is not a one way street and in my view these were investments which required a full understanding of the risks. Because 
he had no relevant experience, I think placing Mr J in this category was wrong.
In the event, however, this didnt really matter. Thats because I dont think the adviser had 
enough information or evidence to recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based 
on a financial comparison basis. In fact, the adviser themselves said that achieving the 
critical yield was unlikely. An in my view, growth assumptions close to the regulators mid 
projections and also to the discount rate were most relevant here. So, I think growth 
assumptions of around 4 -to-5% were much more realistic. These were substantially below 
the critical yield figures for the BSPS, so I think this showed that achieving the critical 
yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, Atomoss own transfer analysis said that even in 
order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment 
and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £295,684. For the 
age of 55 the amount required was £203,648.
To reiterate, these figures are found in Atomoss own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time and they are for buying a much less valuable 
pension. And because these figures are far above Mr Js CETV, they represent, in my view, 
a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr J could be giving up by 
transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Atomos also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Atomos said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and Atomos itself says Mr J wouldnt have wanted 
to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges 
and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr J, 
would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Atomoss own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr J would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. 
Ive also considered some projections Atomos used to help show that if he transferred out to 
a personal plan, the funds could last Mr J well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance and some of the 
projections ran out at certain ages whereas Mr Js DB scheme lasted for the whole of his life. 
Its also fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What Atomos was showing Mr J 
were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Atomos, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Atomos said Mr J also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectivesAtomos recommended a transfer to a type of personal pension plan based on what it said 
were Mr Js wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice 
sessions to summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Transferring would increase his chances of being able to retire early, at the age 55. 
There would be greater flexibility in a personal pension arrangement. Mr J was also 
told the personal pension arrangement would provide access to all investment 
options including direct equities and commercial property should he decide to utilise 
these in the future.
The death benefits were more suitable in a personal pension.
He would reduce the risk of his BSPS benefits being reduced as a result of the 
current action being taken by his former employer.
Mr J would benefit from ongoing advice and support from a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM) and the charges he paid included this service.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Overview
In my view, the adviser portrayed the DB scheme opportunity Mr J had with the proposed 
BSPS2 in a negative dimension. The implication was that transferring to the BSPS2 was 
somehow too restrictive for Mr J and unsuitable for him. In fact, Atomos says now that there 
was so little known about the BSPS2 that recommending it to Mr J simply wasnt an option. 
But I dont agree with this.
I do accept there were some considerable uncertainties at the time. But in the suitability 
report, Atomos told Mr J that if he moved into a new scheme . the benefits [were] not as 
good as they are at present. So, Atomos was evidently telling Mr J here that it did have 
enough knowledge to arrive at the conclusion that transferring was clearly the right thing for 
him to do - even though now it is saying it didnt. In any event, if Atomos is saying there was 
so little known about BSPS2, then of course, this would mean it advised him to irreversibly 
transfer away from his existing DB scheme on incomplete information.
We know a great deal about the timeline of events with these types of cases and I myself 
have seen a great many similar complaints. I can therefore confidently say that whilst 
Atomos was gathering information at a somewhat uncertain time in August 2017, there were 
nevertheless, various updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS and 
the BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that 
details of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to 
make a choice. 
It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Js former employer 
was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values and that members with unexpired 
transfer values would be sent updated valuations  probably improved ones  which would 
be guaranteed until at least December 2017. A strategic lump sum payment to the BSPS 
was also confirmed just before Atomos gave Mr J advice. 
However, Atomos proceeded with the advice to Mr J without really accounting for any of this. 
It didnt delay providing the advice so there were no direct comparisons carried out of the benefits the BSPS2 would potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr J 
had received in June 2017, which was due to expire in September 2017. 
All the ongoing announcements indicated there would be forthcoming information available. 
In my view this meant that in order to give Mr J enough information to make a fully informed 
decision about what was in his best interests, I think Atomos should have told him to defer 
making a final decision on possibly transferring away until further details of the BSPS2 were 
known and revised transfer values were received. Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-
off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are usually 
lost forever. 
The announcements indicated thus far were that Mr J would be afforded time to think about 
his options  so the deadline in the original transfer quotation became less relevant. Waiting 
would have allowed Atomos to carry out an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and to properly 
compare these to the alternatives, and base its advice on this. Without doing this, Atomos 
was acting on information which it knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could 
properly assess whether a transfer was in Mr Js best interests.
Retiring early
I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Js comparatively young age by 
pension standards. As Ive mentioned above, Mr J was still only 38 years old and in good 
health. Mrs J was only 33. In this context, I think Atomoss adviser saying Mr J had specific 
uses for his retirement funds lacked credibility. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr J  
understandably - had no concrete plans whatsoever for his retirement. With over 26 years 
still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no 
way that how much hed need in retirement should have been a major influence in him 
deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk 
which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
Whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr J probably wanted to stop working as early as possible, 
I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general retirement 
aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire at 55. It was simply far too early 
to speculate about this.
Flexibility and / or control of his pension 
I also cant see that Mr J required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Atomos. I therefore think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr J required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away 
from retirement age. He already had signed up to a new and more flexible DC pension with 
his new employer. This DC pension was currently being contributed towards by both Mr J 
and his new employer. The evidence also shows that Mr J had the capacity, if he wanted to, 
to increase contributions in the future to this DC scheme. And because he was still so young, 
it had up to 26 years left to run (16 years if he did eventually retire very early) with new 
contributions and potential growth. So, this secondary pension would have afforded Mr J any 
flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr J wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr J could have been in an agreeable 
position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of a reasonable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees 
also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. It seems Mr J 
also had a small, but guaranteed, DB pension provided by the government as a result of 
serving his country. 
On the other hand, by his eventual retirement hed have probably also built up a substantial 
DC scheme over a long period of time  up to 26 years. So, if Mr J ever found he needed so-
called flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the 
former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr J had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr J was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the 
new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr J himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £169,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr J 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support over many more years, all of 
which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Atomos itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income when assessed against what Mr J had speculated that he 
might need in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing 
retirement needs so far in advance and at such a young age. However, Mr J speculated that 
he might have needed around £2,000 per month in todays money.
Atomoss analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr J could expect an annual pension of around 
£13,500. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension calculated for the earlier 
retirement, at aged 55, this was still £7,300 per year. But it certainly isnt unreasonable to 
say that by then, Mr J could have built up a six-figure DC fund even if assuming a low growth 
rate. We can also add his other DB pension to this and I dont think Atomos took enough 
regard for the likely pension Mrs J would have received; no information about this was 
collected. So overall, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Js combined and eventual 
pension entitlements wouldnt have met his anticipated requirements, without any need to 
transfer away from his BSPS scheme to a personal plan. Atomos simply didnt make out a 
case for this. I dont think it adequately explained these things to Mr J as its advice simply 
discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined 
and which he didnt need.
Of course, despite being around £169,000 in overall transfer value, this figure is really only a 
moderate amount in pension terms. So, there was an opportunity here for the adviser to be 
direct with Mr J. He could have told him, for example, that retiring so young certainly wasnt 
an inevitability when viewed from that time period and the amount of assets he currently had.  
In my view he should have told him that his circumstances here were much more aligned to 
him transferring to BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Mr J 
may possibly have been able to retire earlier than 65 if hed paid in more to a DC pension in 
the years following 2017. If taking his BSPS2 benefits early, there would have been an 
actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a 
second DB pension and also a new DC scheme with plenty of contributions yet to come, 
these other unrealised assets helped support a modest early retirement aspiration, in my 
view. 
Death benefits Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr J died. Mr J was married and had children so I think 
the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension 
provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs J if he predeceased her. I dont think 
Atomos made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. There were other related benefits for children in education.
But the adviser told Mr J that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. This needed a careful explanation. The lump 
sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an 
attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, 
and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension 
because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
Atomos explored to what extent Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for different death benefits.
Mr J was only 38 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. As Ive said, Mr Js CETV wasnt 
large so to this end, if Mr J had lived a long life there could be nothing left at all in his 
personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 55 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 55 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone.
I cant say the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 38 years old, 
a modest term life insurance policy would have still been a reasonably affordable product if 
Mr J really did want to leave a large legacy for a specific relative or someone else. But more 
so, it doesnt appear that Atomos took into account the fact that Mr J could have nominated 
a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his new DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr J already 
had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Js situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr J, like many employees of his former company, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and Atomos said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Atomos said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr J was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his former employer and a negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was Atomoss obligation to give Mr J an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests. By the point of the advice being delivered it seemed likely BSPS2 was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Atomos 
should have reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr J through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his true ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees, which in this case were significant. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Atomoss 
recommendation to Mr J to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
Atomos has implied that the CETV offer was so high that accepting it and transferring away 
was the right thing for Mr J to do. However, this needs to be looked at through the prism of 
2017 and the economic climate then. 2017 was still in the midst of a period of historically low 
interest rates and bond yields. In this context, there was no imperative that reasonably 
meant Mr J ought to transfer on this basis alone.
In many ways, it could reasonably be said that Mr and Mrs J still had very significant periods 
of their family life ahead of them. They had three young children and Im sure their priority 
would be to see them through their primary, secondary and perhaps even tertiary 
education(s). What Im saying here is that they simply couldnt predict the challenges that lay 
ahead, many of which would be financial ones. And so Atomos was providing advice without 
due regard to these likely changes. It was simply far too early for Mr J to transfer away from 
a guaranteed DB scheme.
Suitability of investments 
Atomos recommended that Mr J invest his funds in a personal pension and have the funds 
managed by a DFM. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the 
DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out 
of the scheme if clear advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider 
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have 
arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr J was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Atomos ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant he could be worse 
off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
Even though there were some weeks ahead where more information from Mr Js ex-
employer was due, I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr J still had many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it 
would have been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by 
the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr J would have retained the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Atomos should have advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2 in due course.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr J would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Atomos disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr J, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr J to transfer out, and I think Mr J relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Atomoss advice. I say this because Mr J was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Atomos had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about the PPF were so great that he would have 
insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
So if Atomos had explained Mr J was also unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him 
through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Atomos should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Atomoss unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Atomos should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Atomos must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Atomos should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Atomos should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts Atomoss offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Atomos may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that Atomos should pay Mr J for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr J in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr J. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. Atomos should pay Mr J this amount in addition to the redress Ive set 
out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Atomos 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Atomos Financial Planning Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Atomos Financial 
Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman