DRN-3963818
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Logbook Money Limited (Logbook Money) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs S took out a fixed sum loan with Logbook Money for £1,500. The 
loan was repayable by way of 18 monthly payments of £233.35. The total amount payable 
under the agreement was £4,200.30. 
Mrs S started getting into difficulty with meeting the repayments in or around March 2020. 
The loan was settled by way of a payment made by Mrs Ss car insurer in 
November 2020. 
Mrs S says the loan was made irresponsibly and wasnt affordable. She wasnt working at 
the time and her sole income was state benefits. 
Logbook Money didnt agree. It said it had reviewed Mrs Ss bank statement and income 
and expenditure when she made the application and had found the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Logbook Money 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the loan. 
Mrs S didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Logbook Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before granting the finance, I think Logbook Money gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mrs S about her ability to repay. I say this having noted that, 
whilst it isnt Logbook Moneys practice to obtain credit check information, it did instead carry 
out other checks. Those checks included obtaining details about three months of bank 
statements and also asking Mrs S to provide details of her income and expenditure. I think, 
taken together, this information was enough to show whether Mrs S would be able to repay 
the agreement sustainably. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, 
it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Logbook Money gathered, as well as the 
information Mrs S provided at the time she made her application for the loan. Having done 
so Im satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to 
be affordable to Mrs S. I say this having noted that Mrs S told Logbook Money in the income 
and expenditure details she gave them that she had a monthly income of  £1,300, made up 
of state benefits. The bank statement information Ive seen broadly supports that. So I think, 
having checked her bank statements, Logbook Money took note of the level of benefits she 
was receiving prior to making her application and also her regular living expenses. Based on 
that and also her credit check, it calculated that Mrs S had enough disposable income. So it 
looked very likely she could afford the monthly repayment. 
I agree with our adjudicator that, having reviewed this information and taking into account 
Mrs Ss level of income, her daily outgoings and the committed expenditure shown in the 
credit reports Ive seen, she had sufficient disposable income. That means the loan was 
likely to have been affordable for her. For these reasons, I dont think Logbook Money acted 
unfairly when approving the finance application.
Did Logbook Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs S has said that Logbook Money didnt tell her about the cost of the loan. She also says 
she wasnt given any documentation. From what Ive seen about the process operated by 
Logbook Money, its likely that details about the cost of the loan would have been explained 
to her after shed made her application. Of course, Ive no way of knowing for sure what was 
said at the time, but given that Ive seen a copy of the agreement she was given and signed 
at the time, I also think its likely she had time to look over the agreement and ask any 
questions before signing it. 
I also think Logbook Money acted fairly when it later agreed to extend the term of Mrs Ss 
contract from 18 to 30 months. This reduced her monthly repayments and Logbook Money 
didnt add any additional interest over the term. 
I would like to add that I am sorry to hear about the difficult family circumstances Mrs S was 
going through at the time. And whilst I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs S was hoping 
for, I dont  consider Ive seen enough evidence or information to show that the logbook loan 
was made irresponsibly. I therefore dont think Logbook Money needs to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman