DRN-3828723
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as M has complained about the deteriorating service it received
from Advisory Insurance Brokers Limited (AIBL) with regard to its business interruption
insurance. AIBL previously traded under a different name which is why the name on this
decision is different to the one M complained about.
Mr W, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M held business interruption insurance through AIBL. It contacted AIBL in April 2020 to 
enquire about cover for losses as a result of Covid-19. It said AIBL advised that there wasnt
cover for the circumstances of its claim.
In July 2020, AIBL sent M a renewal invitation. M replied to say it wasnt happy with the
quote as it had received some lower quotes elsewhere, even when taking AIBLs
underwriting fee into account. AIBL offered to remove the underwriting fee but said they 
couldnt find any lower quotes. M complained to AIBL about how they had handled this.
On 3 August 2020, M advised AIBL that it had been told that it didnt have cover for Covid-19
but had never received anything in writing and given the service it had received from AIBL it
doubted the information it had been provided with.
On 11 August 2020, AIBL asked M to provide the dates of its closure so that they could
formally log the claim with the insurers. AIBL said that the insurers would issue a formal
response and if they received a timescale from the insurer they would pass this to M. AIBL
said that their employee dealing with Ms complaint didnt deal with claims but if M wanted
someone else to deal with it, M should let them know.
On 26 August and 10 September 2020, AIBL emailed the insurer to ask for an update on Ms
claim. However, AIBL had used the incorrect email address when contacting the insurer and
so the insurer hadnt received the claim.
The insurer confirmed to our service that they received the claim on 17 September 2020.
In their final response letter, AIBL said that they had advised in a call in March 2020 that it
was unlikely that M would be covered for Covid-19 but that could change. They said as a
broker they didnt handle claims for the insurer and so couldnt advise on a claim but could
only pass on the information they had and pass Ms details to the insurer.
AIBL said they had looked for alternative policies for M at renewal but had been unable to
find any competitive quotes.
Unhappy with AIBLs response, M brought its complaint to our service. It said AIBL advised
in April 2020 that there wasnt cover for Covid-19 but didnt explain why or put things in
writing. M said AIBL had changed their position a number of times and also provided poor
service during the subsequent renewal process.
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he thought
AIBL had done what they needed to in relation to the claim.
M asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said AIBL had accepted they had made an error
when logging the claim. It said it had repeatedly tried to get hold of the insurer in relation to
its claim but had been referred back to AIBL. M also said the policy had been sold on the
basis that AIBL would act as Ms agent in a claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 November 2022 explaining why I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Contact about the claim
Ive started by considering the information provided by AIBL when M called to enquire about
making a claim. AIBL havent provided a copy of a call from March 2020 as they said there
isnt one available, although in other correspondence they said there was no record of a call.
I think its likely a call took place as AIBL refer to having listened to a call from March 2020 in
their final response.
M said that, during this call, AIBL said Ms policy wouldnt provide cover. As AIBL arent the
insurer they dont deal with the claim, but they said they told M that they didnt think the
policy provided cover. AIBL told us that this is the information theyd received from the
insurer. Ive reviewed Ms policy and in my experience the insurer didnt think this policy
provided cover. Therefore, I think its likely this is the information that AIBL had been given
and I dont think it was unreasonable for AIBL to pass on information they had received from
the insurer.
Ive then gone on to consider whether AIBL should have done more for M during the claim.
AIBL said the usual process is for them to refer the customer to the insurer to make the
claim directly. Our investigator contacted the insurer to clarify this but didnt receive a
response. However, I can see that the claim number on the policy is for the insurers claims
handlers, so I think this supports what AIBL say should happen.
Ive considered Ms point that the policy was sold on the basis that AIBL would act as an
agent during the handling of claims, but I havent seen anything to persuade me of this. Ive
reviewed AIBLs Terms of Business and while it says that helping you make a claim is a
service they may provide it also says that if a policyholder wishes to make a claim they
should follow the directions in the policy booklet, which in this case is to call the insurers
claim line.
I think its likely that because M complained AIBL agreed to contact the insurer on Ms behalf
to log the claim. AIBL said they called the insurer but were told to put the claim in writing. Its
unfortunate that AIBL initially made an error when emailing the claim to the insurer, but I can
see that AIBL chased the insurer on a few occasions before realising there had been an
error with the email address so despite making an error I think AIBL tried to help M.
The insurer confirmed that they received notification of the claim on 17 September 2020. Its
for the insurer to then deal with the claim so I dont think any further delays are down to
AIBL. I think AIBLs error led to a delay of around a month which I appreciate was frustrating
to Mr W, but I can only consider the impact on M, as a limited company, and not that of       
Mr W. Having done so, I dont think the delay of a month caused sufficient inconvenience for me to require AIBL to compensate for M.
I therefore, dont intend to require AIBL to do anything further in relation to this part of Ms
complaint.
The renewal
I understand from Ms email that following the call on 24 July 2020 M didnt think AIBL had
made enough effort to try to resolve things after M said it had received a more competitive
quote.
Again, I havent been able to listen to the call which took place between AIBL and M
regarding the renewal, but Ive reviewed the email communication which took place
afterwards. Having done so, I havent seen anything to persuade me that AIBL did anything
wrong when renewing Ms policy.
AIBL provided the renewal quote and when M said it had found a more competitive price
AIBL removed their underwriting fee and contacted Ms insurer to ask them to reduce the
premium. AIBL also offered to look for alternative quotes. They have provided a screenshot
to show the quotes they received, and these were for more than the premium M had been
quoted elsewhere.
I havent seen anything other than Ms comments to indicate that AIBL didnt act reasonably
and therefore I dont intend to require AIBL to do anything further.
I recognise this isnt the answer M was hoping for but, having considered things very
carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Neither M nor AIBL responded by the required date. The insurer responded to our previous 
query and said they had let M know the outcome of its claim on 22 September 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither M nor AIBL provided any further comments to change my mind, I see no reason 
to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman