DRN-3478193
The complaint
Ms M and Mr M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE have declined to cover the 
costs of their cancelled holiday. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
Ms M and Mr M held a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes 
Insurance SE. They bought the policy on 9 March 2020, to cover their holiday to a country Ill 
call F, from 17 March 2020 to 21 March 2020 inclusive.
The day before they were due to travel, the holiday accommodation provider told Ms M and 
Mr M their holiday couldnt go ahead due to restrictions imposed by the Government of F. 
They were advised to approach their travel insurance company to recover the costs of their 
unused accommodation  a total of £1400.00 - because the terms and conditions of their 
booking meant they werent entitled to a refund.
Ms M and Mr M submitted a cancellation claim to Great Lakes, which was initially declined 
due to a general exclusion within the policy relating to epidemics and pandemics as declared 
by the World Health Organisation (WHO). 
Great Lakes later changed its position. It explained that as Ms M and Mr M had bought their 
policy before the WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic, the exclusion wouldnt be relied on. 
However, their claim was subsequently declined under a different policy term which related 
to travel advice issued by The Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO).
Great Lakes explained that as Ms M and Mr Ms holiday was cancelled before the FCDO 
issued advice against all travel or all but essential travel on 17 March 2020, there was no 
cancellation cover within the policy terms. It went on to say that had Ms M and Mr M waited 
to cancel their holiday until the travel advice was issued, their unused accommodation costs 
would have been recoverable from the travel provider and as such, Great Lakes position 
had been prejudiced. 
Ms M and Mr M remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator looked into what had happened and thought Great Lakes should accept the 
claim. 
In summary, she thought the FCDO no travel advice issued on the day their holiday should 
have started, meant Ms M and Mr Ms couldnt have gone ahead with their trip, even if their 
accommodation hadnt been cancelled. Thats because the policy also carries an exclusion 
for travelling against FCDO advice. This policy exclusion is referenced in the policy 
documents and on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). The IPID says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel
Our Investigator considered the combination of the policy terms meant Ms M and Mr M had 
no cover under the policy if they didnt follow FCDO advice  and no cover if they did.
Great Lakes disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision and so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why Id reached a different 
outcome to that of our investigator and why. I said:
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M and Mr M but based on everything Ive seen I dont intend to 
uphold their complaint. Let me explain.
The relevant rules and guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) expects insurers to handled claims 
promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim. Ive considered those 
obligations alongside the terms and conditions of Ms M and Mr Ms policy. The terms and 
conditions of the policy are important as they form the basis of the contract between the 
parties.
Of particular importance in this case are the policy terms regarding cancellation cover. Ms M 
and Mr Ms policy lists specific circumstances where claims for cancelled holidays would be 
considered:
Cancellation
This section of the policy sets out the cover we provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits, 
following necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You Your 
Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom You had arranged 
to stay; or
2.Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for Jury 
Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk of the 
Courts Office; or
3.You or Your travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and Your or their authorised leave being cancelled 
due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of Your trip; or
4.You or Your travelling companion being instructed to stay at Home (within 7 days of 
Your departure date) by a relevant authority due to severe damage to Your or their 
Home or place of business in the United Kingdom caused by serious fire, explosion, 
storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or
5. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring:
a.Your compulsory quarantine preventing You from travelling; or
b. That Your destination is unsafe to visit and advising against all travel or all but 
essential travel; or
6.Your involuntary redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse, civil 
partner or cohabiting partner, notified after the purchase of this Policy or after the trip 
was booked, whichever is later.Based on the information provided to me, there were concurrent reasons why Ms M and Mr 
Ms holiday couldnt go ahead. 
The country they had planned to visit announced the closure of all non-essential public 
spaces  including bars, restaurants, non-essential shops and businesses - on 14 March 
2020. 
On 15 March 2020, Ms M and Mr M were notified of the cancellation of their holiday 
accommodation. That notification was followed by a formal cancellation notice dated 16 
March 2020.  
Unfortunately, none of these circumstances match the cancellation reasons listed in their 
policy.
And at the time their accommodation was cancelled, the FCDO in the UK was not advising 
against travel so I dont think its unreasonable for Great Lakes to have concluded that point 
5 of the cancellation cover terms listed above didnt apply.
Ive thought very carefully about whether the travel advice issued on 17 March 2020  the 
same day Ms M and Mr M were due to travel  means Great Lakes should accept that the 
FCDO advice issued was the primary reason they didnt travel, and reconsider the claim. But 
Im not satisfied that would be a fair and reasonable position to take. I say that because the 
restrictions in F were already in place and Ms M and Mr Ms holiday had already been 
cancelled by the time the FCDO issue no travel advice so their decision about not travelling 
had already been made.
Ive also thought about this complaint in terms of the policy exclusion related to travel to a 
country or region where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel 
or all but essential travel. But for the same reason, I dont think that exclusion creates 
tension in the outcome here. 
Ms M and Mr M didnt travel on 17 March 2020 because their holiday had already been 
cancelled. Had their holiday not been cancelled prior to 17 March 2020, Im satisfied the 
policy coverage related to changes in FCDO advice (point 5 above) would have meant their 
cancellation claim could have been considered in line with the remaining policy terms.
Im sorry Ms M and Mr M found themselves in this position. Its a combination of an 
unfortunate set of circumstances that meant they were unable to go ahead with their holiday 
or recover the costs of their unused accommodation.
Ms M and Mr M didnt agree with my provisional findings. 
They reiterated their position that the FCDO no travel advice coming into force on 17 March 
2020 meant they wouldnt have been able to travel even if their accommodation hadnt been 
cancelled.  They went on to say that it was the restrictions introduced in the destination 
country that led the FCDO in the UK to issue its travel advice, and that those restrictions 
demonstrated the country was not safe to enter.
Ive carefully considered the points Ms M and Mr M have made but it doesnt lead me to 
reach a different conclusion. 
Travel insurance doesnt provide cover for all eventualities. Its for an insurer to decide what 
level of cover it wishes to provide, and the premium charged to cover the risk. In line with 
many other travel insurance providers, the policy Ms M and Mr M purchased offered 
additional cover, for an additional premium, under its extended travel disruption add-on. This add-on may have provided cover when their accommodation was cancelled. Unfortunately, 
the policy details Ive seen show Ms M and Mr M didnt have this additional cover in place.
I understand and have the upmost sympathy for the situation they found themselves in due 
to a global pandemic, but the cover they purchased did not offer protection in the specific 
circumstances of their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman