DRN-3224717
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mishandled his legal expenses claim.
Aviva use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
First, Mr C has made a considerable number of submissions about the handling of his claim, 
and Ive read and considered everything he has sent in. But I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail. Ill be focussing on what I consider to be the crux of his complaint. So, if I dont 
mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it in order to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
Mr C says he was not given the freedom to choose his own solicitor at any stage of his 
claim, despite requesting it several times. But the evidence suggests he was aware that he 
could have chosen his own solicitor. For example, Aviva have provided a copy of the cover 
letter sent to policyholders after a claim is deemed to fall within scope of cover, which clearly 
sets out that its is a condition of the policy that a panel firm is instructed prior to the issue of 
court proceedings, but that the insureds own solicitor can be appointed after court 
proceedings have been issued. 
The option of appointing his own solicitor is also set out in the policy terms and conditions:
Freedom to choose your lawyer
(i) If court proceedings are issued, there is a conflict of interest or if we consider 
the claim to be complex and requiring a specialist lawyer, you are free to 
choose your own lawyer by sending us their name and address.
So, Im satisfied Mr C ought reasonably to have known the circumstances in which he could 
choose to appoint his own solicitor if he wanted to do so. There is also nothing wrong with 
the insurer insisting on the use of their own panel solicitors prior to proceedings being 
issued, as this is in line with Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses 
Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the 1990 Regulations). 
Further, when Mr C was waiting on the panel solicitors to finalise their assessment of his 
claim, he was told by Aviva that he could either wait for them to issue it, or that they could 
instead instruct counsel to issue an opinion if he wished to use his own preferred solicitors. 
The insurer said it was prepared to do this at that stage as Mr C had received his 
Employment Tribunal certificate (which would allow proceedings to be issued). However, 
Mr C agreed to wait for the panel solicitors assessment and to continue being represented 
by them. So, Im satisfied that Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of the option to 
appoint his own preferred solicitor, and that he was also given this option by Aviva early on 
in the process of his claim.
Ive also seen nothing that would suggest Mr C was forced to use the services of the 
insurers panel solicitor, apart from the point before proceedings were issued, which they 
were entitled to do in line with the 1990 Regulations. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr Cs 
case was so complex or exceptional that it required his own lawyer to be appointed from the 
outset, and Im afraid that having his own lawyer in closer proximity to him, or the fact that 
they knew the history and context of the claim, does not constitute an exceptional reason to 
trigger freedom of choice either. I appreciate that Mr C suffers from a rare disability and feels 
he would have benefited from face to face meetings. But this does not mean that the panel 
solicitor would have been incapable of acting for him as a result, and Im not persuaded that 
Mr Cs legal claim could have only been pursued by way of in person meetings either. 
I also understand that there are several phone calls that Aviva have not been able to provide 
due to technical issues, which Mr C says would show he did request the use of his own 
solicitors. Its unfortunate that not all call recordings are available in this case, and I 
understand that Mr C feels strongly that they should be provided. But our service can only 
assess complaints based on the evidence provided. If he wants to hold Aviva to strict 
evidentiary standards of disclosure and discovery, then his complaint would be better suited 
to court rather than the informal nature of dispute resolution adopted by this service. In any 
event, no other evidence Ive seen (such as call notes) suggests that any requests to appoint 
his solicitor after proceedings had been issued were either made by Mr C or denied by 
Aviva. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that he was prevented from appointing his own 
solicitor at any stage where he would have been entitled to do so under the policy terms and 
conditions and 1990 Regulations.
Mr C is also unhappy with the legal costs charged by the panel solicitor and does not 
understand how they used over £35,000 of his indemnity. However, this service is unable to 
consider the actions of solicitors or the fees that they charge; I can only consider the acts or 
omissions of the insurer, and I dont consider they have mismanaged the claim by agreeing 
to the panel solicitors funding requests, as this was in line with legal advice they had 
received. If Mr C does have concerns about the fees charged by the solicitor, or the time it 
took them to provide him with a breakdown of such costs, he will need to take this up with 
them directly and/or the Legal Ombudsman. 
I also appreciate Mr C may have found a solicitor that charges less than Avivas panel 
solicitor had quoted. But that does not mean that the panel solicitors rates are 
disproportionately high, or that Aviva have acted unreasonably by instructing them. Indeed, 
there are several factors that could influence the fees charged by a solicitor, including the 
level of fee earner assigned to a case (ranging from a paralegal to a senior partner, for 
example), the location of the solicitor, as well as the complexity of the claim. So, the fact that 
one solicitor may charge more than another does not mean they are charging unfairly. 
I understand that Mr C is also unhappy because he considers he should have been entitled to the full £50,000 indemnity before his claim was withdrawn, which he was also told by 
Aviva. Ive seen no evidence that would suggest Mr C was promised the full indemnity 
irrespective of proportionality. His claim was deemed not to be proportionate as the solicitors 
advised the most he could hope to achieve by way of settlement was £26,000 to £36,000. By 
the time cover was withdrawn, over £35,000 of the indemnity had already been used, 
meaning the claim was therefore not proportionate to pursue any longer. But an insurer does 
not need to wait until the indemnity limit is exhausted before withdrawing cover. If it comes to 
light that a claim is no longer proportionate to pursue, they are entitled to withdraw cover at 
that point. This is also clearly set out in the policy terms and conditions, and the insurers 
decision to withdraw funding was informed by advice provided by legal professionals, which 
they are reasonably entitled to rely on. So I do not consider Aviva to have done anything 
wrong by withdrawing the claim when they did, and I see no fair and reasonable basis in 
which Mr C should also be entitled to any remaining indemnity in these circumstances.
I note there are also other points Mr C has raised regarding the actions of the panel 
solicitors, such as their failure to anticipate certain obstacles put in place by the respondent 
to his legal action, which he says delayed the claim and increased his costs. However, as 
Ive already set out above, this service is unable to consider complaints about solicitors or 
anything to do with their handling of legal claims. If Mr C is unhappy with the way the panel 
solicitors dealt with his claim, he would need to raise this with the Legal Ombudsman 
instead. 
In summary, while I appreciate there may have been aspects of Avivas handling of the claim 
that could have been better, Im unable to conclude theyve done anything substantially 
wrong such that an award of compensation would be warranted. And overall, Im satisfied 
they have handled the claim fairly and acted in line with the advice provided by the panel 
solicitors. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I will not be directing 
Aviva to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman