DRN-4118880
The complaint
Mr K complains about the level of service provided by Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
in administering his motor insurance policy. He wants his money returned, his credit rating 
reinstated, and his card details deleted from Hastings records.
 
What happened
Mr K wanted to make a change to his policy administered by Hastings. But he was unable to 
make this change online as he couldnt access his account. Mr K didnt call Hastings as he 
dislikes using telephone services. And he couldnt cancel the account online. So Mr K 
cancelled his direct debit. 
He was then unhappy that Hastings sent him emails and letters which he found threatening. 
He was then unhappy that Hastings took its cancellation charge using his card details. 
Hastings said Mr K could have contacted it by phone to sort out the access problem or to 
make the change. But it offered to backdate the cancellation to the date Mr K took out cover 
elsewhere. Mr K remained unhappy.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
accepted that there was a problem with Mr Ks access to his account. But he thought Mr K 
could have contacted Hastings by telephone or email to resolve this. He thought Hastings 
had fairly applied cancellation charges in keeping with its terms of business. 
He thought its letters and emails werent threatening but contained the information Hastings 
was required to provide about the policys cancellation. He thought Mr K had agreed to a 
Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) when he set up the policy. And he thought Hastings 
offer to backdate the cancellation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr K said hed taken out the policy because Hastings said he wouldnt have to contact it by 
telephone. He said Hastings should have fixed the problem with his account. He didnt agree 
that the CPA should be used after the policy had cancelled. He said Hastings offer to 
backdate the cancellation was meaningless as his partner had taken out the new insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr K felt frustrated that he couldnt access his online account to make 
a change of car on the policy or to then cancel the policy. He said he made many attempts to 
use it without success. 
In his complaint to us, Mr K provided us with his account of what happened. He said he tried 
to make the changes for a few days. And then, in frustration, he cancelled his direct debit. 
From his account, I think Mr K did this in order to prompt a response from Hastings to the 
issue with his online account.
Our Investigator has explained that we think its reasonable for consumers to try and mitigate 
their losses. So, although I can understand that Mr K doesnt agree, I think he should have 
contacted Hastings to alert it to the problems he was having with his account to give it an 
opportunity to remedy this before he cancelled his direct debit. He could have called 
Hastings, or he could have emailed it using the details on his policy documents. 
So Hastings wasnt then aware of the account issues, just that Mr K had cancelled his direct 
debit. And so Hastings responded by bringing the cancelled direct debit to Mr Ks attention 
and warning him of the potential consequences. Ive looked at this and its later letters and 
Im satisfied that they clearly explain the consequences of Mr Ks action for his policy and his 
contract with Hastings. I dont find them threatening. 
Mr K said he emailed Hastings, but he didnt receive a response until he later contacted its 
customer services and made a complaint. In the meantime, Mr K cancelled his policy and 
Hastings processed the cancellation. And then Hastings asked Mr K to pay the outstanding 
balance of his account, which included its cancellation fee.
When Mr K took out his policy through Hastings, it sent him a Welcome Pack. This stated 
amongst other things, 
You've agreed to continuous payment authority (CPA)
This means you're giving us the right to take future payments from your credit or debit card. 
It's a great way for us to quickly collect any future payments without taking up your time. But 
don't worry, we'll always contact you beforehand to let you know when and why this is 
happening. And if you're not happy, you can contact us to cancel the agreement at any 
time.
I note that the explanation refers to future payments, not to premiums. The pack also 
includes details of Hastings fees, including those where the policy is cancelled. There is a 
£45 cancellation charge where the policy is cancelled after 14 days, which I think is fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with other brokers charges. And Mr K is also required to pay 
the insurers charge for his time on cover, in keeping with standard industry practice. And as 
Mr K was paying his premium by monthly direct debit, this would include the interest on his 
loan as explained in his credit agreement. 
Mr K had cancelled his policy. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for Hastings to apply 
its charges in keeping with its Terms of Business and to pass on the insurers charges. And 
Im satisfied that Hastings was entitled by the CPA to deduct a payment from Mr Ks card 
details. It informed Mr K of the impending payment, as it said it would. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong in this.   
Hastings upheld Mr Ks complaint and agreed that his account wasnt working correctly for 
him. When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
I think Hastings reasonably offered to backdate the cancellation of the policy by a week on 
provision of evidence of the date that Mr K had taken out cover elsewhere. As Mr K hadnt 
done this, I dont think Hastings needs to do anything further to restore Mr Ks position. 
I can understand that Mr K was caused frustration by his account not working correctly. But, 
as Ive said above, I think he should have given Hastings an opportunity to remedy this. 
Hastings apologised to Mr K for any inconvenience caused. And I think thats sufficient 
consideration of the impact of its error as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman