DRN-3009053
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the delays in Aviva Insurance Limited dealing with a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, rather it is the compensation amount Mr B has received 
which he remains unhappy with, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
In considering Mr Bs claim, its important to say that in any accident theres always a 
level of inconvenience that will be caused. And in the event of a total loss, valuing a 
vehicle and all parties agreeing on a settlement can take some time.
That said, Mr B waited longer than he shouldve for his claim to be settled, and he 
had to chase Aviva on occasions to ensure his claim moved forward. Mr B shouldnt 
have had to do this, and I can understand having to make telephone calls during 
working hours mustve been both frustrating and stressful for him.
Its clear Aviva caused some delays in dealing with Mr Bs claim, theyve 
acknowledged they couldve been more proactive, paying him £100 in compensation.
After Mr Bs vehicle was collected from storage by Avivas agent it took too long for 
Aviva to instruct the valuation to be completed. Once valued, Mr B had to contact 
Aviva to get updates on his claim. I agree Aviva couldve done better up to this point.
In addition, prior to the delay in instruction a valuation, it took four working days after 
the accident for Mr Bs care to be collected from storage and taken to the third-party 
company. Aviva acknowledge theyd normally expect this to happen within two 
working days.
However, after Aviva instructed the valuation, it was completed within two days and 
whilst it took a further ten days for the valuation to be agreed, its clear throughout 
this time the valuation was in dispute in and a further claim was raised for personal 
possessions within the vehicle at the time of the accident.
Mr Bs settlement was paid three days after the valuation was agreed along with an 
additional payment for a child seat on the same day. Im satisfied after the valuation 
was instructed by Aviva there were no further excessive delays on their part. 
Taking into consideration the delays caused by Aviva as a whole Im satisfied £100 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr B suffered.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Avivas compensation payment was a fair one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman