DRN-4000731
The complaint
Mr M complaints that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him the money he lost after he fell victim 
to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows. 
Mr M met someone online who encouraged him to invest in cryptocurrency. This individual 
portrayed himself as an expert in such matters and struck up a relationship with Mr M which 
meant Mr M trusted him and his advice. But unfortunately this individual was a fraudster. 
The fraudster encouraged Mr M to make a number of investments which led to Mr M 
making payments from the account he held with Monzo, as well as payments from accounts 
he held with other banking providers. Unknown to Mr M at the time, the payments would 
ultimately end up in accounts controlled by the fraudsters. This final decision only relates to 
the payments Mr M made from his Monzo bank account.
In order to invest, Mr M looked for individuals selling cryptocurrency via a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. Upon finding these sellers, he made payments to them in 
exchange for cryptocurrency which he received into a cryptocurrency account, before being 
tricked into sending it on to the fraudsters. 
Mr M made the following three payments from his Monzo account, totalling £1,745;
27 November 2020 £955
27 November 2020 £90
4 December 2020 £700
Mr M realised hed fallen victim to a scam when he was unable to withdraw any funds from 
his cryptocurrency account. This was because Mr M was told the account was locked and 
to unlock it hed need to send across more money, causing him to become suspicious.
Mr M reported the scam to Monzo in early January 2021. Monzo looked into Mr Ms 
complaint and issued its final response on 4 August 2021 not upholding his complaint.  
Initially Mr M denied making the payments, but once it became clear he had authorised the 
payments having fallen victim to a scam, Monzo felt Mr M shouldve taken more care and 
that it shouldnt bear any responsibility for Mr Ms loss.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary our Investigator 
didnt think that the payments Mr M made were covered by the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code).
The CRM Code is a voluntary code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo 
is not a signatory to the CRM Code, but has agreed to adhere to the provisions of it. But 
where our Investigator didnt consider the payments were covered by the Code, he said this 
meant Monzo didnt have to consider reimbursing Mr M under its provisions. Our Investigator 
went on to think about Monzos role in protecting customers from financial harm from fraud, 
but he didnt think the payments Mr M made were remarkable enough to have warranted 
concern, particularly as there was very little previous account history to compare the 
payments to.
  
Mr M didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary his representative felt Monzo 
shouldve been concerned about the payments, particularly as Mr M was making payments 
to new payees and within a one-week period.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
the Investigator.
Theres no question that Mr M authorised the payments in dispute here. That means that 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 hes presumed liable for the losses in the first 
instance.
I agree with the Investigator that the payments Mr M made are not covered by the CRM 
Code. This is because the CRM Code defines an authorised push payment scam as;
A transfer of funds executed across faster payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, 
authorised by a Customer in accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where:
i. The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
ii. The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed to be 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
Here, Mr M transferred funds to sellers who were advertising the sale of cryptocurrency.     
Mr M transferred money to those sellers who provided him with what he asked for  in this 
case cryptocurrency. Essentially Mr M got what he paid for at this point, the scam only 
occurred when Mr M sent the cryptocurrency on to the fraudsters, from his cryptocurrency 
account.
But that isnt the end of the story, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I think Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years.
- In some circumstances, have taken additional steps or made additional checks 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Given the above, Ive thought carefully about the payments Mr M made, and whether Monzo 
shouldve been concerned that Mr M might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Having 
done so Im not persuaded the payments he made were remarkable enough for Monzo to 
have intervened and questioned Mr M as to the purpose of the payments before processing 
them.
Mr Ms representative has said that the fact Mr M paid new payees over the course of a 
week ought to have prompted Monzo to be concerned and shouldve triggered an 
intervention. 
Monzo has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. In this particular 
case, Mr Ms account had only been open for a short period of time, and so Monzo didnt 
have previous account activity to compare these payments to. Its also the case that, while I 
dont doubt the payments represented a lot of money to Mr M, they are of values which I 
dont think would have appeared so suspicious or unusual to Monzo, when compared with 
other payments that it processes on a daily basis. 
So overall I dont consider the payments Mr M made to have been remarkable enough to 
have warranted Monzo to take action and contact Mr M ahead of processing the payments.
Mr Ms representatives added that Monzo wouldve been aware of cryptocurrency scams at 
the time Mr M made the payments and had the payments triggered, it couldve alerted him to 
the risks of proceeding with the payments. Ive explained why I dont think Monzo ought to 
have asked questions about the payments before processing them. But its also relevant 
that, in this case, Mr M was paying individuals rather than a cryptocurrency exchange  this 
meant Monzo wouldnt have been aware of any heightened risk of harm from fraud 
associated with cryptocurrency investment. However, even if the payments had gone directly 
to a cryptocurrency account, people can and do legitimately invest in cryptocurrency, so it 
doesnt automatically follow that Monzo ought to have been concerned even if the payments 
had gone directly to cryptocurrency accounts.
Ive thought about whether Monzo could have recovered any of the funds Mr M lost when it 
was made aware of the scam. But given the funds had been exchanged into cryptocurrency 
and then been moved onto accounts controlled by the fraudsters, I dont think Monzo would 
have been able to recover any funds. It follows that I dont think it missed an opportunity to 
recover the money Mr M sadly lost. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr M being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on him, not just financially but also because the fraudster 
deceived him and gained his trust. But I dont find that Monzo has acted unfairly in 
processing the payments Mr M made and in turn Ive decided Monzo isnt responsible for 
reimbursing him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman