DRN-3746311
The complaint
Mrs W complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined her credit limit increase 
application. 
What happened
Mrs W applied to increase the credit limit on her Nationwide credit card account in June and 
July 2022. Nationwide didnt agree to Mrs Ws request. Mrs W wasnt happy about this as 
she felt her financial position was such that her request should have been approved.
Mrs W raised a complaint with Nationwide and was it was explained that it had made the 
correct decision and it would not be able to increase the limit. 
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response Mrs W referred her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide had acted 
unfairly towards Mrs W by not increasing the credit limit on her account. Mrs W remained 
unhappy, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. Such decisions are based on many factors. This includes the 
consumers current financial situation and how theyve managed their finances, as well as 
the lenders own appetite for risk and wider economic conditions at the time of the application 
(its lending criteria). 
In this instance, Mrs W was requesting a significant credit limit increase and the information 
provided from Nationwide shows that the lending application was reviewed by the 
underwriting team and declined as it was outside its own lending criteria. I understand that 
Mrs W would like to better understand why her request for further credit wasnt approved. 
But a credit provider isnt obliged to provide detailed reasons for a declined credit application 
to a customer. This is because a such information is commercially sensitive and confidential. 
While I acknowledge Mrs W says she has been a long standing and loyal customer to 
Nationwide, having reviewed the evidence provided, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt treated 
Mrs W unfairly or unreasonably. It has assessed her application and it was declined as it 
didnt meet Nationwides lending criteria which is a decision it is entitled to make. Its also a 
decision we cant interfere with
So while I can appreciate Mrs Ws frustration here and Im sorry to disappoint her, I wont be 
instructing Nationwide to do anything further in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman