DRN-3924707
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Aviva Insurance Limited regarding a problem he 
had adding his grandson to his policy.
What happened
Mr S had a policy with Aviva in December 2021. Partway through the policy year, in 
June 2022, Mr S tried to add his grandson to the cover. He did this on-line, received an error 
message and emailed Aviva to ask what the problem was. Following a reply from Aviva, 
Mr S assumed he would need to wait to add his grandson to the policy until he had turned 
21. After his grandson became 21, Mr S tried again. At this time each attempt to add him 
generated a link to a temporary insurance provider. Mr S emailed Aviva again and was 
subsequently told that his grandson could not be added to that years policy because he had 
not been 21 at the start of the policy year. Mr S complained.
Aviva said that during the email conversation following Mr Ss second attempt to add his 
grandson, it had explained the correct policy position to him. And it said its policy document 
also explains that it will tell a policyholder, trying to make a change on the policy, whether or 
not that is possible, once it is made aware of what the requested change is.
Mr S complained to us. He said that Aviva should be explicitly clear about this as it is not 
normal industry practice to prevent drivers being added to cover, even those under the age 
of 21. It should certainly be listed as an exclusion in the policy documents. He said if he had 
known he wouldnt have arranged the cover in the first place. Or even if he had been told 
when he made the initial enquiries about the error message, he wouldnt have wasted more 
time after his grandsons birthday trying again to add him to the policy. Mr S also said he 
wasnt convinced that it was Avivas usual policy to not add those just turning 21 to currently 
existing policies. He said his children had added his grandson before to their Aviva policy, 
and his policy with Aviva, even though he had no young driver (aged 21  24) on it, set out 
what the excess cost for a young driver would be. Mr S said he felt that indicated that Aviva 
would be open to adding a driver, during the policy year, once they became 21 years old.
Our investigator noted Mr Ss concerns. But she was satisfied that Aviva wasnt prepared to 
offer cover for Mr Ss grandson due to his age and didnt feel this was something Aviva 
should reasonably have set out in its policy document. And she noted that once Mr S told 
Aviva that his grandson had only just turned 21, it explained that he couldnt be added due to 
what his age had been when the policy began. She felt Aviva had acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr S remained unhappy. He maintained that Aviva shouldve been clearer about its condition 
on the age of additional drivers. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why this was frustrating for Mr S  he and his family had obtained cover for his 
grandson before, so Aviva not being willing to offer this, was unexpected. Especially 
because Mr S had seen nothing which might have alerted him to this possibility  not when 
arranging cover or when making his enquiry with Aviva about why he was receiving an error 
message when hed just tried to add his grandson. Further the problem  being his 
grandsons age at the start of the cover  was only identified during further correspondence 
with Aviva. From Mr Ss perspective then, I can see why that all seems unsatisfactory at best 
and somewhat suspicious at worst. But I need to look at this from Avivas side too.
Aviva, as any insurer, is entitled to make its own choices about what risks it is prepared to 
accept when offering cover. What is acceptable to Aviva, may not be acceptable to another 
insurer, and vice versa. Further, Aviva, across its range of motor insurance products, offers 
different types of policies  different prices and different levels of cover. So what risks it will 
accept may vary between those products as well. When cover is offered, policy documents 
are issued. Those documents set out for the insurer and the policyholder what the basis of 
the current cover is. They provide specific detail about the cover but they arent entirely 
bespoke. Meaning therell likely be some general clauses included which may not apply to 
the exact cover in question, such as the applicable excess for drivers aged between 
21 and 24 even where none are currently on the existing policy. And, no policy booklet will 
include details of everything which is not covered, or not possible for Aviva to cover. 
I also have to bear in mind that whilst having cover for his grandson was clearly important to 
Mr S, Aviva had no way of knowing that, or of the relevant details of Mr Ss grandson that 
would be important to its consideration of cover. And Aviva, as an insurer, has a multitude of 
different factors to take into account for all of its policyholders, prospective policyholders and 
insured drivers. With those factors also being subject to change over time, Aviva, like most 
insurers, constantly reviews its appetite for risk and resultant acceptance criterion.
So, even when Mr S corresponded about the error message he had received in June, I dont 
think Aviva should reasonably have thought to flag the age issue at that time. And once, 
during further correspondence, Mr S let Aviva know what his grandsons birthday was, Aviva 
did explain its acceptance criteria to him  that his grandson would have needed to have 
been 21 at the start of the policy year to be able to be added, at any time, to that years 
contract for cover. And Im mindful that the policy booklet does say that once Aviva is 
informed of a required change, it will consider that and advise whether or not its possible. 
I think Aviva did that here. 
I know Mr S feels he wasted time trying to make this change and that this could have been 
avoided if Aviva had told him sooner about the age restriction. But, as Ive said I dont think 
this was something Aviva should have imparted as part of its standard policy information, or 
which it should reasonably have foreseen as specific information Mr S needed to be told 
about it. I bear in mind that insurance products are complex in nature and that sometimes, 
through no fault of either party, it takes a bit of direct contact to get to the heart of the 
question or issue in hand. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to say 
Aviva should compensate Mr S for the time he spent trying to add his grandson to his policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman