DRN-3601340
The complaint
Miss G complains through her representative that 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent her 
money on a high cost loan that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Miss G with a loan on 21 March 2017 for £3,500, repayable over 
24 months at the rate of around £338 a month. 
Miss G complained that she couldnt afford the repayments  she said she had several open 
payday loans. She felt 118 118 Money should have carried more detailed checks before 
lending her the money. She got into difficulties over the payments and had to enter into a 
debt management plan. The loan was sold on to a third party in May 2018.
118 118 Money said it carried out verification checks of Miss Gs income and credit record. It 
also obtained data from the questions asked of Miss G during the application process. It 
assessed that she was able to afford the loan.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that from the information 
118 118 Money obtained there was nothing that showed it should have carried out more 
checks and that the loan appeared to be affordable.
Miss G didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss G would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Gs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
From the credit report, I can see that Miss G had one mail order account with a balance of 
£765. The report showed no further active loans or credit. Whilst she may have previously 
had loans, these had been paid up, so wouldnt been of concern in considering lending 
further money. The credit report wouldnt necessarily have shown everything, particularly 
loans issued recently. it was up to Miss G to give accurate information about her 
circumstances.
The amount Miss G would have been spending on credit commitments, after the loan was 
issued would have been about 25% of her income. I think this would be reasonable, 
provided she had enough disposable income to pay the loan.
Miss G at the time was single, living at home with her parents. Her income was verified as 
being around £1,500 a month. Her living expenses were assessed at £235 a month from the 
information given by her in her application. Even allowing for unexpected expenses this still 
should have given Miss G sufficient disposable income to easily afford the loan. As Ive said 
it was up to her to tell 118 118 Money if she had any other expenses which might have 
affected her ability to pay the loan.
I think 118 118 Money did carry out a proportionate check of Miss Gs ability to afford the 
loan. I can see nothing in that check that would have alerted it to carry out any further 
investigations. So, I think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman