DRN-2818811
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly allowed 
him to open a credit card account and then increased the credit limit.
What happened
Mr D says Barclaycards lending was unaffordable and it ought to have been obvious to it 
that he was in debt and financial difficulties. He says he told Barclaycard about his financial 
position, but it said he didnt. He also says the lending caused a downward spiral of debt. Mr 
D would like Barclaycard to write off his debt and pay him compensation and also complains 
about how Barclaycard has handled his complaint.
Barclaycard says Mr D opened the account in 2015 and declared an income of £21,000 a 
year. It says it carried out appropriate checks on the application and carried out credit file 
checks. Barclaycard says it calculated that Mr D had disposable income per month of over 
£380 and had no adverse information on his credit file. It says Mr D made required payments 
until March 2018 but didnt tell it about financial difficulties until some time after. Barclaycard 
says its offered compensation to Mr D and other customers for possibly setting credit limits 
too high but says the credit limit here was appropriate as well as the two increases in 2016.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had carried out appropriate checks on Mr Ds application and on the 
credit limit increases. And didnt think there were signs of financial difficulties until 2018. The 
investigator thought Mr D told Barclaycard about his financial difficulties in 2019 but accepts 
it shouldnt have said in its final response letter that there wasnt any contact.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and in summary says he did tell Barclaycard about his position 
and questions why calls to him were not recorded. He says Barclaycard didnt investigate his 
complaint properly as it would have come to a different conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on credit 
and loan applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of lending 
and the amount involved. This was an application for a credit facility and not for example a 
loan or mortgage.
I can see that Mr D applied for the credit card account in 2015 and declared an income of 
over £20,000 a year. I can see that Barclaycard assessed Mr Ds outgoings and carried out 
checks on his credit file. I have not seen any evidence of adverse information on Mr Ds 
credit file at that time and can see Barclaycard took that into consideration. So, Im satisfied 
that Barclaycard did carry out appropriate, proportionate and reasonable checks on Mr Ds 
application and that the lending was affordable.
I can see that Mr D manged his account appropriately after it was opened and made 
required payments. I can also see that Barclaycard carried out further checks on the 
affordability of the two credit limit increases and fairly took into account how Mr D had 
managed his account. So, I dont think the decision to increase the credit limits in 2016 was 
unaffordable or irresponsible.
Im satisfied that Mr D continued to manage his account appropriately for some significant 
time after the last credit limit increase and that provides further evidence that the lending 
was affordable. I also think that Barclaycard allowed a relatively modest credit limit of £400 
which was increased to what I think was still a modest level of £1,000 in 2016.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
the credit application and on the later credit limit increases. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Barclaycard to refund any interest, charges or pay compensation. I make clear to Mr D that 
even if I thought the lending was unaffordable then I would not have ordered the balance he 
owes be written off as clearly, he had the benefit of that money.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But I cant see any evidence that Mr D told Barclaycard about such 
difficulties until some years after the lending and credit limit increases. I can see that 
Barclaycard has given Mr D details of organisations that could help him and provided details 
of its specialist team. So, Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted fairly when told about Mr Ds 
financial and other difficulties. I dont think it matters that Mr Ds contact information was 
incorrect in Barclaycards letter.
I make clear to Mr D that we cant consider complaint handling complaints for the reasons 
the investigator explained. I appreciate Mr D says Barclaycard didnt carry out a full 
investigation into his complaint and would have reached a different conclusion if it had. But 
Im satisfied Barclaycard has provided us with enough information and evidence for me to 
fairly conclude that it acted fairly and didnt make a mistake. I also think its up to Barclaycard 
to decide if it records a telephone call and that its fairly offered to pay compensation in 
circumstances where I cant fairly conclude its made a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman