DRN-2063832
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the amount shes been charged for her home insurance policy over 
the years. The insurance policy was with St Andrews Insurance Plc.  
What happened
Ms H took out home insurance with St Andrews in 2006 and it automatically renewed every 
year up until 2019. Mrs H was concerned about how much she was being charged for her 
policy, particularly over the last few years when it had been in excess of £1,000.
When Ms H had spoken to friends about how much she was paying they laughed at her and 
said she was crazy to be paying so much. Ms H contacted St Andrews about this, and they 
were able to offer her another policy for around half the price, as a result of this, Ms H felt 
angry and that her loyalty had been taken advantage of.
St Andrews looked into the matter for Ms H and said they hadnt overcharged her. And that 
shed always been free to shop around if she was unhappy with each renewal offered.
Unhappy with this, Ms H brought the matter to our service.
In the meantime, St Andrews reflected on the matter and decided to make an offer to Ms H, 
this comprised a refund of some premiums, totalling around £2,000 and including interest, 
plus £100 compensation. An investigator here looked into the matter and felt St Andrews 
had charged Ms H more than it ought to have done. But he thought the offer being made 
was fair in the circumstances.
Ms H disagreed, she felt like St Andrews had knowingly overcharged her and that it had just 
dismissed her as a valued customer. Ms H said this was exacerbated by them telling her to 
use our service instead of making an offer to begin with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may first help for me to explain a little about the way St Andrews was pricing their policies. 
They provided new customers with discounts as a way of being competitive. They then 
gradually increased the price to bring the policy up to what they felt was the right price, given 
their view of risk and needs as a business to make a profit.
On the face of things, there was nothing wrong with St Andrews doing this. And during the 
early years it seems Ms H was aware that shopping around may be beneficial, as she 
mentioned it when negotiating a reduction in her policy excess.
The price increases in the early years were the type Id expect to see in this scenario, and I 
note Ms H made a claim in 2009 and increased her cover in 2011.
Its very difficult to say what the right price for cover is and when increases might start to 
become unfair but by 2013, Ms Hs policy was costing over £700. Taking account of the 
above, and that Ms H hadnt engaged with St Andrews for some time, I think the increases 
beyond the price in 2013 started to become unfair.
Because of this, St Andrews have said theyll refund some of the premiums charged from 
2014 onwards. The amount being refunded is that which was over and above what it would 
have been if St Andrews had realised Ms H was no longer engaging with them. And this 
works out that Ms H wouldve been paying less than the 2013 price for those remaining 
years.
I think this is fair. I appreciate Ms H may not feel its enough and that the policy in her view 
would still have been an expensive one. That may be the case, but I cant uphold a 
complaint about St Andrews simply because their competitors may have been cheaper. I 
also appreciate Ms H was offered another cheaper policy by St Andrews in 2019, but thats 
likely to have included an introductory discount so wouldnt necessarily reflect the risk. And 
they wouldnt have been able to offer an introductory discount every year, so if Ms H had 
been able to take the cheaper one earlier, the price wouldnt have always stayed that low.
Its worth noting too that not all policies are the same and some may not be as suitable as 
others. So, a like for like comparison with other insurers isnt always possible, or therefore as 
helpful as comparing things which are identical.
Ms H has clearly found this matter very upsetting. It would have been embarrassing to have 
friends laugh at her when the problem arose. And to then find out a policy around half the 
price could be offered straight away caused obvious upset and anger. Ms H has also said 
she feels like St Andrews dismissed her as a loyal customer by failing to put things right at 
the first opportunity.
I understand why Ms H feels this way and it wouldve been preferable if St Andrews had 
made the offer more promptly. But I feel the addition of interest addresses the delay and the 
£100 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Ms H the following:
£2066.86, representing a refund of premiums charged unfairly in the circumstances
Interest* at the rate of 8% per annum simple to be added to the above, from the date 
payments were made to the date refunds are issued
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused
*HM Revenue and Customs requires St Andrews to deduct tax from this interest.
St Andrews must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if she 
asks for one.
My final decisionIt is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman