DRN-1456090
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund her payments 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG). She feels it has treated her unfairly.  
What happened
Mrs J had a contract with a holiday company who I shall call A. She arranged to pay A by 
monthly direct debit from her Halifax account. In January 2019, Mrs J says she contacted A 
to cancel the direct debit instruction and that A sent her a letter confirming it had carried out 
her request. 
However, between January and June 2019, A continued to collect payments from the 
account. Mrs J says she only realised what had happened in September 2019, when she 
checked her statements. She contacted Halifax and asked it to refund the payments under 
the DDG. 
Halifax looked into things but declined to refund the payments. It said that as A had gone 
into liquidation it couldnt now invoke the DDG because there was no mechanism for it to 
reclaim the money back. It referred Mrs J to the other organisations that it thought could 
help. 
Mrs J didnt accept Halifaxs explanation and contacted our service. She said she knew of 
other customers who had got their money back using the DDG so Halifax was treating her 
unfairly. She also provided evidence that the other organisation couldnt help. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but they didnt uphold it. Mrs J didnt agree so her 
complaint was passed to me for decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding the complaint. I realise Mrs J will be disappointed, so Ill 
explain why.
Mrs J says she cancelled the direct debit instruction with A in January 2019. And that she 
received a letter from it confirming this. So, she believes a payment error was made and 
shes entitled to a refund under the guarantee.  
The purpose of the guarantee is to protect customers who've allowed a third party 
permission to take payments directly from their account. If a payment error is made - either 
by the bank/building society or by the business collecting payment (the originator), then they 
should be able to get an immediate refund from the bank. In turn, the bank will get repaid by 
the originator, under the direct debit indemnity.
One of the key issues for me to decide here is was there a payment error? Ive thought 
about what Mrs J has said, including the information the investigator gathered from her more 
recently. But Im afraid the available evidence doesnt support there was a payment error. 
Mrs J hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to support she cancelled the instruction. 
While I note she says she threw away As letter, there isnt a copy or any other information to 
support the cancellation.
Ive also considered the wider circumstances.  And I cant see why if Mrs J had cancelled the 
direct debit, she wouldnt have then checked her account the following month or the month 
after that. The amount of the direct debit payment was relatively high compared to a lot of 
the other day to day expenditure on the account. So, if Mrs J had cancelled the instruction, I 
would have expected her to have identified the payments sooner than she did - her 
statements show that she was using the account actively.  But she didnt do so for nine 
months and immediately after A announced that it was going into liquidation. I note what Mrs 
J has said about this but in my view she hasnt provided a satisfactory explanation which 
explains the delay. Taking everything into account, on balance, it seems more likely Mrs J 
only raised the matter with Halifax after learning A had got into difficulties to see if the DDG 
would assist her in getting a refund. 
I can understand why Mrs J wants to get her money back. Its a lot of money for her to lose 
and not get any benefit from. But Im afraid having looked at the available evidence, theres 
nothing persuasive to support theres been a payment error.  Where thats the case there 
arent any grounds for a refund under the DDG.  
When Mrs J contacted Halifax, it looked at her claim in terms of A going into liquidation to 
explain why it couldnt take things further. This all happened in September when A went into 
liquidation. While this didnt strictly apply to Mrs J (as explained above,) I dont think Halifax 
has treated her unfairly because Mrs J wasnt entitled to a refund under the DDG. In the 
circumstances, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman