DRN-2275416
The complaint
Mr T complained about HSBC UK Bank Ltd. He said that it: 
- had provided contradictory information about incoming payments which hadnt 
reached his account; and
- hadnt worked with the sender of the payments, hadnt told Mr T what had happened 
to the payments, and hadnt advised him when the payments arrived.
Mr T wants compensation.
What happened
Mr T was expecting two complaint compensation payments from an airline. One was for 
£1,038.81 and the other for £183.87, making a total of £1,222.48. Mr T expected these on 8 
March 2020, but they didnt arrive.
Mr T contacted HSBC on 11 March. HSBC said it hadnt received any payments. Mr T 
checked his bank account on 15 March, but the payments still werent there. 
Mr T chased the airline. On 28 April the airline told Mr T that it had sent the payments to the 
wrong bank sort code.
Mr T  said he contacted HSBC by live chat as soon as he heard from the airline on 28 April, 
but felt the call handler wasnt helpful, so he phoned. Mr T said the phone call handler 
agreed to raise Mr Ts complaint, which was the third time hed asked for it to be treated as a 
complaint.
On 30 April, Mr T sent a secure message telling HSBC that the airline had sent the 
payments to the wrong bank sort code, and would be doing a trace and recover. Mr T said 
he wanted HSBC to investigate and advise where his money was.
On 7 May, HSBC issued its final response to Mr Ts complaint. It explained that the sender 
of the payments would have to get their bank to recall the money, under the Credit Payment 
Recovery scheme.
On 11 May, Mr T contacted HSBC again by web chat. Mr T kept a screenshot of the chat, 
which shows that he said hed asked HSBC to help the airline with the trace and track 
request, and tell him when the payment reached his account. The web chat told Mr T hed 
need to phone telephone banking.
The two payments reached Mr Ts HSBC account on 14 May.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with HSBCs final response, and complained to this service. He said 
that it:
- had provided contradictory information about incoming payments which hadnt 
reached his account; and
- hadnt worked with the sender of the payment, hadnt told Mr T what had happened 
to the payments, and hadnt advised him when the payments arrived.
Mr T also told the investigator that HSBC refused to take any ownership, even after hed 
discovered that the incorrect sort code used by the airline was one which was another HSBC 
sort code. He also said that he had an unusual surname, so he thought HSBC should have 
been able to trace the payments from that.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She explained that the UK Payments 
Administration best practice guidelines said that it was the unique identifiers of the sort code 
and account number which were used to process payments, not a payees name. She 
pointed out that it had been the airline which had made the mistake over the numbers, not 
HSBC.
The investigator looked at the web chat, but didnt think HSBC acted unreasonably. And she 
thought that what HSBCs call handler was doing on the complaint phone call, was to tell him 
about the right process to retrieve his money  which was for the sender to do. Shed asked 
Mr T to obtain more details about the payments, but hed only been able to provide the 
amounts, so HSBC couldnt investigate further.
Mr T didnt accept this. He said HSBC had failed to provide any support and assistance, 
even when hed complained and had told HSBC that the incorrect sort code was another 
HSBC one. He said HSBC hadnt taken the situation seriously and couldnt be bothered. He 
said it would have been totally different if hed owed HSBC that amount of money and would 
have got bailiffs involved within six weeks. 
Mr T also said that HSBC hadnt provided any of the answers that the investigator had done, 
and if he hadnt got in touch, he wouldnt have been provided with some understanding of 
banking processes. He said HSBC had failed him from 8 March to 14 May, and hadnt 
apologised. He asked for an ombudsman decision, saying he wanted all sides considered 
and not just banking processes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr T was frustrated that his significant airline compensation payments 
didnt reach his HSBC account promptly, and that that would have been upsetting. But what I 
have to consider is what were the responsibilities of the sender, and what were HSBCs 
responsibilities.
I recognise that Mr T has said he doesnt want just banking processes considered, and I will 
consider the service too. But the starting point in looking at the complaint has to be what 
HSBCs responsibilities were under banking processes, otherwise its not possible to say 
whether or not HSBC did anything wrong.
Payment processes
When a payment doesnt reach the right place, its for the sender to track it down and try to 
recall it. So it was the airlines responsibility to do that. That still applies when Mr T 
discovered that the wrong sort code was another HSBC sort code. Thats because there 
wasnt a match between that other sort code and Mr Ts account number. There wasnt any 
valid account number with the sort code and account number used by the airline. Quite apart from the fact it wasnt HSBCs responsibility, it wouldnt have been practical to search 
through every incoming payment to the wrong sort code, to see if any might have been Mr 
Ts. Nor would it have been practical for HSBC to track the payments solely using Mr Ts 
name, even though its an unusual name. 
After Mr T contacted this service, HSBC told us it would be happy to review, but it would 
need a copy of the senders trace request, and the exact date and time the payment was 
sent, and the faster payment ID (the unique number for the transaction). Mr T wasnt able 
to obtain these from the sender.
HSBC didnt offer that option in its final response letter to Mr T on 7 May. But I consider that 
was reasonable at that point, because it was only a few days earlier, on 30 April, that Mr Ts 
secure message had said that the airline will be doing a trace and recover process. That 
was the right way for missing payments to be located. So I dont consider HSBC had any 
obligation to ask for the senders trace request and other details.
The bottom line is that it was for the sender to put the correct details on the payments, and 
to trace the payments when they didnt arrive. So in terms of process, HSBC did nothing 
wrong. Ive gone on to consider HSBCs service.
Service
Mr T has provided some web chat screen shots, and I also have copies of a secure 
message, and the complaint phone call. I dont have documentary or recorded evidence of 
other chats or calls. 
Looking first at the web chat, I dont consider that more should have been done on that chat. 
Chat is intended for basic queries and I find it was reasonable for the handler to have asked 
Mr T to phone the telephone banking service. I havent seen any evidence of contradictory 
information being given about the payments.
Mr T also complained that HSBC didnt work with the airline sending the payments. But it 
wasnt required to, because it was the sender, ie the airline, which was responsible for 
tracing the payments. And HSBC couldnt have done anything to trace the payments, from 
the many millions it handles, without more detailed information. I dont find that HSBC 
couldnt be bothered because it wasnt HSBCs job in the first place to trace the payments.
The sheer scale of HSBC operations also means it isnt practical for the bank to advise Mr T, 
or any other customer, when individual payments credit accounts. And customers have a 
responsibility for monitoring their own accounts. But the payments showed on Mr Ts 
account on 14 May, so it would have been possible for him to see them as soon as they 
arrived. 
Ive also noted the timescales. Although Mr T told HSBC in early March that he hadnt had 
the payments, there was nothing HSBC could have done when it simply hadnt received any 
payments to a valid HSBC account. It wasnt until the end of April that the sending airline told 
Mr T that it had sent them but using an incorrect sort code. Between then, and the payments 
arriving on 14 May, was only just over a fortnight. So even if it had been HSBCs 
responsibility to sort it out  which it wasnt -  I dont agree with Mr T that HSBC failed him 
between the longer period of 8 March to 14 May.
Taking all these factors into account, I dont consider that HSBC failed Mr T in regards to 
service. Finally, Mr T has said that HSBC didnt apologise, but I havent found any failings for 
which it needed to apologise.I recognise the strength of Mr Ts feeling about his complaint, but ultimately the responsibility 
for tracing and resolving the missing payment lay with the sender and not with HSBC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman