DRN-1661458
The complaint
Ms W complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card in 2001. 
Although I appreciate the PPI was sold alongside a card for a large department store, AXA is 
responsible for complaints about those cards. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA for the 
rest of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because AXA hadnt told Ms W 
everything it should have done about the cover. She thought that Ms W wouldnt have 
bought the cover if shed been given all of the relevant information because she had good 
benefits from her employer. AXA disagreed with that view and so the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
  
Ive carefully considered all of the information in this case and Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
From the information Ive been provided with, it seems that PPI was sold to Ms W during a 
telephone call a few months after shed opened her store card. In the absence of a 
recording, I cant know what was said during that call. Ms W hasnt told us much about what 
she remembers and AXA has no documentary evidence available from the time. In light of 
that, in order to determine what is most likely to have happened, Ive considered the PPI 
policy documentation. I think that what Ms W was told on the phone probably reflects what 
was on the certificate of insurance. 
When PPI was sold to Ms W, AXA had to give her enough information about the PPI so she 
could decide whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should have been 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Looking at the certificate of insurance, I can see that the benefits of the cover are 
highlighted. But I dont think the cost is so clear. In particular, I cant say that Ms W would 
have known shed have had to pay interest on the cost of the premiums if she didnt repay 
the balance in full. Or that she would have had to continue to pay the premiums in the event 
of a successful claim.  This information is important because it means the PPI may have 
been more expensive than Ms W appreciated. As these things were not highlighted in the 
certificate of insurance, I dont think its likely the person selling PPI would have set the extra 
cost out to Ms W. 
So, the question for me now is whether Ms W would have acted differently if AXA had told 
her everything it should have done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what Ms 
W told us about her personal circumstances. Ive also applied the terms and conditions of 
the cover. 
If Ms W had made a claim on the PPI, 15% of her store card balance would have been 
repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months. 
Ms W told us that she had between six and twelve months sick pay from her employer. I 
dont know what her precise sick pay entitlement was. But I can see that AXA accepted it 
was likely that her sick pay was generous taking account of her employer and her length of 
service. I think AXA was correct in making that assumption.
 
Ms W also initially told us that she had savings that were the equivalent of between six and 
twelve months of her salary. Our adjudicator asked Ms W to quantify those savings. Upon 
receipt of that further information, I dont think they were quite as significant as Ms W 
originally told us, but I think she did have some funds put away. Taking account of those 
savings, her sick pay and the way she appears to have managed her account, I dont think 
Ms W would have bought the PPI policy if shed been given more or better information about 
it. 
So, I uphold this complaint and AXA will need to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA must put Ms W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI by 
taking the steps set out below: 
A) AXA must find out how much Ms W would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as 
well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms W owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Ms W made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it 
owes her. 
B) Add simple interest on the difference between what Ms W would have owed when she 
closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% simple a year . 
C) If  when AXA works out what Ms W would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms W wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year . 
D) AXA should tell Ms W what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD must comply with the above putting things right 
section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman