DRN-2326695
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that First Data Europe Limited sent details to his old email address and
set up his payment details incorrectly.
What happened
Mr C set up an account with First Data on 22 July 2019. He completed an application form
and his details and terminal activation codes were then emailed to him. Mr C has said the
email was sent to an old email address. He contacted First Data on 30 July about this and 
asked for his email address to be changed.
Mr C contacted First Data on 31 July to say his bank account details were incorrect. He said 
he uploaded a cheque on the 23 July with the correct details and so First Data shouldve 
been aware of these. He said that the time taken for his account details to be updated and 
for him to receive his funds caused him inconvenience and distress.
First Data said the email was sent to the email address on the application form and when 
Mr C contacted it about this issue his email address was updated. It also said that the 
account details were set up based on the details on the form and that when Mr C made 
contact about this it explained what needed to happen to change the details.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.
My provisional conclusions 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The email sent including Mr Cs details and activation codes was sent to the email 
address that Mr C had provided on his application form. First Data updated Mr Cs 
email address when this was requested. Therefore, I didnt find that First Data had 
done anything wrong in respect to this part of Mr Cs complaint.
A digit had been entered incorrectly in the bank details. However, as the account 
number was included in the application form that Mr C signed, I couldnt say that First 
Data was wrong to set up the account with these details. I noted Mr Cs comments 
about the cheque he uploaded on 23 July having the correct details but as the 
account had been set up based on the information contained in the application Mr C 
signed, I didnt find that First Data did anything wrong by using this information until it 
was informed of the issue.
Mr C raised the issue with First Data about the bank details and was told what would 
need to happen for the change to be made. It was reasonable that First Data 
followed a process for updating the account details. However, its systems showed 
that it had all the information required on 16 September, but the account wasnt 
updated until 21 October. I thought this delay would have caused Mr C unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. It also meant his funds took longer to be released to him. 
Because of this I found it reasonable that Mr C was paid compensation of £150. 
First Data accepted my provisional decision and actioned the payment of £150 to Mr C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision I dont think that First Data did anything wrong by 
sending the email with Mr Cs details and activation codes to the email address Mr C had 
included on his application form. It then updated this email address when requested. I also 
dont think it did anything wrong by relying on the bank details included in the signed 
application form.
First Data acted reasonably by applying it usual process when changing Mr Cs account 
details. However it appeared that there was an unnecessary delay in updating Mr Cs 
account. I thought compensation of £150 was reasonable. Mr C didnt respond to my 
provisional decision and First Data accepted it and so I my decision remains that 
compensation of £150 is reasonable for the delay in uploading in Mr Cs account details.
Putting things right
First Data Europe Limited has said that it has actioned the payment of £150 to Mr C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about First Data Europe Limited. As I 
understand First Data Europe Limited has actioned the payment of £150 to Mr C I find this is 
a fair resolution to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman