DRN-3091832
The complaint
Mr D complains that he experienced major issues with Lloyds online banking system, which 
meant he couldnt access the service.
What happened
Mr D says he couldnt access Lloyds internet banking service on 18 January 2019. He wrote 
to Lloyds about this the following day and, whilst the problem had resolved itself by then, he 
asked it to look into things as he said it wasnt the sort of service he expected from an 
institution like Lloyds. 
Lloyds asked Mr D for further information to help it look into what happened. Mr D responded 
that he couldnt get into the system, but noted that it is a month ago. Lloyds then 
responded in late February 2019 and said it had checked Mr Ds online banking audit, which 
is its record of everything Mr D does online. And it said it couldnt see any evidence of him 
having logged in or attempted to log in on 18 January 2019. It said its records showed that 
before logging in successfully on 19 January 2019, Mr Ds last log in attempt was on 14 
January 2019. Mr D contacted Lloyds again and said he could only deduce something was 
wrong with its software. He asked Lloyds to look into things again.
In early April 2019 Lloyds gave Mr D its final response on the matter and suggested he could 
refer the complaint to our service if he remained unhappy. Mr D complained to us and one of 
our investigators looked into things. Our investigator said he hadnt been able to identify any 
system errors to account for why Mr D couldnt access online banking - as it seemed to be 
working normally. Nor was there evidence of any failed login attempts. Based on that he 
didnt think it was fair to say Lloyds had done something wrong, as there was no evidence 
the error was on its part. Although he couldnt be certain what caused the error, the 
investigator thought it was more likely due to something else. Mr D didnt agree with our 
investigator. So, the matters now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ds comments in response to our investigators assessment. And, in particular 
his suggestion that, as the investigator wasnt able to pinpoint what caused the system issue 
that Mr D experienced, the investigation must be flawed. Mr D is adamant that the system 
wasnt working for him and he says thats a FACT. 
I dont think theres any suggestion that Mr D didnt experience system problems on 18 
January 2019. And whilst I can appreciate why he might think we should have been able to 
say exactly what happened, that can sometimes be difficult. Our organisation doesnt have 
access to banks systems. So, its not for us to forensically examine Lloyds systems to 
identify a potential software issue in the way that Mr D perhaps expected. That means we 
rely on information submitted by both parties when looking into complaints. 
In a situation like this, we may not always be able to provide a customer with a satisfactory 
answer as to why they experienced problems. But we can consider whether the business 
complained about  in this case Lloyds - took fair and reasonable steps to look into what 
happened and respond. And, if not, what it should now do to put things right.
So, its against that backdrop that Ive considered Mr Ds complaint. He says that not being 
able to access the system caused him major issues. Whilst its good to note that these 
issues seemed to be limited to 18 January 2019 alone, I fully appreciate how frustrating it 
can be not to have access to an online banking service that many of us heavily rely on these 
days. Its not clear if the impact on Mr D extended beyond that as he hasnt given us any 
additional information in that regard.  
Lloyds tried to find out what had gone wrong by asking Mr D what issues hed had when 
trying to access online banking. I thought that was helpful, so it could at least try to 
understand things from the user perspective. Mr Ds response said he couldnt access the 
system. However, the audit connected with Mr Ds online account access didnt show any 
attempts by him to log into his account on the day in question. So, Lloyds responded to Mr D 
in that manner. I fully appreciate thats not Mr Ds experience of what happened though. And 
he clearly expected Lloyds to look into things further and give him a more in-depth 
explanation about what had gone wrong. 
Whilst I do appreciate Mr Ds position, Im not persuaded that it would have been feasible for 
Lloyds to give him much more of an explanation than it already had. Nor do I think it would 
have been reasonable to expect Lloyds to carry out further investigation. I say that in 
particular because the problem had already sorted itself out by then, so I think it would 
probably have been more difficult to work out what caused it. And there can be many 
different reasons why, despite the banks systems showing no signs of problems, the user 
can have a very different experience. A problem logging in could be caused by a number of 
things other than the banks systems, such as the device theyre attempting to access the 
online system from or the quality of their own internet/phone providers connectivity. The fact 
that Lloyds has since indicated its systems werent showing any signs of issues, nor was 
there any evidence of Mr D having attempted to log on, does tend to suggest the problem 
was a more localised one. Given all of this, and the fact that the problem had resolved itself 
the following day, I think Lloyds response was reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances.  
I acknowledge Mr D doesnt think hes received the sort of service hes entitled to expect 
from an institution like Lloyds. But even longstanding organisations such as Lloyds (and its 
customers), do experience problems like this from time to time.  And there wont always be a 
simple explanation for what caused them. Its not for me to uphold a complaint simply 
because something went wrong. So, even if I was able to say categorically that the problem 
was down to Lloyds software (which I cant), for the reasons Ive already set out, that 
doesnt automatically mean Id be asking Lloyds to take steps to put things right now. 
Thankfully, the problem was isolated to one day. And whilst I appreciate that Mr D may not 
have wanted to or couldnt visit a branch or phone Lloyds when his online banking access 
was down, Im mindful that these options would still have been available to him if hed 
needed to do some urgent banking that day. And I think that would likely have minimised the 
impact of being without internet banking access.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong. And I 
think it responded in a fair and reasonable way.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 Amanda Scott
Ombudsman