DRN-3444181
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance 
(Soteria), following its decision to decline a claim for a leak at their home. They want 
repairs to be carried out and for their home to be returned to its pre-leak condition. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were insured with Company A, up until November 2020. Trace and Access 
was not included in their policy cover with A.
In early August 2020, a leak occurred at their home, causing damage to several rooms.
Mr and Mrs H claimed under their policy.
A prepared a schedule of work and cash settled the claim in late August 2020.
Mr and Mrs H commissioned repair works at their home through September and October 
2020.
Mr and Mrs H changed insurer in November 2020 to Soteria. Trace and Access cover was 
then included under their new policy.
Around December 2020, further evidence of water penetration began to manifest at Mr and 
Mrs Hs home.
Mr and Mrs H submitted a claim to Soteria, believing that there was a new leak.
Soteria authorised Mr H and Mrs H to commission works to investigate but no new leak was 
detected. Soteria commissioned a leak detection report in February 2021 which concluded 
that the manifesting damage was not from a new leak, but was instead residual water from 
the August leak.
Soteria therefore declined the claim as it said that this related to a peril which occurred 
before the policy started.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Soteria.
Soteria responded to the complaint in April 2021. It did not uphold the complaint and stated 
that any damage caused in trace and access works would have needed to be repaired 
anyway, and ought to be repaired by A, as the insurer responsible for the leak.
Mr H and Mrs H were not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was 
that Soteria had not acted unreasonably as the investigations into the leak had concluded 
that there was no insured peril. She therefore did not think that Soteria ought to do anything 
further.
Mr H and Mrs H did not accept that view.
I made some further enquiries with Soteria, A, and Mr H and Mrs H. I issued a provisional 
decision in respect of this complaint in March 2022 and that provisional decision has been 
shared with the parties for their comments. 
In that provisional decision I explained that I did not think that the complaint ought to be 
upheld as it did indeed appear that the damage caused as part of trace and access works 
was primarily damaged by the leak and should be covered by A.
 
There was one area where damage had been caused by the trace and access which may 
not have been otherwise damaged, and this was the bath panel. This had been removed 
and no longer fitted as grout and sealant had been removed. I asked that, if A did not also 
repair this in their works, that Soteria then consider repairing this.
Mr H and Mrs H have responded. They do not object to the decision but stress that they 
ought to be indemnified from all damage caused by trace and access works. 
Soteria has responded, accepting the decision and indicating that it would consider a claim 
for bath panel damage, subject to the policy excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the comments of the parties, I remain of the view that the damage 
caused through trace and access, in places where there was also damage by the leak, ought 
to be compensated or repaired by the insurer of the leak (A). 
It may be that the work done includes repair of the bath panel, in the course of As other 
repairs.
If A refuses to repair or restore the bath panel, however, I think that Soteria ought to repair or 
reinstate this as a consequence of the trace and access work. 
This would not be a further claim (and so would not trigger an excess) as this is a 
consequence of the trace and access work authorised by Soteria, as part of Mr H and Mrs 
Hs good faith claim for an apparent leak. I appreciate that Soteria does not consider that it 
ought to pay out anything further as it has incurred costs already as a consequence of the 
leak which occurred during the period of cover with A, but this damage to the bath panel is a 
consequence of actions taken as part of Soterias cover. 
Soteria may of course seek to recover any costs it has incurred from A if it wishes, but this 
should not prevent Mr H and Mrs H being indemnified from damage at their home. 
It is likely that the bath panel will be repaired among works by A, but if it is not, I would 
expect Soteria to respond positively to a request for indemnity from Mr H and Mr H in 
respect of the path panel.
Consequently, I do not uphold the main complaint, but make clear that if Mr H and Mrs H are 
unable to be indemnified for the restoration of their bath panel, that Soteria ought to take 
responsibility for this as an extension, and consequence, of its previous investigations. My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs main complaint about Soteria 
Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance, but I direct that, if Mr H and Mrs H are unable 
to be indemnified by A in respect of restoring the bath panel, then Soteria must take 
responsibility for this repair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman