DRN-3365782
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc are holding him liable for accounts he didnt open.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In early May 2020 a bank account and credit card account with HSBC were opened in Mr Ps 
name. The details provided at account opening matched Mr Ps except for the phone 
number and email address. 
On 19 May 2020 Mr P emailed HSBC to let them know that he had received a credit card 
that he hadnt applied for. Later the same month there were several transfers from the credit 
card account to the HSBC bank account in Mr Ps name. There was then spending on the 
debit card associated with that account. This included ATM withdrawals which required both 
the physical card and its PIN. There were also transfers to another bank B with the payee 
named as Mr P. 
HSBC contacted B who confirmed that the account that received the funds was in Mr Ps 
name and that many of the details also matched. HSBC decided to hold Mr P liable for the 
accounts with them. Mr P complained and the matter was referred to our service. He says he 
didnt apply for any accounts with either HSBC or B and that hes been the victim of identity 
theft.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she though HSBC had acted fairly based on the available evidence. As he disagrees, Mr P 
has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Ill explain why. 
I dont think HSBC were wrong to open either of the accounts. Many of the details provided 
matched what Mr P himself has told our service about him. The evidence shows that HSBC 
electronically verified his details in line with their process. So, I dont think there was a bank 
error when opening either account (current or credit). 
Mr P told HSBC that he hadnt applied for the credit card a few days before it was first used. 
Ive considered this, but Im more persuaded by the evidence surrounding the card use that 
followed. I also note that the email went to a general enquiries inbox (at a time when the UK 
was in the midst of the global pandemic) and so I dont think HSBC were wrong to not act on 
the notification sooner than they did. As mentioned above, the available credit on the credit 
card was transferred into the HSBC current account. Its unlikely that someone without 
possession of the physical card would have been able to make these transfers. Some of the 
spending from the HSBC account was ATM withdrawals which were all made within a 
reasonable distance of Mr Ps home address. These transactions would have required both 
the physical debit card to be present as well as knowledge of the associated PIN number. 
HSBC have confirmed that it is their process to send the card and PIN (separated by a few 
days) to the registered address (which in this case was Mr Ps correct address). As Mr P 
received other correspondence sent to him by HSBC (including the credit card), I think its 
most likely that the debit card and its PIN were similarly safely delivered. Mr P has confirmed 
that he lives alone, and that his individual mailbox is secure. Mr P has suggested that the 
card might have been duplicated and sent to a separate address. Ive not seen evidence to 
support that being the case and I dont think its likely that is what happened. 
For a third party to have made these transactions they would have needed to have obtained 
enough personal information about Mr P to successfully open the accounts in his name. 
They also would have needed to intercept Mr Ps post on more than one occasion. I accept it 
might have been possible for another person to learn Mr Ps name, address and date of 
birth. But there hasnt been a plausible explanation put forward for how the post could have 
been intercepted enough times to enable the spending that followed. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, Im not persuaded that HSBCs decision to hold 
Mr P liable for the accounts was unfair or unreasonable. Beyond Mr Ps testimony there isnt 
evidence to support that this is a case of impersonation. And Im more persuaded by the 
documentary evidence which in my opinion supports HSBCs decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman