DRN-1487301
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Ltd (MBNA) were irresponsible in approving his application for a 
third credit card.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr M applied for and obtained a credit card with MBNA. This was his 
third card with them, and I shall refer to it as that. Mr M says at that time it would have been 
clear from his transaction history and credit file that he was making gambling transactions on 
two other cards he held with MBNA; that he was close to the credit limit on both, and he had 
received over limit charges for both. 
In addition, he states he had another credit card account with another provider which was at 
its limit and an overdraft on each of his two bank accounts.
MBNA feel they correctly assessed his application, considering the information from Credit 
Reference Agencies and other information they held about Mr M. So, they didnt believe they 
had acted unfairly.
Mr M was unhappy with MBNAs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but 
didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances here, the relevant rules and guidance say that MBNA was required to 
assess whether Mr M was able to repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner. Those rules 
and guidance are found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit 
sourcebook, along with best practice guidance from other organisations. They require 
businesses to undertake a reasonable assessment of a customers creditworthiness before 
entering into a credit agreement and that they are also to have regard to the affordability of 
such credit. They should also consider how any increase in credit may adversely impact a 
customers financial situation, by taking into account;
the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase.
the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due.
information obtained from a credit reference agency, and review the
information on a consumers credit file plus any one of these three:
1) the customers income and financial commitments.
2) how they have handled their finances in the past.
3) internal credit scoring techniques.
MBNA say they completed various checks, including affordability and indebtedness checks 
before approving Mr Ms application. They say their decision to offer credit was based on the 
information supplied by Mr M, data from the credit reference agencies and their own risk 
strategies. 
Mr Ms application for the third card shows he had an annual income of £27,000 and that he 
was living with his parents. It follows that he would probably have fewer financial 
commitments than if he was living in his own accommodation.
The credit searches undertaken at the time Mr M applied for his third card show his total 
borrowing, including that from outside sources, was £11,771 on credit cards when balanced 
against a limit of £13,400. MBNA have said that the information available on Mr Ms credit 
file gave no indication of financial difficulty or over indebtedness. So overall here, Im 
satisfied that by assessing Mr Ms income and expenditure as it did, alongside looking at his 
credit file  MBNA would have thought that this increase was affordable to Mr M.
But Mr M says that MBNA shouldve been aware that he was gambling using the card and 
that it shouldnt have lent for this reason. So, Ive looked at whether there was any other 
reason here that MBNA shouldnt have increased the limit.
Mr M also had two other accounts with MBNA, ending 86 and 52. Ive looked at the 
statements for both and they show that in July 2016 Mr M gambled on two days. On the 8 
July he spent £125 on a/c 52 and £100 on account 86. He spent another £100 on account 
52 on the 9 July. In that month, he went over his limit on both cards incurring fees.
In August Mr M gambled once, spending £50 on 4 August on account 52. That month he 
incurred over limit fees on both accounts. In September Mr M gambled once spending £25 
on account 52 on 2 September and again incurred over limit fees for both accounts that 
month.
But the statements for October and November show that in those months he was within his 
credit limit on both accounts and had paid more than the minimum amount each month. Mr 
M had four further gambling transactions on his cards on 29 December totalling £400 but 
wasnt over limit on either account.
So, looking at the total amount gambled over the period July to the end of the year it totals 
£800, and that was on five different days. Circumstances can arise which could lead to a 
card provider being alerted to the fact that a customer may be in some financial difficulty and 
for them to be proactive in trying to help. But I dont think MBNA wouldve necessarily 
thought that this was the case in the individual circumstances here. I havent seen anything 
which shows that Mr M told MBNA he had a problem with gambling, and it didnt come to 
light as part of their checks. So, I dont think from that I could say that it was reasonable to 
expect MBNA to have known Mr M had a problem based on the conduct of his account 
alone.
Ive considered the over limit fees applied in July, August and September. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr M told MBNA that he was struggling to maintain payments, and in fact the 
evidence shows he was able to bring his accounts back up to date and made more than the 
minimum payments. That indicates he was able to financially manage the accounts. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that Mr Ms statements show that he was using the 
account from time to time to withdraw cash. That can be a sign of financial difficulties, as by 
doing this, the interest associated with the facility can be high. But Mr M wasnt using this at 
a frequency that I think would have alerted MBNA that he may have been experiencing difficulties here. Some months he would use it once or twice, other months he wouldnt use it 
at all. It may be that he was withdrawing cash or transferring money to fund gambling 
elsewhere, but I dont see how MBNA could have known that without Mr M telling it.
But overall here, Im satisfied MBNA did consider his entire indebtedness and his wider 
circumstances in deciding to lend, and so I think having done so they acted reasonably. So, 
Im satisfied that MBNA have not lent to Mr M irresponsibly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman