DRN-3678884
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a permanent total disability (PTD) 
claim he made on a personal accident insurance policy.
Mr Z is represented by Mr B.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive summarised what I 
think are the key events.
Mr Z had suffered a hip injury. He was scheduled to travel to another country for surgery in 
November 2013. He was insured under a personal accident policy which provided cover if a 
beneficiary suffered bodily injury or illness after travelling abroad for medical treatment. Mr Z 
underwent hip surgery as planned in November 2013 under the care of a specialist Ill call Mr 
H.
A few weeks later, in early January 2014, Mr Z returned to Mr H. It was discovered that hed 
developed heterotopic ossification (HO)  an unusual development of bone. After 
conservative management of the condition failed, Mr Z underwent further surgery in April 
2015. During this surgery, a recurrence of Mr Zs initial tear was found and repaired and a 
section of HO was removed.
Lloyds agreed to cover the costs of Mr Zs follow-up surgery, as it initially appeared to 
accept that the development of HO had been a complication of the 2013 surgery. However, it 
later confirmed that these costs had been covered on a without-prejudice basis.
Despite the April 2015 surgery, Mr Z continued to experience chronic pain and limited 
movement. Mr H concluded he was unable to resume his professional career. So Mr Z made 
a PTD claim on the policy.
Lloyds investigated Mr Zs PTD claim. It appointed an independent medical examiner, who 
Ill call Mr T, to assess Mr Zs condition. Based on Mr Ts report and the terms of Mr Zs 
policy, Lloyds turned down the PTD claim. Briefly, it didnt think that the development of HO 
was either an accident or bodily injury which was covered by the policy terms. It didnt think 
Mr Z had met the policy definition of PTD. And it concluded that the HO had been an 
unfavourable outcome of the 2013 surgery  which was specifically excluded by the policy 
terms.
Mr Z was unhappy with Lloyds decision and so Mr B asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had treated Mr Z unfairly. She wasnt satisfied that 
Mr Z had shown that the development of HO fell within the policy definition of an accident. 
Nor did she think that hed shown he met the definition of PTD. So she felt itd been fair for 
Lloyds to turn down Mr Zs claim.
Mr Z disagreed and Ive summarised the further representations Mr B made on his behalf:
- The 2015 surgery hadnt been paid as a gesture of goodwill. Lloyds had accepted 
that the claim was covered and only changed its mind on this point once Mr Z made 
the PTD claim;
- The policy also covers illness in addition to accident  but this hasnt been 
considered. Mr Z and Mr B queried why the claim wasnt covered under the illness 
heading;
- Mr B said HO (an illness) only develops following trauma. No HO had been 
discovered during the original surgery and so it cant be related to the original injury. 
So the HO can only be as a result of the unintended bone trauma that happened 
during the 2013 surgery;
- HO was unrelated to the initial surgery  which repaired Mr Zs injury. So Mr Z 
doesnt think it can be considered as a failed or unfavourable outcome;
- The HO occurred immediately and was found a couple of weeks after the initial 
surgery. So it happened suddenly, unexpectedly and took place at an identifiable 
time. It progressed over time;
- Mr Z had been unable to return to his profession and this had been the case for 
longer than the 12 months required by the policy terms;
- Mr T had referred to Mr Z potentially teaching sports as a career  but these had 
been as part of him attempting to keep fit to resume his own job. Mr Z could not have 
taken up teaching these jobs without significant retraining;
- Mr Z had carefully considered the policy terms and believed he was covered. Given 
Lloyds had paid for the second surgery and treated HO as a complication of the first 
surgery; this demonstrated that the policy wording was ambiguous. So Mr B felt it 
should be interpreted in Mr Zs favour.
Lloyds also questioned whether Mr Z was an eligible complainant. Our investigator 
explained why she thought he was. Lloyds didnt dispute this further or provide any further 
comments on this point. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has questioned whether Mr Z is an eligible complainant under our rules, as the 
policyholder is a trust, rather than Mr Z. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that we do have 
the power to consider this complaint. The decision to decline Mr Zs claim appears to have 
been carried out from an establishment in the UK. And DISP 2.7.6 sets out the following:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with 
the respondent: 
5)  the complainant is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent.
While the main policyholder in this case appears to be a trust; Im satisfied that Mr Z is a 
beneficiary of a contract of insurance which is underwritten by Lloyds. As such, I find he is 
an eligible complainant under our rules.Ive next turned to consider the merits of Mr Zs complaint. And whilst Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr Z, I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr Z and Mr B that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and their submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all that has been said and 
sent. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its also important I make it clear that Im not a medical expert. But I dont need to be. My 
role is to consider, amongst other things, the available specialist medical evidence and the 
policy terms, to decide whether I think Lloyds assessed Mr Zs PTD claim fairly.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive also borne in mind Lloyds 
regulatory obligations when deciding whether Lloyds has handled Mr Zs claim fairly and 
reasonably.
The policy terms and conditions and applicable definitions
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Zs 
contract with Lloyds. The policy says that:
Insurance is provided under this policy for bodily injury caused by an accident or illness
We The Underwriters hereby agree with the Assured, to the extent and in the manner herein 
provided, that if Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury caused by an Accident we will pay to 
the Assured, or to the Assureds Executors or Administrators, according to the Schedule of 
Benefits after the total claim shall be substantiated under this insurance.
Lloyds has defined what it means by an accident, bodily injury and an illness. So Ive next 
set out the relevant definition of each:
Accident means: 
a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific event which occurs at an identifiable time and 
place during the period of insurance.
Accident shall also include: a Complication incurred whilst the Insured Person is travelling for 
the purpose of a Medical Procedure outside the Insured Persons country of residence. 
Country of residence being a country approved by Underwriters.
Bodily injury means identifiable physical injury which
(a) is caused by an Accident, and
(b) solely and independently of any other cause or medical or surgical treatment rendered 
necessary by such injury, occasions the death or disablement of the Insured Person within 
six months (180 days) from the date of the Accident.
Illness means: sickness or disease of the Insured Person which first manifests itself during 
the Period of Insurance and occasions the total disablement of the Insured Person within 12 
months of manifesting itself.
For completeness, Ive also set out the contractual definition of a complication:
Complication means Bodily Injury from an approved Medical Procedure which results in a 
separate medical diagnosis and is incurred whilst an Insured Person is travelling for the purpose of receiving medical or surgical treatment outside the Insured Persons country of 
residence and citizenship.
The contract terms also include the following general exclusion which applies to all claims:
Failed and/or Unfavourable Outcome of procedure.
Lloyds has defined what it means by a failed/unfavourable outcome of a procedure as 
follows:
an unintended or undesired physical affect that may require aesthetic or correcting revisions 
and/or results in an unsuccessful outcome including the failure to correct the original 
diagnosis.
Finally, Ive set out Lloyds definition of PTD:
disablement which entirely prevents the insured Person from attending to the usual 
occupation for which they are reasonably suited by training, education or experience and 
which lasts twelve months and at the end of that period is beyond hope of Improvement.
In summary, I think the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that Lloyds covers claims for 
bodily injury if theyre caused by an accident or illness and solely and independently of any 
other cause. And that it covers claims for complications if theyre the result of bodily injury 
from an approved medical procedure. Im satisfied too that Lloyds has clearly set out that it 
wont cover any claims which are caused by failed or unfavourable outcomes of procedures.
Lloyds assessment of the claim
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
show, on balance, that they have a valid claim on their policy. That means it was Mr Zs 
responsibility not just to show that he was prevented from returning to his original career 
because of HO  but that his claim fell within the scope of policy cover. Id add too that 
where an insurer has relied upon a policy exclusion to turn down a claim, it needs to show 
that the exclusion applies. This means that its Lloyds responsibility to demonstrate that the 
exclusion can fairly be applied to the circumstances of Mr Zs claim.
Lloyds assessed Mr Zs PTD claim and concluded that he hadnt shown the claim was 
covered by the policy terms. So Ive next carefully considered the available evidence to 
decide whether this was a fair conclusion for Lloyds to draw.
Its common ground that in August 2013, Mr Z suffered a hip injury after a fall. He sustained 
a labral tear and required surgery to repair that tear. In my view, this initial fall and tear could 
reasonably be treated as an accident in line with the policy terms. But as Mr B has 
confirmed, the initial surgery Mr Z underwent in 2013 repaired the tear Mr Z sustained 
following his initial accident. So I dont think I could reasonably say that Lloyds ought to treat 
this as the cause of Mr Zs disablement. 
In April 2016, Mr H stated that Mr Z had undergone initial surgery on 15 November 2013. On 
6 January 2014, Mr Z had visited Mr H with a pinching sensation and that X-rays showed 
HO. I note from Mr Ts report that Mr Z hadnt been found to have HO at the point the initial 
surgery was carried out. So I find its most likely that HO did develop after the initial surgery 
and likely prior to the expiry of the insurance period on 1 January 2014.
Mr Z believes that the HO which he feels has led to him becoming PTD was caused by a 
complication of the initial surgery. Mr H said that a possible complication after hip arthroscopic surgery was HO. And I note Mr Ts report stated that the HO had been found in 
the region of the original surgery.
But in order for Mr Zs PTD claim to be covered, the HO needs to fall within Lloyds definition 
of a complication  in other words, it needs to be a bodily injury sustained during the original 
surgery. As Ive set out above, Lloyds defines bodily injury in part, as an identifiable physical 
injury, which is caused by an accident  a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific event 
which occurs at an identifiable time and place during the period of insurance. Lloyds hasnt 
included illness as something that falls within the definition of a complication.
Lloyds doesnt think that the development of HO was caused by an accident as defined by 
the policy. It says that it would consider an accident to be, for example, a slip of a scalpel. 
The definition of a complication also requires the injury to have been sustained during 
approved surgery. But as part of Mr Ts review, he looked at images of Mr Zs original 
surgery. He concluded that: The capsule and labrum appear to be well repaired with no sign 
of defect. It doesnt appear then that during the surgery, an identifiable accident took place, 
or that any errors were made. Nor does it appear that Mr Z suffered an unexpected bodily 
injury.
Instead, by Mr Hs account, HO is a possible complication of the type of surgery Mr Z 
originally underwent. And from my own research, I understand that HO commonly develops 
post certain types of hip surgery. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to 
ultimately conclude that the development of HO wasnt a sudden, unexpected or unusual 
event. And while I acknowledge that HO likely developed only a few weeks after the 2013 
surgery, I dont think there was a specific, identifiable place or time in which it happened.
As such then, I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to find that Mr Zs HO wasnt a 
complication as defined in the policy terms. I accept that his 2015 surgical costs were 
covered, but Lloyds now says that these were paid on an ex-gratia basis. I dont think I 
could fairly conclude that because Lloyds paid an earlier claim, that its accordingly bound to 
pay further claims.
Lloyds considers that the development of HO was an unfavourable outcome of Mr Zs initial 
surgery. As Ive explained, by Mr Hs account, HO seems to have been a known 
complication of the type of surgery Mr Z originally had. And it appears to be commonly 
known to develop after major surgery and certain types of hip surgery. I accept the tear itself 
was repaired by the original surgery, so that aspect of the surgery appeared to have been 
successful. But considering the evidence as a whole, it seems to me to be acknowledged 
that but for the hip surgery, HO is unlikely to have developed. Mr H said that the second 
labral tear and hip impingement treated by Mr Zs surgery of April 2015 were a direct result 
of HO. And in my view, given the impact HO has had on Mr Z, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that it was an unintended and undesirable outcome of 
the original surgery, which needed correcting. This means I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly 
when it decided that Mr Zs claim fell within the scope of the failed/unfavourable outcome of 
the procedure exclusion.
Ive taken into account too what Mr Z has said about the policy covering illness. But, even if I 
accepted the condition was an illness, the general exclusion Ive referred to applies to the 
whole policy. So this hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of the 
complaint. 
Therefore, I think that Lloyds acted fairly when it turned down the claim on this basis.
Was it fair for Lloyds to conclude that Mr Z wasnt permanently and totally disabled by his 
accident?Even though Ive concluded that it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Zs claim, for 
completeness, Ive thought about whether he met the definition of PTD. This requires that a 
policyholder is prevented from returning to the usual occupation for which theyre suited by 
training, education or experience. The PTD must last longer than 12 months and there must 
be no hope of improvement.
Its clear that both Mr H and Mr T agree that Mr Z is likely unable to return to his previous 
career. I dont doubt how disappointing this was for him. But the policy doesnt require Mr Z 
to only be prevented from working in his previous role for cover to apply. Instead, it requires 
him to be entirely prevented from returning to a role for which hes suited by training, 
education or experience.
In this case, Mr T didnt think it was solely Mr Zs condition which would prevent him from 
returning to his previous career. He felt it had been the time outside of the profession; and 
he noted that Mr Z had psychologically given up on returning to it. He stated that Mr Zs 
physical examination had been relatively benign and wouldnt of itself prevent him from 
returning to his previous career. Mr T was clear though that Mr Z would require a functional 
assessment, which he was unable to carry out himself.
Mr Ts report stated that Mr Z had said he looked forward to practicing and teaching yoga 
and also hopefully coachingor becoming a scout. The report also stated that Mr Z was 
teaching boxing to make some money on the side.
In my view, based on Mr Ts evidence, which is the only persuasive medical evidence which 
provides a clear opinion on Mr Zs capabilities post-2017, it seems that Mr Z wouldve been 
reasonably suited by training and experience, to carry out other roles. As such then, even if I 
had concluded that the claim was otherwise covered, I wouldnt have found that Mr Zs claim 
fell within the scope of PTD cover, although I accept the evidence is quite limited on this 
point.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Zs position and Im sorry for the time its taken for us to 
look at his complaint, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman