DRN-3263437
The complaint
The estate of Mrs V complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) made errors in 
dealing with the estate.]
What happened
Mrs V sadly died in April 2020. A third party registered her death with Nationwide in May 
2020. Nationwide sent the third-party details of the bank accounts of the late Mrs V and Mr
V. In June 2021, Mr V (Mrs Vs husband) produced the Grant of Probate dated 11 May 2021
- which named him as executor (jointly with his son).
The estate of Mrs V, represented by Mr V, complained. Mr V said that he was the personal 
representative and executor of the estate, not the third party. The third party was a relative 
who neither he, not his late wife, had anything to do with. Nationwide had sent to the third- 
party details of the bank accounts in the name of the late Mrs V, and joint accounts in the 
name of Mr V and his late wife. Nationwide shouldnt have done this  this was a data 
breach. To sort this out, hed had to get a solicitor to write to Nationwide  which had taken 
time and hed had to pay their costs. And at a time when he was already grieving, the 
whole episode had caused him a lot of stress and anxiety. Mr V wants a proper apology, a 
higher amount of compensation, and a review of Nationwides processes.
Nationwide admitted that theyd made an error. This was due to a member of staff in the 
branch not following its processes. As a result, theyd wrongly allowed the third party to be 
named as the estates personal representative. This had led to the disclosure of details of 
the late Mrs Vs sole and joint accounts. They offered compensation of £250 which the 
estate of Mrs V didnt accept.
The estate of Mrs V brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said that Nationwide 
admitted theyd made errors. While Mr V had personally suffered a lot of distress and
anxiety, there hadnt been any financial loss as a result. He didnt recommend that 
Nationwide should do anymore but noted that our service was also looking at the complaint 
brought by Mr V personally.
The estate of Mrs V asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a first provisional decision where I said:
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint  because Nationwide had offered £250 
compensation, which he thought was fair. But having said that, the point here is that 
Nationwide did make an error  this is not in dispute, but the estate of Mrs V didnt accept 
Nationwides offer of compensation. And so, as part of our process, this provisional 
decision upholds the estates complaint. But  as the effect of what happened was on Mr V 
personally (and not on the estate of Mrs V)  the compensation and remedies are dealt 
with as part of the related complaint brought by Mr V personally.
Nationwide admitted that their member of branch staff made an error  as they registered 
the third party as the personal representative, not Mr V. As a result, I can see that they 
disclosed to the third party - details of the late Mrs Vs account, but also  the balance and 
details of four joint accounts of the late Mrs V and Mr V. Mr V, for the estate, wants 
Nationwide to review its processes  but Nationwide have said that it wasnt their 
processes that failed, but it was down to staff error in not carrying them out correctly. 
There was no financial loss  but I can appreciate that Mr V went through a lot of stress 
and anxiety at a particularly difficult time for him. He had to get a solicitor to write to 
Nationwide to confirm that he should be the named personal representative, and not the 
third party. This had cost £410.94. I can see that Nationwide refunded this amount to Mr 
V, plus postage costs of £6.70. Nationwide offered compensation of £250  which Mr V, 
for the estate, rejected.
But  the point here is that that the effect of what happened was on Mr V personally  not 
on the estate of Mrs V. And so, while this provisional decision sets out that the estates 
complaint should be upheld, the matter of compensation is dealt with in Mr Vs personal 
complaint about what happened. And so  in upholding this complaint in the name of 
estate of Mrs V, I am not recommending any compensation or actions for that reason.
Responses to the first provisional decision:
Mr V responded to this, and the complaint in his own name.  He broadly agreed and made 
the point that the staff error doesnt necessarily represent the true extent of what 
happened  given the seriousness of the disclosure of his account information. And he 
didnt say he want more compensation, but an appropriate amount for what happened.
Nationwide didnt agree. They said that theyd admitted their error when they responded 
to the complaint and before it came to our service  theyd upheld the complaint at that 
stage and when they issued their final response. And so  they argued that as our 
service wasnt changing the outcome of the complaint  the complaint outcome shouldnt 
be upheld.
I then issued a second provisional decision:
I accepted what Nationwide had said in response to the first provisional decision. I said:
On Nationwides points  I accept these. Theyd upheld the estates complaint in their final 
response. We changed the level of compensation payable to Mr V personally in respect of 
his own complaint - but we didnt change the outcome of the estates complaint. And so  
this second provisional decision proposes that. I would ask Mr V to note  this doesnt 
impact him and is a technical change as between us and Nationwide.
Responses to the second provisional decision:
Nationwide agreed. But Mr V said:
He couldnt accept this was down to an error in the part of the member of staff.
Hed had the same problems before when dealing with another estate  therefore 
Nationwides processes must be flawed. 
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Vs points. Nationwide told us it was down to a member of staff not 
following procedures  I must accept that. Its not our role to challenge or analyse a firms 
processes  thats for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We resolve individual disputes 
between customers and businesses based in the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
And  I cant comment on the other case that Mr V has mentioned, as I dont have 
knowledge of it.
And so  my final decision is in line with the provisional decisions and for the reasons I have 
in them. I would ask Mr V to note that the matter of compensation was dealt with in the 
complaint he brought in his own name and for which we sent a final decision on 4 January 
2022.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs V 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman