DRN-3387247
The complaint
Ms P has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) suggested 
settlement for a claim she made under her NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
Ms P, and several other residents at her housing development, have made a claim to NHBC 
about water ingress at their properties. This means that, in addition to Ms P, other 
leaseholders have also been affected by the issues complained about. But this complaint 
has been brought solely by Ms P, so my decision will only address her entitlement under her 
warranty.
The bulk of the protection provided by Ms Ps NHBC warranty runs for 10 years from 
completion of her property. The cover is split into different sections each offering different 
levels of cover. 
NHBC was notified about a claim for water ingress through the windows at Ms Ps 
development in 2013. This was around 6 years into the warranty, when section 3 of the 
cover would have applied. The claim involved multiple apartments and was brought by the 
residents association, on behalf of the leaseholders.
NHBC investigated and subsequently declined the claim. It said that for windows, under 
section 3, the warranty only covered defects with the double or triple glazing panes and 
didnt extend to any other part of the window or frame.
The residents association requested NHBC consider the claim under section 2 of the 
warranty as this provided less restrictive cover if the issues were first reported to the builder 
in the first two years of the policy. It provided evidence that 15 of the leaseholders had raised 
water ingress issues with the builder during this time. This included Ms P.
Further investigations were undertaken and NHBC issued resolution reports, for various 
apartments, directing the builder to carry out works by a specified date. When this wasnt 
completed, NHBC took over responsibility for the claims (as its required to under the terms 
of the warranty). It carried out further investigations which identified a defect with the 
installation of the brise soleils on the side of the building. Ms P says this defect affects all 30 
apartments on that side of the building.
NHBCs position is that it will only settle the claims for the leaseholders who raised the 
issues with the builder within the first two years of the warranty  which includes Ms P. But 
Ms P isnt happy with this. She says the issue is affecting 30 apartments. She argues that 
unless all the defects are repaired, the building will not be watertight, which will possibly 
impact her directly.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ps complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that NHBC were only required to cover the brise soleil issue for the 
leaseholders who reported the water ingress issues to the builder within the first two years of 
the warranty. Our investigator also considered Ms Ps concern that the building would not be 
watertight unless NHBC repaired all of the defective brise soleils. But she said she hadnt 
seen any evidence to suggest that, once suitable repairs had been carried out to Ms Ps 
apartment, that the outstanding issues with other apartments would result in further damage 
to her apartment.
Our investigator also commented on the length of time the claim had taken overall. But she 
explained we couldnt consider Ms Ps concerns about this, as part of this complaint, for 
several reasons. These included that delays and commination issues up to 2016 had been 
addressed in a final response letter issued in 2016, which Ms P was out of time to refer to 
our service and that the bulk of the time taken on this claim happened before NHBC took 
over the claim  which is something our service doesnt have the power to consider. She 
also said that Ms P hadnt complained to NHBC about any delays since it took over the 
claim, so we couldnt consider any concerns she may have about that, as part of this 
complaint, either.
Ms P didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat in full 
detail. Instead Ill summarise and focus on what I believe to be the key issue relevant to 
deciding the complaint which has been referred to us, namely whether NHBC needs to 
remedy the issues affecting all of the apartments, as part of Ms Ps claim on her warranty. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either side. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, and my role within it.
Our investigator explained various reasons why we couldnt consider the time taken on the 
claim as part of this complaint, and this doesnt appear to remain in dispute. So, I wont 
make any further comment or findings on this issue. Ill focus instead on what does remain in 
dispute.
What the warranty covers
NHBCs Buildmark policy provides cover for major problems with newly built or converted 
properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. The policy is bought 
by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase the property. The cover 
provided by the policy is split into five sections.
Section 2 is the relevant section in this complaint (as NHBC accepted this was the relevant 
part of the policy, rather than the more restrictive section 3). This section states that the 
builder is responsible for remedying any defects or damage which are identified and notified 
to the builder within the first two years of cover:The Builders obligations
This part of the cover tells you what the Builder must do if he is given notice of 
Defects or Damage in your Home. This notice must be given as soon as possible 
within the period of cover (my emphasis). 
In the warranty document there is specific emphasis on the words, Defect, Damage and 
Home:
Defect
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed 
by him or acting for him. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC 
Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other ways that 
the required performance can be achieved.

Damage
Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect.

Home(s)
The house, bungalow, apartment or maisonette referred to in the Buildmark Offer, 
together with any of the following which are included in the original Contract:
a) Any Common Parts;
b) 
This means that under section 2 of the warranty, Ms P is covered for either damage or 
defects which are affecting her home or its common parts (my emphasis).
Common parts are defined as:
Common Parts 
Any of the following for which you are legally obliged to share responsibility for cost 
and upkeep with the Owners of other Homes:
a) The parts of a building containing a apartment or maisonette; 
b) Any garage, permanent outbuilding, retaining wall, boundary wall, external 
handrail or balustrade, path, drive, garden area or paved area newly built by the 
Builder at the date of the Insurance Certificate.
c) Any drainage system serving your Home.
d) Any existing garage, permanent outbuilding, retaining wall or boundary wall, that 
forms part of the Common Parts and is sold to the First Owners under the original 
Contract.
The warranty document also sets out the circumstances in which NHBC may offer its 
resolution service, and when it will take over responsibility for remedying issues under 
section 2:
The Resolution Service
If there is a disagreement about the Builders obligations, we will usually try to 
resolve matters under our Resolution Service. See the important note below.When we offer our Resolution Service, we will investigate any Defects or Damage 
which you have complained to the Builder about and which he has not put right within 
a reasonable time. We may need to visit your Home. We will then issue a report 
informing both you and the Builder of any work that he must carry out to fulfil his 
obligations under this Section. 
The Builder must carry out the work within a reasonable period of time, which will be 
set by NHBC. You must allow the Builder reasonable access during normal working 
hours to carry out the work. 
If the Builder does not carry out the work within the time set and has not agreed a 
programme with you to complete the work, we will, at our option, pay the Cost of the 
work detailed in our report or arrange for the work to be done.
So, in order for NHBC to be responsible for remedying issues under section 2, the issues 
must have been identified and reported to the builder within the first two years of cover. 
NHBC must also have directed the builder to remedy the works within a deadline, and the 
builder must have failed to do so. 
The claim decision
In this case NHBC has accepted that Ms P raised the issues with water ingress, with the 
builder, within the first two years of the warranty. NHBC has issued a resolution report 
directing the builder to remedy the issues, and it has failed to do so within the time given. So 
NHBC has taken over responsibility for remedying the issues with Ms Ps apartment. This is 
what I would have expected NHBC to do, taking into account the relevant terms and 
conditions of the warranty.
I understand Ms P is unhappy that NHBC will only be repairing the damage and defects with 
the 15 apartments who reported the issue to the builder within the first two years (including 
her own). She states that unless the issue is remedied for all 30 affected apartments, the 
building will not be watertight.
I should reiterate here that Im only considering Ms Ps claim in this decision. This means my 
focus is on what she is entitled to under the terms of her warranty, not the entitlement of 
other leaseholders under their own warranties. Under section 2, Ms Ps warranty covers her 
for either damage or a defect to her home and its common parts only. So, an issue with any 
part of the building which doesnt amount to her home or its common parts isnt something 
she is able to claim for. 
In this case the damage Ms P identified and reported to the builder, within the first two years, 
was affecting her home (and other leaseholders homes), not the common parts of the 
building. And the defects which were later identified are to the windows, window frame (brise 
soleil) and the door of her home, not to the common parts of the building. This is supported 
by the lease document Ive seen which includes windows and doors (including their frames) 
as part of the property rather than the common parts. This means Ms P doesnt have an 
entitlement to claim, under her warranty, for the damage or defects affecting other 
apartments as they arent part of her home or its common parts.That said, our service would expect any repair carried out by NHBC to be lasting and 
effective. So, Ive considered Ms Ps argument that this wouldnt be the case unless all 
affected windows are repaired. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that 
the repairs to Ms Ps apartment will not be lasting or effective, due to the fact that other 
apartments will not have their own issues remedied by NHBC. I accept that other apartments 
themselves may not be watertight until their own defects are remedied. But whether its 
NHBC thats responsible for remedying those defects, rather than the freeholder or 
leaseholders themselves, is a matter between NHBC and those parties.
However, if Ms P is able to obtain additional expert evidence which shows that the water 
ingress damage to her apartment has been caused by a defect in another apartment, I would 
expect NHBC to consider this further.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that NHBC is required to 
cover Ms Ps claim for the defect(s) and damage affecting her home  which it has already 
offered to do. But, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think NHBC is responsible for 
remedying the issues with other apartments, as part of Ms Ps claim. Should other 
leaseholders wish to complain about NHBCs decision on their own claims, they should do 
so directly with NHBC in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman