DRN-3190242
The complaint
Mr H complains that Allay Claims Limited are asking him to pay their success fees for 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims he said he hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
In 2017, Mr H said he asked his lender Ill call S whether hed any PPI on his mortgage 
account. He said he was told he didnt, but theyd check any other accounts he had. In 
November 2019, Mr H said S told him hed PPI on a store card, and that they had 
assessed his claim for the insurer. They referred to his having a third-party representative, 
Allay. 
In January 2020, Mr H said he received a cheque from S but in the same month Allay 
asked him to pay their fee for his successful claim. He contacted Allay but said he didnt get 
a satisfactory response despite speaking to several people. He said he asked Allay to stop 
harassing him, but they continued to ask for their fee. And are now asking for a fee for 
another PPI claim with a lender Ill call H. Mr H said hed never had an account with H. 
Mr H said it wasnt his signature on the LoA Allay sent to him.
Allay said Mr H enquired about their services in July 2019, and theyd sent him, by post, 
documents for him to complete. As these werent returned, they didnt provide their claims 
service at that time. But they said in August 2019 Mr H completed an on-line application and 
signed the LoA. And theyd acted in good faith in submitting this to his lenders and pursuing 
PPI claims based on the information provided to them in the application. They said theyd 
updated Mr H when PPI had been found, and theyd continued to keep him updated about 
his PPI claims. In January 2020 S told them Mr Hs mis-sold PPI claim had been 
successful. And in March 2020, H also told them Mr Hs mis-sold PPI claim with them had 
been successful for a card account ending *5545. As Mr H hadnt cancelled his agreement 
with Allay, they said their fees were justified.
Mr H wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mr H had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as his 
claims were successful their fees were justified.
Mr H didnt agree, he said he remembered asking for a free PPI check, but he hadnt 
received a postal claim pack. Neither had he received any notifications from Allay about his 
claims, so he hadnt had the option to opt out of any agreement. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Hs claims was because of the submissions they
made for him. Mr H is adamant that Allay didnt have a valid authorisation from him 
instructing them to act on his behalf. Mr H said the signature on Allays LoA isnt his. But its 
not our role to validate a signature as we arent handwriting experts. Were an informal 
dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial 
and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because 
of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. In making my decision I need to determine whether I 
think its more likely than not Mr H had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I 
consider he has, whether Allay knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to see 
whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with him. Mr H has made a 
number of points, I may not refer to each specifically in my decision but please be assured 
all of the points Mr H has brought to us have been considered.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-
sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. 
This is generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. Any claim received after the 29 
August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were 
exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with personal details Mr H has given this
service. The application also needed details of Mr Hs lenders, and these details were also
provided. Allay said that their terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to 
progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA 
populated with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be 
submitted without a signature being added in the application process. Mr H has told us that 
he remembered asking for a free PPi check. 
So Ive looked at Allays terms and conditions they say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
Allays terms and conditions meant that up to when PPI is found they dont charge a fee, this 
is usually referred to as a free PPI check. But from being notified that PPI had been 
identified Allay would provide their claims service, and this would incur a fee if the claim was 
successful.
In September 2019, I can see from Allays records that S told them Mr H had PPI on a 
store card account. Allays records also show they emailed Mr H in October 2019 to notify 
him that PPI had been found and to confirm his claim had been submitted in line with their 
terms and conditions. I can see that lender H told Allay in November 2019 they found hed 
PPI on a card account. And from Allays records an email notifying Mr H that PPI had been 
found by H was sent the next day. So as outlined above from these points Allay would 
have been providing their claims service. Allays records show the notifications were sent to the email address Mr H has given to us and I cant hold Allay responsible for Mr H not 
reading the emails sent to him. 
But PPI being found didnt mean Mr Hs claim was successful as it needed to be considered 
by both lenders whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him. 
In mid-November and December 2019, I can see that Allay sent Mr H email and text 
messages to the same contact details he has given to us updating him about his claims. 
They confirmed his PPI claim had been submitted to the lender with further updates that his 
claim was still being investigated.
In January 2020, S told both Mr H and Allay that his mis-sold PPI claim had been 
successful and the amount of compensation to be awarded. And in March 2020, H told 
both Mr H and Allay that his mis-sold PPI claim was successful. I think this shows that both 
lenders recognised Allay as Mr Hs representative and that they werent dealing with Mr H 
alone. I can see the lenders in their notification to Mr H clearly referred to Allay. 
In January 2020, Allays records show a letter for the mis-sold PPI claim for S headed We 
Won was sent to Mr H, the address being the same as the address Mr H has given to us, an 
invoice for Allays success fee was sent at the same time. In March 2020, I can also see that 
for the successful claim with H Allay sent Great News emails and text messages to the 
contact details Mr H has given to us telling him about his successful claim. So, Im satisfied 
Mr H authorised Allay to act on his behalf in pursuing mis-sold PPI claims.
I will now look to see whether Mr H asked Allay to stop working for him.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to explain how the agreement can be cancelled, verbally, by email, in writing or by 
downloading a cancellation form from Allays website.
Mr H said he wasnt given the opportunity to opt out of Allays services. But I can see Allay 
emailed him on 31 October 2019 to tell him PPI had been found with S and that theyd 
submitted his complaint. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from that date. So, 
Mr H would have had up to 14 November 2019 to cancel the agreement free of any
charge. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H asked Allay to cancel the agreement either
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. 
Allay notified Mr H on 5 November 2019 that PPI had been found with lender H  and that 
theyd submitted his complaint. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from that 
date. So, Mr H would have had up to 19 November 2019 to cancel the agreement free of any
charge. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H asked Allay to cancel the agreement either
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. 
I can see Allay sent further emails and text messages to Mr H, to contact details that hes 
given to us. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr H asked Allay to stop or question them 
as to why they were contacting him. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his 
behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd continued to provide their 
claims service.The agreement Mr H would have had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr Hs 
claim was submitted by Allay just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was successful. 
I think Allay is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision but taking all the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. As I think it more likely Mr H authorised Allay to act on his 
behalf in making mis-sold PPI claims and the agreement hadnt been cancelled. As the 
claims were successful Allay can charge their fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman