DRN-3849396
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car she purchased under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMFL).
What happened
On 30 September 2021 Miss F entered an agreement with BMFL for the purchase of a used 
car costing £8,990. At the time of purchase, the car was nine years old and had travelled 
approximately 90,500 miles.
Under the terms of this agreement, everything else being equal, Miss F undertook to make 
35 monthly payments of £322.48 followed by a final payment of £323.48  making a total 
repayable of £11,610.28 at an APR of 18.9%.
In April 2022 Miss F paid £858 for a second-hand/refurbished gearbox and paid a garage 
£855 for the gearbox to be fitted and for some other works to be undertaken.
In September 2022 Miss F visited another garage for further repairs. This garage said that in 
its opinion the car hadnt been serviced for 20,000 to 30,000 miles.
Following the above two repairs, the second being unsuccessful, Miss F complained to 
BMFL that it had supplied her with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. And as result she 
wanted to reject it.
In October 2022 BMFL wrote to Miss F to say that without an independent report concluding 
that the issues she had experienced with the car were either present or developing at the 
point of sale it wasnt liable to compensate her.
Unhappy with BMFLs response Miss F complained to our service.
Miss Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator came to the 
view that given the age of the car when purchased and when the issues with it arose, the 
additional miles Miss F had added to the odometer between the time of purchase and the 
first issue arising, and the lack of an independent report concluding the issues were either 
present or developing at the point of sale, she couldnt reasonably conclude the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Miss F didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
Im not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. 
As the agreement entered into by Miss F is a regulated one this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. BMFL is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and its responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances. 
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods. So, 
what I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Miss F was of satisfactory 
quality or not. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after the first six 
months, then its for Miss F to prove the fault was present when she first acquired the car. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what shes 
already said, and I think shes set out the position very clearly in her view. 
I dont think theres any dispute that Miss F has experienced issues with the car  that has 
been well evidenced by both her testimony and the documentation shes sent us. But that 
doesnt mean that the issues are necessarily something that I think BMFL ought to be 
responsible for. 
I say this because I dont think its unreasonable to expect that these types of issues might 
arise through normal in-service wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. Furthermore, 
although Miss F has provided our service with some third party documentation in support of 
her complaint, she hasnt provided an independent report that demonstrates that these 
issues were likely to be developing, or were present, at the point of sale.
I appreciate Miss F will be disappointed. But given what I say above, given when the first 
issue arose and the additional miles Miss F was able to add to the odometer between 
September 2021 and this first issue arising, I find that more likely than not she purchased a 
car that was of satisfactory quality. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman