DRN-3857081
The complaint
Mr A, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr A took out two instalment loans from ELL. The first on 7 November 2018 was for £3,100 
over 36 months. The monthly repayments were £266.80 and the total repayable was 
£9,604.80. The second, which in part repaid the first, was taken out on 30 July 2019 and 
was for £4,000 over 42 months. The monthly repayments were £344.16 and the total 
repayable was £14,454.72. I understand there remains an outstanding balance.
Mr A says he was already struggling and these loans extended his indebtedness. He asks 
for the interest he has paid to be refunded, plus compensatory interest, and for the loans to 
be removed from his credit file.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said ELL completed proportionate 
checks for both loan applications and made fair lending decisions based on the information it 
gathered.
Mr A disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr A required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr A. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make fair lending decisions?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr A before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of his income and checked this on payslips. It asked for copies of recent bank
statements. It estimated his living costs using national statistics and added a buffer to cover 
unexpected expenses. It also checked Mr As credit file to understand his existing monthly 
credit commitments and credit history each time. It asked about the purpose of both loans, 
Mr A said the first was for debt consolidation, seasonal costs and car repairs. The second 
was to refinance loan 1 and to settle other debts. From these checks combined ELL 
concluded Mr A could afford to take on the loans as he would have £294.93 monthly 
disposable income left after loan 1 and £83.09 after loan 2.
I think these checks were proportionate for both loans. And based on the information it 
gathered I think ELL made fair lending decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Mr A could afford loan 1 on a pounds and pence basis and I have seen nothing to suggest 
the repayments might not be sustainable. At the time ELLs credit check showed he was up-
to-date with all his active accounts and not over-indebted (£2,783). He did have some older 
adverse data on his credit file with an unsettled county court judgment (CCJ) from 2017, but 
I note he told ELL he was not aware of this debt and would investigate. There was a second 
older CCJ from 2015 but that had been settled. Overall, I dont think there was a level of 
adverse data such that ELL ought to have declined Mr As application. 
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr A.
Loan 2
I have though carefully about loan 2 as it left Mr A with less disposable income. However, 
ELL included a buffer when it estimated his living expenses to be £471 a month. As Mr A 
had provided a recent bank statement to ELL I have checked what his actual living expenses were in the month prior to his loan application and it seems they were lower at around £390. 
So I think it was reasonable for ELL to go ahead and lend, knowing in some months Mr A 
would likely have additional disposable income and its affordability calculation was prudent. 
Again, the credit check showed Mr A was generally managing his existing credit well. He had 
missed one payment on two accounts but this loan was going to be used to repay both of 
debts those in full. And there were no other signs of financial stress in the information ELL 
gathered such as payday lending, reliance on an overdraft facility, or returned direct debits. 
Overall, I think ELL made a fair lending decision.
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr A.
I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. If a 
payment plan needs to be agreed between the parties I would remind ELL of its obligation to 
treat Mr A fairly, and with forbearance if relevant. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman