DRN-3210800
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) relates to the 
payment of an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs B obtained a mortgage from NatWest. One of the terms of the 
mortgage was that if it was re-paid early, an ERC became payable. 
On 13 October 2020 Mr and Mrs B contacted NatWest to discuss their mortgage as they 
were planning to move to a new house and wanted to port it to the new property. Mr and Mrs 
B say they were told that as long as they completed any new mortgage within four months of 
their existing mortgage being repaid, then the ERC would be refunded to them. On 18 
December 2020 Mr and Mrs B exchanged contracts on the sale of their home with a 
completion date scheduled for 4 January 2021. 
On 21 December Mr and Mrs B called NatWest again but were shocked to learn that there 
was a further requirement to be satisfied before they could claim the ERC refund. NatWest 
said Mr and Mrs B had to have a new mortgage application completed on any new property 
prior to their existing mortgage being redeemed. 
But, Mr and Mrs B were unable to get a new mortgage application completed by the time 
they had to redeem their existing mortgage which meant that they could not get the ERC 
refund. Mr and Mrs B have said that as a result they did not have sufficient funds to 
purchase a new property as they were relying on that refund to make the purchase.
NatWest were unable to locate the call recording from 13 October but were able to refer to 
the advisers notes. NatWest say that the adviser told Mr and Mrs B that their mortgage was 
portable but subject to a new application being submitted before their existing mortgage was 
redeemed and also that the new mortgage had to be completed within four months of the 
previous mortgage being redeemed. As such NatWest said they had not given any incorrect 
information to Mr and Mrs B and rejected their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with NatWests final response and approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought the evidence showed 
that Mr and Mrs B had been given the correct advice on 13 October 2020 and as such 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
There is no dispute between the parties that NatWest have an ERC policy. I think Mr and 
Mrs B accept that an ERC can be properly payable in certain circumstances. It would seem 
likely that Mr and Mrs B would accept that an ERC would be payable if they had simply 
redeemed the mortgage and not intended to port it to another property. 
But, their argument is that they specifically rang NatWest to clarify the precise position as to 
porting their mortgage on 13 October. And it was during that call they say they were very 
clearly told that there was only one relevant condition to the ERC refund, that being that any 
new mortgage had to be completed within 4 months of the existing mortgage being 
redeemed. So, they argue, it is unfair that NatWest have now effectively added an additional 
criterion to be satisfied before the ERC can be refunded.
This complaint therefore turns on what Mr and Mrs B were told in the call of the 13 October. I 
do not have the call recording since NatWest have said they cannot locate it. This is very, 
very disappointing for Mr and Mrs B who feel the actual recording would support what they 
say. I have seen internal emails from NatWest staff trying to locate the call without success 
and so I am satisfied that they have genuinely tried to locate it and it is not available for me.
Of the remaining evidence available to me, the best evidence comes in the form of the call 
notes made by the adviser on 13 October. These record that the adviser did tell Mr and 
Mrs B that any new application had to be submitted before their mortgage was redeemed. 
I know Mr and Mrs B dispute this, but if they are right in what they say, it means the adviser 
must have recorded a false note, since it was a very specific note. It is not a case of a slight 
mistake or misinterpretation. I have to consider the likelihood of the adviser making a false 
note being true. Given there would be no personal advantage to the adviser in making a 
false note, I think it more likely than not that the note is accurate. Mr and Mrs B say they 
have their own notes, but those have not been provided to me and so on balance I conclude 
that Mr and Mrs B must be mistaken in their recollection of what was said.
So, although Mr and Mrs B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I dont find any 
evidence of NatWest acting unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman