DRN-3034029
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her incorrect information when switching 
her account that led to her defaulting on some debt.   
What happened
Mrs C had an account with another bank that I will refer to as Bank A. The account had a 
£5,000 overdraft. In July 2019 she visited one of Barclays branches to open a new account 
and switch from Bank A. She requested the new account had the same overdraft so she 
could transfer the balance across.
The account couldnt be opened at the time due to system problems. However a few days 
later the branch staff member contacted Mrs C by text to confirm the details of the account 
and that it had been opened. 
In November 2019 Mrs C was informed that the overdraft on her account with Bank A had 
defaulted as it hadnt been paid in full when the account was closed. Mrs C made a 
complaint to Barclays, as she thought the balance of the overdraft would be automatically 
transferred to her new account, but this hadnt happened. She said she wouldnt have 
defaulted if Barclays had done as she requested. She also said she had received poor 
service and only received her debit card and pin months after the account opened. 
Barclays upheld her complaint in relation to the service received and offered £25 to make up 
for this. However it said it had spoken to the member of staff in branch and they had 
confirmed that the overdraft was declined as soon as Mrs C applied for it and she was 
informed at the time in the branch. So it didnt agree that it was responsible for her other 
account defaulting. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She said she had never been told that she hadnt been accepted for an 
overdraft and that the version of events provided by the staff member was incorrect. She 
said that the default had caused her significant distress as it had meant she couldnt re-
mortgage and move out of her house. She brought her complaint to this service.
During this time Mrs C arranged to have the data extracted from an old phone that had been 
damaged. This meant she was able to obtain a copy of the text messages between her and 
the staff member at the branch, she provided these to this service. These were passed to 
Barclays who subsequently agreed to pay £300 compensation as it accepted its staff 
member had given her unclear information. And it agreed to reimburse the cost of repairing 
her phone. It also agreed to write a letter she could present to Bank A to explain its mistake 
to help Mrs C address the unpaid debt.  
However our investigator didnt think this was enough in the circumstances. She thought 
Barclays should pay a total of £1,000 compensation to make up for the distress it had 
caused. She said the text messages and documentation provided showed that Barclays 
hadnt been clear that the overdraft hadnt been accepted, at any point. And she thought that 
had Mrs C known this, she most likely wouldnt have gone ahead with the account switch. 
Barclays didnt agree to the additional compensation. It said that while it now accepts it 
made an error in the information it gave Mrs C, I felt it was a small error and Mrs C would 
have received notice of the default from Bank A, so could have taken action before it 
happened.
Mrs C also didnt accept our investigators outcome. She didnt think the compensation was 
enough, considering the impact the default had had on her finances. 
The complaint has therefore come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to decide if a business has got something wrong. And 
where I find it has, I consider what would have happened if it hadnt, in order to work out 
what it should do to put things right. 
In this case, Barclays has accepted it gave Mrs C misleading information about the new 
account and overdraft facility. 
Ive looked at the texts provided by Mrs C and I agree that Barclays staff member gave the 
impression that her overdraft had been accepted. 
On 22 July, four days after Mrs C went into the branch to set up the account, the staff 
member said in a text message to her:
I just need to confirm that the overdraft required was 5000?
And shortly after this, he said:
It has now all been sorted, I will just ask you to pop in to branch to sign the switch consent 
form
Mrs C has also provided a copy of the switch consent form. On this it states as follows:
I/We have requested Barclays to arrange a Funding Limit of up to £5,000.00 to clear any 
overdrawn position on my/our old account with [BANK A]
From this correspondence I think Barclays gave Mrs C the impression that the overdraft had 
been approved and it would be used to clear the balance from her account with Bank A.
Ive also looked at the subsequent correspondence Barclays sent to Mrs C in relation to the 
account. While none of the letters confirm there is an overdraft attached to the account, they 
also dont make clear that there isnt. So when considering everything together, I dont think 
Barclays made it clear to Mrs C that she hadnt been approved for the overdraft. And I think 
its reasonable that she assumed she had. 
So as Im satisfied Barclays made a mistake here, I need to consider what would have 
happened if it hadnt. 
Mrs C has said that she hasnt been able to repay the debt that has defaulted. And is still 
paying it off through the appointed debt collection agency. She has explained this is why it 
was so important to her that the overdraft was transferred with the account, as she couldnt 
afford to repay the amount she owed in one go. Based on this, I think its likely Mrs C wouldnt have switched her account if she had known 
the new account wouldnt have an overdraft attached. She knew she wouldnt be able to pay 
what she owed Bank A off, if it closed the account without the balance being transferred. 
Therefore if Barclays hadnt given her misleading information, I think its most likely she 
wouldnt have switched accounts and she wouldnt have defaulted in November 2019.
Based on this, Ive gone on to consider what Barclays should do to put things right. 
Mrs C has explained the impact having a default has had on her. Shes said Barclays should 
offer her a mortgage at the same rate, approve her overdraft and give around £5,000 
compensation. 
From reading Mrs Cs account of the events and her circumstances, I can understand her 
strength of feeling here. However this service cant direct a bank to lend to a customer, so 
asking Barclays to offer lending at a certain rate wouldnt be something I could consider. Im 
also unable to ask Barclays to remove the default, as this was applied by Bank A, so it is 
only that Bank that can direct it to be removed.  
So Ive considered the compensation thats fair in the circumstances. To do this, Ive thought 
about what Mrs C has said about the impact the situation has had on her. In particular:
Mrs C has shown that she had to go to great lengths to extract the text messages from 
her damaged phone. And these text messages disproved Barclays version of events, 
which led to it accepting its error. This caused Mrs C a considerable amount of 
inconvenience and she has had to pay for the information to be extracted. 
Mrs C has provided evidence to show that she is being treated by a psychologist for a 
mental illness. So I understand the additional distress would have had a greater impact 
on her. 
Mrs C has explained that she is currently under a lot of stress due to a home insurance 
claim that has been ongoing for a long time. She has explained that due to this, she 
wishes to move house, so she can separate herself and her husband from the cause of 
her distress. And she says she hasnt been able to obtain the mortgage required, in 
order to do so due to the default.
Mrs C has explained that she has been off work due to the illness and has been through 
a period where she was on reduced wages, and the default has increased the distress 
she was already experiencing and the financial strain she is already under.  
Due to this, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Barclays should pay a total 
of £1,000 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
And I understand the default has caused Mrs C far reaching consequences. But as part of 
this complaint I need to consider the impact of the actions of Barclays. There is some onus 
on Mrs C to ensure she takes action when needed to service her debts. And while the 
information given by Barclays wasnt clear, I think she could have taken further steps to try 
and make sure the debt had been transferred.  So I cant hold Barclays solely responsible 
for the default and therefore all its consequences. So I think £1,000 is fair to make up for the 
impact caused by Barclays.
Barclays has said it considers the compensation to be too high for a minor mistake. However 
Im not considering whether the mistake was big or small, rather the impact it had on Mrs C. 
And in the circumstances I think £1,000 is fair.Barclays has also agreed to write a letter Mrs C can show to Bank A explaining its mistake 
during the switch. As it is Bank A that applied the default, Barclays doesnt have the power to 
remove it, so I think this is a fair resolution in the circumstances. And Barclays has agreed to 
reimburse Mrs C for the cost of extracting the data from her phone. As the text messages 
formed an important part of Mrs Cs evidence, I agree this is also fair. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint ad require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mrs C £1,000 compensation.
Write a letter explaining the error it made when switching Mrs Cs accounts, that she 
can present to Bank A.
Reimburse Mrs C for the cost of extracting the data from her damaged phone.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman