DRN-3430679
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim under his 
previous home insurance policy following a wall collapse which damaged his home.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr W experienced a traumatic event when a large section of wall to the
rear of his home collapsed, resulting in a large accumulation of stone and earth to the rear of
the property. The debris broke through the back door and into the utility room, causing 
damage.
Mr W reported the matter to his current home insurers. The insurance company advised Mr
W to register the claim with AXA under the Association of British Insurers Domestic
Subsidence Agreement (DSA), as a potential landslip occurrence. Mr Ws AXA policy had
covered the period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020.
Mr W then contacted AXA who advised that if this was a sudden collapse then it was likely
the claim should be pursued through his current home insurers, but asked Mr W to send
photographs of the damage. Mr W then instructed experts to try to determine the cause of
the wall collapse and propose solutions for the repair.
Mr W contacted both insurers at the end of March 2021, asking them to sort it out as both
had declined the claim. AXA appointed loss adjusters to determine if a landslip had occurred
and to determine if the claim was covered under the DSA guidelines. Having reviewed the
photographs produced by Mr Ws experts AXA concluded that the damage was due to the
sudden failure of a retaining wall and that the DSA didnt apply in this instance. Mr W 
disagreed with this conclusion and considered that AXA should complete a further 
investigation. AXAs loss adjusters declined a site inspection but agreed to consider any 
further evidence.
In July 2021, Mr W submitted two expert reports to AXA for consideration. AXA took the view
that the reports confirmed that the cause of damage was due to collapse of the wall, not a
landslip or subsidence. It didnt think that the event was covered under the DSA and Mr Ws
AXA policy. Mr W complained to AXA, however it declined to uphold the complaint.
Mr W was dissatisfied as he considered that AXA should refund the cost of debris clearance
and the expert reports and he complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the
complaint. It was the investigators view that, having considered Mr Ws expert reports, the
damage wasnt caused by a landslip. He said he couldnt say AXA was wrong to decline the
claim or that the DSA guidance should be invoked.
Mr W remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and he believed the prime
responsibility remained with AXA. The matter was therefore referred to me to make a
final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In March 2022, I issued my provisional decision for 
this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Ws complaint as follows; -
The two issues for me to determine are firstly, whether AXA acted in a fair and reasonable
manner in concluding that the collapse of the wall wasnt caused by heave, landslip or
subsidence. Secondly, whether it was fair and reasonable for AXA to rely upon the DSA to
decline to deal with Mr Ws claim. I consider that it didnt act fairly and reasonably in both
respects for the following reasons.
Mr Ws home insurance policy with AXA was no longer in force when the incident occurred
at Mr Ws property in January 2021. The DSA sets out which insurer should deal with heave,
landslip and subsidence-related claims which straddle two periods of insurance and two
policies. Where a relevant claim is made eight weeks or less after the start date of a new
policy, the previous insurer is expected to deal with that claim when its more likely than not
that the movement that caused the damage started before the incident. The guidelines
suggest that the DSA applies even if theres no evidence of damage caused by subsidence,
heave or landslip occurring over the course of both policies. The exception to this is where
the damage is due to a sudden subterranean event.
The first issue for me to consider is the wording of the AXA home insurance policy in the
light of the findings of the expert reports obtained by Mr W. The policy terms and conditions
include the following relevant definitions; -
Heave The upward or sideways movement of the site on which your buildings are situated
caused by swelling of the ground.
Landslip - Sudden movement of soil on a slope or gradual creep of a slope over a period
of time.
Subsidence - Downward movement of the site on which the buildings are situated by a
cause other than the weight of the buildings themselves.
As to what is covered under the policy, this includes loss or damage including accidental
damage to the buildings. What is not covered includes loss or damagetogarden
wallsby subsidence heave or landslip unless the home has been damaged at the same
time by the same cause.
The definition of Buildings includes the structure of the home including fixtures and fittings
and the following if they form part of the property walls.,
Cover also includes the reasonable additional costs and expenses incurred as a result of a
valid claim for damage to the buildings on this policy for:
1 architects, surveyors, consulting engineers and legal fees
2 the cost of clearing debris from the site or demolishing or shoring up the buildings
I now refer to the relevant reports. The report which Mr W obtained in June 2021 was from a
firm specialising in ground conditions. It noted that a 2m section of the wall in question had
partially collapsed and that it was in front of a steep 3m to 3.5m high slope. It stated that the
cause of the wall collapse was unknown, however, it appears that the over steepened, cut
face has been supported by a stone facing rather than a true retaining structure Walls
and slopes often fail during the wetter, winter, months, when water pressures inevitably
increase. No formal through drainage was noted. The inclusion of the concrete buttress and
sloping concrete steps/terracing appear to have been constructed to provide additional, post
construction, support. The report went on to state that Such water pressures can have a
destabilising effect and also; The surcharge from the tree, plus root action may well have
had a destabilising influence.
The report which Mr W obtained in July 2021 was from a firm of structural engineers. It noted
that the wall collapse occurred between a buttress and an adjacent extension. It noted also
that the wall was of dry-stone type construction and some form of binder had been usedbetween some of the stones but not all. The report stated that each terrace of stone wall
was constructed on the soil behind the stonework of the wall below, meaning the wall was a
facing rather than a retaining wall. In simple terms, the wall is not able to resist horizontal
forces meaning it is not a retaining structure.
The report goes on to say The soil behind the wall is cut very steeply and above the natural
angle of repose of the soil. This simply means that if material of this type is excavated to this
steep slope and is left to weather naturally, it would after an undefined period collapse to an
angle close to the natural slope angle. This angle is difficult to define without testing of the
soil but broadly would be near 30 degrees. With the application of the facing stones and
concrete protection on the surface these protect the soils from weathering but do not
completely halt fully the risk that the soils will collapse.
As to the reasons for the failure of the wall, the report states that Many factors can affect the
stability of a steeply cut slope including the natural faults in the soil, water penetration and
trees. From the inspections it is not possible to determine if water (from the air or ground)
has contributed to the collapse of the wall, but the tree roots located in the upper soil may
have destabilised the wall stones by direct contact. It also states that The facing wall has
been provided to protect steeply cut natural soil which has moved due to some unknown
mechanism. The construction of the facing wall is such that it was not able to support the
horizontal forces caused by the soil and so failed. The report concludes that its not been
possible to define what caused the soil behind the wall to move. It stated that, to determine
what safe repair solution might work, intrusive geotechnical work was required.
Turning to what AXA says about the matter, it based its initial view that no landslip had
occurred on a review of the photographs supplied by Mr Ws experts and considered that, in
view of the DSA, it was a matter for the current insurers. As Mr W disagreed, AXA then
appointed a firm of loss adjusters to validate the claim on its behalf. The firm didnt visit Mr
Ws property to inspect the damage, however it also reviewed this same information. It
considered this sufficient to support the decision to decline the claim.
In conclusion, AXA considered that both reports supported its decision to decline the claim. I
also note from its claim notes that AXA had taken the view that the photographs didnt
appear to show a landslip but instead, the collapse of the retaining wall. It said that its very
likely that the collapse of the wall was due to increased hydrostatic pressure rather than
landslip and it said that even if a landslip occurred, it considered it to be a sudden
occurrence which occurred outside the policy period.
Looking at what Mr W says about the incident, he thinks that its clear from both expert
reports that the soil moved suddenly, destroying a facing wall, causing damage to the back
of his house. He said it was also worth noting that the experts had carried out detailed
inspections on site, whereas AXAs representatives had declined the opportunity to inspect.
He said that it was important to note that the rear of the house was damaged at the same
time as the collapse.
Mr W thought that the key finding in the June report was that the cause of the collapse was
the failure of a facing wall, not the failure of a retaining wall and not a landslip. He also
conceded that his structural engineers stated that the vertical nature of the slope means that
its not a landslip cause. He says The professionals are clear that landslip is not the cause.
But they do not know what the cause is. The fact that no person we have spoken with knows
what is the cause, is central to our argument, that the fall of soil and rock definitely 
happened, but cannot be definitely categorised nor dismissed. It is defined as one or another
description, but without certainty. Mr W then provides definitions of landslip from various
sources and he said that there is no clear definition in practice.He concluded that The question is whether the definition is met, not whether by using
extrinsic evidence, the terminology is or is not apt We believe that AXA cannot point to
any convincing evidence that the definition is or is not satisfied. He says that there has firstly
been a movement of soil, which was sudden and, at the same time, caused damage to his
home. He considered it unnecessary for him to establish the underlying cause, because he
said that AXAs policy wording didnt require this.
Ive considered all of the evidence and submissions in this matter very carefully and Ive had
particular regard to the reports of the experts appointed by Mr W and the views of the loss
adjusters appointed by AXA. My provisional conclusions in this matter are as follows.
The AXA policy booklet which contains the terms and conditions of cover is my starting
point. In principle, the damage to the rear of Mr Ws property and the garden wall would
normally be covered by the policy (putting aside for a moment the issue that AXA is not Mr
Ws current insurer). This is because the cover includes loss or damage to Mr Ws property
including garden walls. The structural engineers report confirms that the wall which
collapsed was a facing wall as opposed to a retaining wall. It was nevertheless a garden wall
within the curtilage of the home.
Damage to garden walls are covered in principle in cases of heave, subsidence and landslip
under the policy wording. The policy doesnt however cover damage to garden walls unless
the home has been damaged at the same time by the same cause. I consider that if a
landslip has occurred within the policy definition and that this damages the home, then
damage to garden walls is included in principle under the terms of the policy.
As to the relevant definitions, regardless of other definitions, including industry definitions,
the specific definitions of heave, subsidence, and landslip which I must consider are those
contained in the AXA policy document.
AXA stated that it considered that the expert evidence showed that the collapse wasnt
caused by a landslip. Unfortunately, however, this view was given without reference to the
specific AXA policy definition of landslip. Unless Im persuaded otherwise by any further
submissions or evidence, Im satisfied that the specific definition of landslip in AXAs policy
terms and conditions describes the events which occurred in January 2021. Its necessary to
give the definition wording its ordinary and straightforward meaning. The definition doesnt
require a conclusive determination as to cause of any movement. Neither does it exclude
circumstances where the cut face of the slope was over-steepened.
Landslip is defined as Sudden movement of soil on a slope or gradual creep of a slope
over a period of time. Neither of the expert reports give a definitive view as to whether the
cause of the wall collapse was sudden or gradual. What is clear however from the structural
engineers report, is that he considers the cause to have been due to the movement of soil; -
steeply cut natural soil which has moved due to some unknown mechanism. The
construction of the facing wall is such that it was not able to support the horizontal forces
caused by the soil and so failed.
AXA might, with some justification, argue that under the DSA if the damage is due to a
sudden subterranean event, it wouldnt be expected to deal with the claim as it no longer
insured Mr W at the time of the event. Ive come to the provisional conclusion however that
the damage is not due to a sudden subterranean event. On the balance of probabilities, I
consider that the collapse of the facing wall occurred due to the gradual force of movement
of soil or gradual creep as per the policy definition.
The structural engineer noted that the existing slope had been cut steeper than is stable and
I therefore consider it more likely than not that the horizontal forces had built up over aperiod of time. The June 2021 report on the ground conditions supports this conclusion; - 
slopes often fail during the wetter, winter, months, when water pressures inevitably
increase. The fact that movement of soil may be exacerbated by the presence of tree roots
or water pressure over winter does not alter fulfilment of the ordinary and straightforward
meaning of the definition of landslip within AXAs policy, which includes gradual creep of a
slope. The fact that a gradual force can ultimately result in a sudden wall collapse, likewise
doesnt alter this conclusion.
This provisional conclusion is also supported by the photographs provided in both reports.
Given the original height of the wall and the amount of debris visible against the back of Mr
Ws house, the photographs show that the steeply cut soil slope moved and collapsed, so
causing damage.
I appreciate that the structure was a facing wall rather than a retaining wall. In this specific
case however, nothing in the expert reports indicate the collapse being primarily caused by
the condition and construction of the facing wall itself.
Im satisfied on a provisional basis therefore, that although the expert reports didnt come to
a firm conclusion as to the reason for the failure, it was clear to the extent that the failure
was due to movement of soil; natural soil which has moved due to some unknown
mechanism. In conclusion, unless Im persuaded otherwise, the specific definition of
landslip in the policy is fulfilled in this instance on the facts and evidence.
I consider that its more likely than not that the soil movement took place over a period of
time, particularly over the winter months of 2020/2021 and that it was not caused by a
sudden event nor indeed a sudden subterranean event. This movement fulfils the definition
of a landslip in AXAs policy document. As the home was damaged at the same time by the
same cause, then I consider the damage to be covered under policy.
I also consider that due to the expectations of the DSA document, it falls to AXA to handle
this claim under the provisions of its policy. I therefore conclude on a provisional basis that it
wasnt fair or reasonable for AXA to decline to provide cover to Mr W in the circumstances.
In my provisional decision, I asked both AXA and Mr W if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I came to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA provided further submissions in response to the preliminary decision. Firstly, it thought 
that it was inconsistent with decisions received from our service in similar cases. It also 
thought that the claim related to failure of a stone wall, which subsequently allowed 
supporting soils and rubble to collapse against the rear wall of the property. It thought that 
there had been no evidence of subsidence, heave, or landslip and that the DSA therefore 
didnt operate. It considered that the claim should have been diverted to the current insurers. 
AXA referred to the report of Mr Ws engineer and his comments that brief inspection of 
available online LIDAR information does not reveal additional evidence which is conclusive 
of extensive landslipping at this location, and that, No landslipping is reported at or 
adjacent to the site,... AXA also considered that the slope stability analysis and site 
investigations had not identified landslip, even taking into account the steep nature of the cut 
slope.AXA didnt think that Mr Ws engineer presented evidence to support the occurrence of 
landslip, being silent on precise causation. In addition, it didnt consider that the policy 
definition of this mechanism was supported by the engineers findings. It concluded that the 
ground had moved solely as a result of the walls failure, and not under its own design or 
influence.
Finally, AXA was concerned that classing such damage as landslip would have broader 
implications across the claims it receives for failure of retaining walls where there is an 
inevitable shift of earth that follows.
Mr B accepted the provisional conclusions in full but added some comments. He stated that 
hed been careful to handle his case in accordance with the rules set down by the AXA 
policy. He stated that; after such a long time period since the January 2021 incident, during 
which time we have had to live with the trauma of the event, with dust, dirt, draughts and 
inconvenience, we had just asked a structural engineer and a builder to clear the site and 
make safe, so they can proceed with wall repair. He said that he would proceed with the 
lowest priced quotation of three unless advised by our service or AXA to delay the work 
I will deal with each of AXAs submissions in turn. As to consistency of the services 
decisions, every decision is made on the facts of each specific case. In this instance, the 
very specific facts and the experts conclusions have led to this particular outcome. Its 
appreciated that if the expert evidence had shown that this wasnt a landslip event under the 
terms of AXAs policy, the outcome may have been different. This is clearly not the case 
however and AXA hasnt produced further evidence which persuades me otherwise.
As to the DSA, Ive explained within the preliminary decision why it was considered that it 
would operate in this specific case. This is linked to the finding of a landslip event and I wont 
repeat the detailed analysis at this point.
As to diversion of this matter to Mr Ws current insurers, unfortunately I cannot consider the 
relative merits of a complaint against alternative insurers under their policy as opposed to 
that of AXA. The complaint under consideration is against AXA and I can therefore only 
consider the facts under the terms and conditions of AXAs policy and in the light of the DSA. 
Im satisfied however that the evidence supports the decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint 
against AXA as follows.
Turning to the crux of the matter and the findings of Mr Ws engineer, I note AXAs reference 
to the fact  that LIDAR information didnt show conclusive evidence of extensive land-
slipping and that no land-slipping was reported at or adjacent to the site [My emphasis]. 
However, this doesnt undermine the engineers recorded view of the most probable cause 
being movement of soil, following his specific on-site investigations. The lack of previously 
reported or extensive land-slipping doesnt alter this conclusion. As explained in the 
provisional decision, the specific wording and conclusions provided by the engineer as to 
what he considered to be the cause of the collapse entirely fulfilled the specific wording and 
meaning contained in AXAs definition of landslip.  There was no evidence to the contrary 
from other sources such as LIDAR. 
I also note that AXA accept that the collapsed wall hadnt been designed as a retaining 
structure and didnt include formal weep holes. It considered however that the ground had 
moved solely as a result of the walls failure. As recorded in the provisional decision; 
although the expert reports didnt come to a firm conclusion as to the reason for the failure, 
it was clear to the extent that the failure was due to movement of soil; natural soil which has 
moved due to some unknown mechanism. In summary, whilst I agree that there was a 
collapse of the wall, this wall was described by experts as a facing wall rather than a 
retaining wall. Crucially, the expert conclusion was that the collapse was caused by movement of soil against the facing wall and not due to the failure of the wall itself, whether 
by design failure, under its own influence or otherwise.
AXA states that Mr Ws engineer hasnt presented evidence to support the occurrence of 
landslip, the engineer being silent on precise causation. Its the case however that the expert 
provided a detailed analysis in his report and clearly concluded that the collapse occurred 
due to movement of soil. This is entirely consistent with being a sudden movement of soil 
on a slope or gradual creep of a slope over a period of time. This is AXAs policys clear and 
specific definition of landslip and this description of the landslip mechanism is therefore 
supported by the engineers findings.
In summary, Im satisfied that a landslip event took place in accordance with the wording of 
AXAs policy definition. Im also satisfied as stated in the provisional decision, that as the 
home was damaged at the same time by the same root cause as damage to the wall, the 
policy terms and conditions are fulfilled and the damage is covered under the policy.
I note AXAs concern about broader implications in cases relating to failure of retaining walls. 
AXA accepts however that in this case, the wall was not designed and did not act as a 
retaining wall. This decision therefore turns on the specific facts and evidence in this case. 
In conclusion, AXA hasnt produced any fresh evidence to persuade me to overturn the 
provisional decision. Ive carefully considered AXAs submissions however I dont consider 
that these alter the position. I appreciate that AXA will be disappointed by the outcome and 
that its an unusual case. The facts and evidence lead me to the firm conclusion however 
that the damage was covered under AXAs policy. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc
to settle Mr Ws claim under the terms of the home insurance policy he previously held with
AXA
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman