DRN-4515877
The complaint
Miss H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc treated her unfairly when she reported 
making a payment to someone she now believes defrauded her.
What happened
Miss H holds a current account with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). In late 2021 
she was contacted by a friend of some years standing. For ease in what follows I will refer to 
this friend (now former friend) as F.
F said she was getting married and invited Miss H to attend. As the wedding was taking 
place overseas, Miss H was asked to pay for her own hotel accommodation.
Miss H accepted the invitation and on 17 November 2021, she sent F £155 by bank transfer 
to cover the accommodation cost.
In December, Miss H messaged F asking for a receipt. F sent a copy of the hotel receipt 
showing a much higher sum, in Fs fiancs name. She explained that this was the receipt for 
the whole reservation, and that she didnt have individual receipts.
Miss H asked F what the hotel policy was on deposits, in case of a refund being requested  
citing the possibility of Covid-19 being an issue. F replied that no refunds were available but 
that as the event wasnt until later in the year, hopefully this wouldnt be an issue.
Miss H has since looked at the hotels own website, and this indicates refunds should be 
possible. She says F has ceased responding to her messages.
Concerned that F had scammed her, she reported the matter to NatWest.
NatWest initially said that while her claim wouldnt normally have succeeded it would refund 
her the sum shed lost as a gesture of goodwill. It said this concluded its investigation.
However, two months later NatWest wrote again. This time it said it wouldnt be refunding 
Miss H. It said this was a dispute between her and F. The bank reversed the credit it had 
applied to Miss Hs account.
Miss H was unhappy with this and complained. She subsequently made NatWest aware that 
she suffers from a serious mental health condition and that she had done so at the time of 
the payment. She thought NatWest hadnt done enough at the time of the payment and she 
didnt think it had treated her appropriately afterwards, including when shed raised her 
complaint. It had fallen short on numerous occasions throughout. 
That included when shed made a Subject Access Request (SAR). NatWest accepted it 
hadnt handled the SAR as it should have done, and paid Miss H £100 compensation. 
Miss H remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. Our Investigator said 
he thought NatWest hadnt handled the withdrawal of the funds from Miss Hs account 
appropriately, in particular by not making it clear that this might be reversed. By way of 
putting things right, he said NatWest should therefore recredit the funds it had removed and 
add interest from the date of the reversal. But he didnt think NatWests handling was 
sufficiently poor to merit an award for distress or inconvenience.
NatWest accepted the Investigators findings. Miss H disagreed. She submitted a dossier of 
evidence supporting her case and argued that she should receive a full refund, with interest 
plus an award of £3,500 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Miss Hs complaint on 15 November 2023. 
In my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to upheld Miss Hs complaint in part 
and offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. 
An extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Where the evidence is unclear or more than one explanation is possible, I am required 
to make my findings based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, based on 
what I consider to be most likely given the available evidence.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the distress Miss H has been caused by what happened 
here. It has clearly had a significant impact. She made a payment in good faith to her 
seeming friend, and not only has that relationship now broken down, but Miss H 
suspects F may have misappropriated her funds. Miss H explains about the 
consequences of this betrayal of trust, and how she has since suffered with a number of 
health issues. Miss H says this impact resulted in part from NatWests handling of the 
matter.
In considering NatWests handling of the matter, it is important to begin by considering 
the relevant obligations it faced here. As a starting point, a bank is required to execute 
the correctly authorised payment instructions of its customers without delay. NatWest 
was obligated to make the payment Miss H told it to. Miss H is therefore responsible for 
the payment she instructed NatWest to make for her. 
Unfortunately, theres little protection available for bank transfer payments, as this was. 
The protections that would apply against breach of contract or misrepresentation if the 
payment had somehow been made by card arent available here.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM 
Code) does provide some protection to victims of APP scams where the payment is 
made by bank transfer. But it only applies to APP scams, and it includes a specific 
exclusion for: private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate 
supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
NatWest says it considers (seemingly based on information it received from the 
recipient bank) that this was a buyer-seller dispute and so reimbursement under the 
CRM Code isnt applicable. I understand by this that it seeks to rely on this exception 
from the code for private civil disputes, and so does not consider the CRM Code 
applies. I have therefore considered whether NatWest can fairly seek to rely on that 
exception.
Importantly, failure to provide goods or services isnt sufficient for the code to apply. 
Neither would a defective service, such as not providing a booking receipt or failing to 
plan the travel arrangements. In order to find that NatWest was somehow liable to Miss 
H under the CRM Code, Id need to find that the evidence was strong enough to show 
this had been a deliberate, criminal scam from the outset rather than it being such a 
private civil dispute between Miss H and F.Simply put, that means deciding whether the available evidence shows it is most likely 
that F set out to defraud Miss H with criminal intent. That is a high bar to meet.
I appreciate Miss H now believes her friend deceived her about the hotel booking. She 
explains that there is no evidence that a booking specifically for her was made. While F 
has produced a receipt from that hotel for a much larger sum, and while I think Miss H 
accepts this might be for the overall wedding booking, she points out that there is no 
confirmation of her own individual room booking. 
Miss H has tried without success to clarify this with the hotel directly. I cannot know 
whether or not F did arrange for Miss H to have a room at the hotel as she said she 
would, perhaps as part of a much larger package paid for by her fianc. It is possible 
she did, and it is possible she did not. While Miss H believes her friend deliberately 
deceived her about the hotels cancellation policy, it is not clear to me that this was the 
case. The information Miss H has supplied about cancellation relates to individual room 
bookings made directly with the hotel. It is not clear whether that would extend to a 
group booking such as it appears this was, nor that Fs comment wasnt simply one 
made in error and without malicious intent.
All considered I simply cant safely conclude that F took Miss Hs money without ever 
having the intention of booking accommodation for her. The evidence available to me 
simply isnt enough to support such a finding. It isnt inconsistent with this having been 
simply as it appeared to be. So, I dont think NatWest was at fault in reaching the 
outcome it did.
However, prior to reaching that outcome, NatWest had initially refunded Miss H. It said it 
did so outside the provisions of the CRM Code, and as a gesture of goodwill. When 
NatWest received information that led it to believe the matter a private civil dispute, it 
reversed the credit it had placed on Miss Hs account. 
NatWest says its staff would have made Miss H aware this was possible at the time 
they spoke to her about the initial credit. It says that wording is part of the disclaimer 
they were required to read. Miss H says that wasnt something she was made aware of.
Unfortunately, NatWest has been unable to produce the call recording or other evidence 
that might show Miss H was told the credit might later be reversed. 
Based on Miss Hs response when the credit was reversed, evidenced by her 
contemporaneous correspondence and telephone conversations with the bank, Im 
persuaded she wasnt aware this was possible. Even though I accept it is possible that 
NatWest told her at the time, I dont think it took sufficient steps to make sure she 
appreciated what this meant.
In any event, I find NatWest should have done more to make Miss H aware of what 
might happen. After all, it seems to me that from the outset the bank would have 
realised there was a significant chance that F would dispute the scam claim, and 
reversal of the credit was a likelihood. I think NatWest ought to have anticipated this 
likelihood and taken steps to reduce any confusion or distress caused when it needed 
to later reverse the payment. Not making Miss H sufficiently aware of this strong 
possibility meant that when it happened, she suffered unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. 
I have also noted Miss Hs comments about the subsequent interactions she had with 
NatWest by phone, email and letter. With this in mind Ive reviewed the banks 
correspondence and telephone interactions with her. But while I appreciate Miss Hs frustrations with the matter, I dont find this went beyond the normal day to day 
frustrations that might reasonably be anticipated in resolving a complaint about financial 
matters. 
NatWest accepts it could have handled Miss Hs associated Subject Access Request 
better. It has already paid her the sum of £100 in respect of this. I think that is a fair sum 
in the circumstances. Miss H comments that if NatWest was to be fined by the ICO for 
handling requests in this manner the fine would be higher than the £100 the bank 
offered. I do not have the powers of a regulator, such as the ability to punish or fine 
businesses for failure to meet regulatory requirements. Thinking about the impact Miss 
H has described for this aspect of the matter, and taking account of all the 
circumstances, I consider £100 to be broadly in line with the award Id likely have made.
Ive also taken into account Miss Hs comments about why she believes the bank didnt 
do enough at the time of making the original payment. However, I dont consider there 
was sufficient reason for NatWest to have had significant or specific concerns about this 
payment instruction  to the extent that it shouldnt have processed it. The value was 
not remarkable in the context of Miss Hs typical account usage. There wouldnt have 
been any indication from the banks perspective that all might not be as it seemed. It 
was obliged to make the payment Miss H was instructing it to make.
That means I dont consider NatWest can fairly be expected to have provided a specific 
scam warning, or even to refuse to process Miss Hs instructions. And in any event, had 
the bank taken either step, I dont think that would have led Miss H not to make the 
payment  at the time she believed it was entirely legitimate in nature.
That being said, I have found that NatWest could have handled matters better 
surrounding the reversal of the payment credit. I have gone on to consider the impact of 
this on Miss H.
In saying this, I cannot easily disentangle the effect of Miss Hs subsequent interactions 
with NatWest from the original effect of Fs apparent betrayal of trust. However, in order 
to reach a fair outcome that distinction is one I must make. I must also consider the 
degree of foreseeability for the share of the impact for which NatWest was responsible.
Ive taken careful account of everything Miss H has submitted, and I have reviewed the 
documents and call recordings made available to me. While, as Ive observed, I cannot 
know for certain what extent of the consequences incurred by Miss H flowed solely from 
NatWests actions (or inactions), I consider that the primary cause of what happened 
here was what happened between Miss H and her friend. But for that, the rest would not 
have followed. 
In terms of apportioning the blame for this impact, as a general point it seems to me that 
the perceived betrayal of trust by someone trusted as a friend must count for 
significantly more than even poor service by a company a customer deals with as a 
result. That is reflected in Miss Hs own comments about the results of these events. 
That is not to belittle the impact poor service can have in such a situation. But taking 
into account what Miss H has said, I consider the friend was significantly more to blame 
here than NatWest.
Because I find NatWest was entitled not to consider Miss Hs claim under the CRM 
Code, and was entitled to reverse the credit it had earlier applied as a gesture of 
goodwill, I do not find the bank is liable to recompense her for the money she lost to F.
But all considered I do find NatWest added to the impact on Miss H of an already upsetting and distressing situation. Some of the additional distress and inconvenience 
caused was the result of NatWests actions and inactions here. While I consider that 
was significantly less than the impact of Fs actions, I think it fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances that NatWest should pay Miss H compensation in respect of the 
additional distress and inconvenience it caused her. All taken into account I consider the 
sum of £250 would fairly compensate Miss H for this.
I appreciate Miss H would like a higher sum, and that she also wants the bank to pay 
her for the money she lost to her former friend. But I need to be fair to both sides, and I 
think that a considerable portion of the impact this matter had on her was due to F not to 
NatWest. And I do not find NatWest is liable to Miss H for the sum she paid to F.
My provisional decision
As set out above Im minded to find that NatWest should pay Miss H the sum of £250 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience she was caused by its handling of this matter. 
In my provisional decision, I asked both sides to provide any further arguments or 
information by 12 December 2023, after which point, I said I would issue my final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H did not respond to my provisional conclusions, or raise any additional information or 
arguments. 
NatWest responded to accept the decision and did not raise any objections or arguments.
In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings and the resolution I proposed in 
my provisional decision as quoted above, and for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
It is my final decision that NatWest should pay Miss H the sum of £250 in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused by its handling of this matter. 
NatWest should make this payment to Miss H within 28 days of receiving her acceptance of 
this decision and the details of the account to which she wishes the payment to be sent.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to partly uphold 
Miss Hs complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman