DRN-1353325
The complaint
Mr E complains about the word limit on Nationwide Building Society's online messaging 
service. 
What happened
On 29 April 2019 Mr E was charged £6.50 after he made a Visa card payment to a dry 
cleaning business. On 8 May 2019 Mr E tried to raise a Visa dispute via Nationwides online 
messaging facility. Mr E says the facility didn't give him enough space to explain the 
circumstances of his claim or attach supporting documents. 
Nationwide looked at Mr Es chargeback claim but didnt refund the disputed transaction. 
Mr E complained about the messaging system and Nationwide responded on 28 August 
2019 and said he could have telephoned to raise his dispute. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr 
Es complaint and he asked us to review it. The case was passed to an investigator at our 
service, but they thought Nationwide had dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
do anything else. Mr E asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es complaint about the outcome of his Visa dispute has been dealt with in a different 
decision. In this decision, Im going to talk about Mr Es complaint regarding Nationwides 
messaging system. 
I understand Mr E feels the messaging system doesnt allow sufficient space for a Visa 
dispute to be clearly set out. But Mr E was able to raise a Visa dispute after he contacted 
Nationwide via its messaging system. And Nationwide has explained that Mr E also had the 
option of calling it. I haven't found that Mr E's Visa dispute was impacted by the space 
provided by Nationwide in its messaging system. 
Mr E says that the number given in Nationwides final response doesnt appear on its 
website. Ive looked at Nationwides website and whilst I didnt see the number given its final 
response, I did find various ways of contacting it to ask questions. Details of Nationwides 
customer services teams, which would have been able to assist in raising a Visa dispute, 
were straight forward to locate. I note Mr Es comments, but Im satisfied there were other 
ways to contact Nationwide if he didnt feel the messaging system offered enough room to 
explain the details of his Visa dispute. 
Mr E was able to raise a Visa dispute and I havent found that he was unreasonably 
inconvenienced by the amount of information he could include when he contacted 
Nationwide via its messaging system. Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but as I havent been persuaded Nationwide has made an error or treated him unfairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman