DRN-2497284
The complaint
Mr H complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) sent him a marketing email to an 
incorrect email address.
What happened
Mr H said Zurich sent a marketing email to an address associated with a complaint. This was 
inappropriate and irrelevant to the complaint. He said such emails should only be sent to his 
personal address which he had used for the last five years. Hed never registered the 
complaint email address for use as a point of contact. He wanted Zurich to review all internal 
systems to make sure his correct email address was recorded. He also wanted an apology 
and a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience this caused him. He said this wasnt the fist 
mistake Zurich had made.
Zurich said Mr H had registered an email address with it in October 2019 and in June 2020 
when registering on a portal entered a second address. It said that when Mr H entered the 
second address its systems automatically updated the first. It apologised and confirmed the 
record was corrected. It didnt uphold the complaint as it said it had used an address Mr H 
had registered with it.
The investigator said she didnt think Zurich needed to take any further action. She 
considered whether an error happened and whether any compensation should be paid. She 
thought Zurich probably did make an error. She considered the impact on Mr H. She thought 
the error mustve caused frustration but there was no data protection breach and Zurich took 
immediate action to update its records. She noted Zurich had apologised but didnt think 
anything further was required.
Mr H didnt agree as he said hed had reason to complain about several issues. Zurich had 
nothing further to add as it said Mr H hadnt produced any new evidence to cause it to 
reconsider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has used a dispute resolution service to deal with complaints made to 
Zurich. That service issues a specific email address for each complaint. Zurich dont dispute 
that marketing material was sent to one of Mr Hs complaint email addresses rather than his 
personal email address but the cause of the isnt agreed.
I think it is appropriate that such material should go to Mr Hs personal address and not to 
the complaint email address. Mr H thinks this was an error by Zurich whereas Zurich 
suggests Mr H registered the address. Based on the information supplied I cannot be certain 
how this happened, but the fact remains it isnt appropriate to send marketing emails to a 
complaint address which shouldnt be used for normal communication about the 
management of Mr Hs plan nor for any marketing to Mr H. 
In order to make any award I need to conclude that Zurich made a mistake. But I cannot 
reach a clear conclusion as to the cause of this issue and therefore cannot be certain Zurich 
was at fault. But I dont think it makes a difference. I say that because I have in any event 
explained what I would have considered to be fair and reasonable had I concluded that 
Zurich was at fault. For the reasons given below I would not have proposed Zurich take any 
further action so it wouldnt make a difference to my conclusion had I been able to reach a 
clear decision about the cause of the issue.
Mr H has not suggested any financial loss has occurred, so no award would be needed for 
financial loss.
If Zurich had made an error, I would consider an award for distress and inconvenience. Such 
awards are to reflect the impact on Mr H and not to punish Zurich. 
I have considered that Mr H says Zurich has made several mistakes. While I am not 
considering those complaints here, I can understand that a pattern of mistakes might make 
this situation more frustrating than it wouldve been had this been an isolated issue. I can 
understand Mr Hs frustration at having to ask Zurich to correct the address used. But, the 
issue didnt result in any financial loss or other harm, it was corrected and an apology given. 
I think these were fair and reasonable actions. So, I dont think any further award wouldve 
been reasonable in these circumstances.
I appreciate this may leave Mr H frustrated that this issue might recur. But this service cant 
punish Zurich nor direct it how to run and improve its operations, that is a matter for the 
regulator. 
Having considered the complaint, I think Zurich has taken reasonable steps to remedy the 
issue. 
My final decision
I dont think Zurich Assurance Ltd needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman