DRN-4146681
Complaint
Ms L has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams) irresponsibly 
provided her with catalogue shopping accounts and limit increases despite the fact that they 
were unaffordable. 
Background
Ms L had three catalogue shopping accounts with J D Williams in total. The following 
accounts were opened on the following dates:
Account A  Opened December 2014 
Account B  Opened March 2015 
Account C  Opened August 2017 
When it considered Ms Ls complaint, J D Williams partially upheld it. It agreed to do the 
following:
Account A  refund all interest and charges as a result of limit increases from February 2015
Account B  refund all interest and charges from the outset
Account C  not upheld so no refund
One of our adjudicators looked at everything provided and thought that what J D Williams 
had agreed to do to put things right for Ms L was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of her case. So he didnt think that it needed to do anything further. 
Ms L disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans review of her complaint.
As the parties are already in agreement with over the outcome on account B and the 
outcome on the limit increases on account A from February 2015, this decision is only 
looking at the initial decision to provide account A and what happened on account C. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that J D 
Williams should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive kept all of this in mind when deciding Ms Ls complaint.
As J D Williams accepts that it shouldnt have provided any of the limit increases on 
accounts A and shouldnt have provided account B at all, I only need to consider whether the 
initial decision to open account A and the decision to provide account C, as well as the 
subsequent credit limit increases, were fair and reasonable.
Account A
Account A was opened in December 2014 with a credit limit of £125. The catalogue 
shopping account J D Williams provided Ms L with was a revolving credit facility. This meant 
that J D Williams was required to understand whether Ms L could repay within a reasonable 
period of time. 
I understand that J D Williams carried out a credit check before initially agreeing to provide 
this account. J D Williams has been unable to provide the output of its credit checks. But 
given these credit checks were carried out a number of years ago, I dont find this too 
surprising and Ive not drawn any adverse inferences from this.
What is important to note is that a credit limit of £125 required relatively small monthly 
payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. And the 
information Ive seen about Ms L circumstances doesnt indicate to me that she didnt have  
the funds to make the low monthly payment required. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for J D Williams to have opened 
account A for Ms L. And I find that J D Williams didnt treat Ms L unfairly when it initially 
opened account A with a credit limit of £125 in December 2014.
Furthermore, as J D Williams has already accepted that it shouldnt have increased the 
credit limit on this accounts and has already refunded the extra interest Ms L paid as a result 
of these increases, Im also satisfied that J D Williams hasnt treated Ms L unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to account A.
Account CJ D Williams has said that it also carried out a credit check before providing this account.      
J D Williams hasnt provided the output of its credit checks before its initial decision to 
provide this account or the subsequent credit limit increases. But I dont think that this 
matters too much because this was Ms Ls had three accounts with J D Williams by this 
stage. 
So I would have expected J D Williams to have found out more about Ms Ls income and 
expenditure before initially providing this account and increasing the credit limit. As               
J D Williams has been unable to evidence having done this in this instance, I dont think that 
the checks it carried out before initially providing Ms L with account C or the subsequent limit 
increases were reasonable and proportionate.
Ordinarily, where a firm failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
providing credit or increasing the amount available to a customer, Id usually go on to 
recreate reasonable and proportionate checks in order to get an indication of what such 
checks would more likely than not have shown. 
However, Ms L says she is unable to provide us with all of the information weve asked her 
for in order to be able to assess what her circumstances were like at the time she was 
provided with this account and the subsequent limit increases. And without this information 
Im simply unable to ascertain whether proportionate checks would have prevented               
J D Williams from lending to her.
Furthermore, bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayments in relation to Ms Ls 
income and the fact that she by and large managed to make her repayments, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the repayments in themselves were demonstrably unaffordable, 
notwithstanding being unable to recreate what proportionate checks are likely to have 
shown.
Ive seen Ms Ls argument that her indebtedness elsewhere increased as a result of this 
account and the subsequent limit increases. And while I accept that credit file information 
does appear to show that Ms L did take further loans and credit elsewhere, given the 
required payments for this account I dont agree that it necessarily follows that Ms L did 
borrow further just to make the required repayments here. 
Equally, Im not persuaded that Ms Ls borrowing elsewhere in itself demonstrates that 
account C was simply unsustainable for Ms L either. So while Ive considered the arguments 
in relation to Ms Ls credit file, which I agree J D Williams is likely to have been aware of, Im 
not persuaded that this in itself demonstrates that J D Williams shouldnt have provided 
account C to begin with or the subsequent credit limit increases either.   
Overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that J D Williams has 
treated Ms L unfairly in relation to account C either. And as it has already agreed to put 
things right for accounts A and B  in the way I would ask it to in the event that I were to have 
upheld the complaint, Im satisfied that what J D Williams has already done to put things 
right for Ms L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case. And Im therefore 
not upholding Ms Ls complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what J D Williams & Company Limited has 
already done to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Ls 
case. So Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman