DRN-4108076
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr R hold with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Theyre 
unhappy that HSBC recorded data on their credit files relating to late and/or missed 
payments to their mortgage. The entries have since been removed but Mrs and Mr R say 
theyve been impacted adversely by the entries being there.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 17 May 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them 
in detail here. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Mrs and Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a 
summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs and Mr R make their mortgage payments by direct debit from an HSBC current 
account. On a number of occasions between 2017 and 2019, the direct debit was 
refused due to insufficient funds, but then collected successfully under the rebilling 
process within two weeks. As the rebilling took place in the following month, these 
payments were reported as late on Mrs and Mr Rs credit files. Then, separately, in 
early 2020 a COVID-related payment holiday was agreed; unfortunately, the first 
payment under this agreement  that for March 2020  was wrongly reported as 
missed. 
When Mrs and Mr R complained, HSBC apologised for the mistaken entry for 
March 2020, removed it, and paid Mrs and Mr R £200 compensation. It said the 
earlier entries had been justified because those payments had been made late. 
Mrs and Mr R said theyd been told the rebilling procedure wouldnt impact on their 
credit profiles. HSBC took that on face value and agreed to remove the entries as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mrs and Mr R believe HSBC should have done this much sooner 
when they first queried it. If the bank had done that, they say theyd have been able to 
renew other credit arrangements on better terms than they did. As it was theyd been 
disadvantaged by interest rates going up in the meantime.
The case was looked at by two different investigators; both thought HSBC had 
responded fairly to the complaint, Mrs and Mr R have asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the 
complaint. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their 
internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take 
either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. That includes listening to 
recordings of phone calls between Mr R and HSBC on 27 March 2017, 7 June 2022, 
and 16 June 2022. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the complaint should not be upheld. 
However, the reasons for that are a little more nuanced and detailed than those that 
have been set out up to now. Therefore, what follows is a provisional decision which 
allow both parties the opportunity to comment further before the outcome is finalised.
Ill start by saying that Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly with regard to the credit file 
entry for March 2020. It was a mistake, and when confronted with that mistake, HSBC 
apologised, removed the entry and paid what I consider to be reasonable 
compensation. I next turn to the late payment entries recorded between 2017 and 
2019. 
Its regrettable if not all call recordings have been located, but not entirely surprising, 
given the timespan covered. Nevertheless, I have to decide a complaint on the basis 
of the evidence that is available, and not the evidence that isnt. Where that evidence 
is incomplete or missing altogether, I have to decide what is most likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Also, as Mrs and Mr R are the parties making the claim that they were actively 
misled, its for them to persuade me that they were misled, not just for HSBC to 
persuade me they werent. To put it another way, for me to find in Mrs and Mr Rs 
favour on this point, their case for having been misled has to be more likely than the 
alternative, not merely equally as likely. 
Thats broadly the same test the courts use in civil disputes, and in Mrs and Mr Rs 
case, based on the available evidence, Im not satisfied the more likely test has been 
met. Theres nothing in any of the recordings that are available that would indicate 
that before 29 March 2017 (the relevance of that date will become apparent shortly) 
HSBC expressly misled Mrs and Mr R into thinking late payments wouldnt affect their 
credit files adversely. That is not to say that I doubt Mrs and Mr R are expressing their 
genuine belief in good faith, but simply that theres not enough by way of 
corroboration to persuade me that their version of events is more likely than not.
But theres more to consider. I dont just have to consider if HSBC gave Mrs and Mr R 
bad advice; I also have to consider whether it failed to give them good advice. The 
timing of their direct debit towards the end of the month means that any payment 
taken by re-billing would definitely reach the mortgage account in the next month. 
Mrs and Mr R needed to know, before deciding to let rebilling take place, that a 
payment received late would be reported as such on their credit files.
Ive seen the letters HSBC sent telling Mrs and Mr R informing them of the potential 
impact on their credit files of their payments being made late. The first of these was 
sent on 29 March 2017, after the March 2017 payment wasnt made on time. So Im 
satisfied that from 29 March 2017 onwards Mrs and Mr R were on written notice of 
the potential for adverse reporting in respect of any future occasions where a payment was missed and then caught up by re-billing. But of course that was after 
theyd decided to allow the March 2017 payment to be re-billed.
So the outcome of this case as it relates to the March 2017 payment being made late 
and reported as such, turns on the content of the phone conversation on 
27 March 2017. The reason Mr R called the bank wasnt about the mortgage directly. 
It was to ask that payment of a standing order to a personal friend be prioritised. He 
said hed be highly embarrassed if the standing order wasnt paid. 
When told this might be at the expense of directs debits, Mr R said: forget the direct 
debits. Hed put money into the current account that morning (albeit not enough to 
cover everything that was due  hence the phone call) and said the earliest hed be 
able to add more funds to the account was later in the week. 27 March 2017 was a 
Monday, so taking Mr Rs words on face value he had until Friday 31 March 2017 to 
add enough funds to pay the mortgage manually in lieu of the direct debit. He added 
later that he could maybe put £100 in on Thursday (i.e. 30 March 2017) 
I dont know if £100 would have been enough to ensure everything that was due to be 
paid would be paid, the overall context of the conversation suggests not. It seems 
likely that, in the moment and not confident of being able to pay in enough money to 
cover all the items that were due that week, Mr R attached a greater priority to paying 
his friend, to avoid embarrassment, than he did to paying his regular direct debits, 
one of which was that months mortgage payment. Its possible he would have 
thought differently if hed been told that if he opted for the March 2017 payment to be 
taken by re-billing, this would affect his and Mrs Rs credit profiles, because the 
payment would be received late and reported as such. 
I didnt hear HSBC make that clear during the call, but having listened carefully to the 
recording on two separate occasions, Im not sure I can fairly criticise HSBC for not 
doing so. As I said, the primary reason for Mr R making the call was to ensure the 
standing order to his friend was paid. The bulk of the call was taken up by the call 
handler trying to find out if this could be prioritised at the expense of other items. 
During this period, Mr R was on hold for two spells. 
The call concluded with the handler telling Mr R she couldnt be certain which items 
would or wouldnt be paid unless he added further funds (which Mr R repeated he 
couldnt do that day but might later in the week). Mr R responded to this by 
expressing his dissatisfaction, and ending the conversation abruptly. So this was a 
conversation where the call handler couldnt know which of the impending items 
might go unpaid that month, and wasnt given the chance to alert Mr R to the 
consequences that might ensue if one of the items not paid turned out to be the 
mortgage payment. 
Put all of that together and Im not persuaded HSBC actively misled Mrs and Mr R by 
telling them there would be no adverse consequences of not making sure the March 
2017 payment was made on time. Nor do I think it missed an opportunity to tell them 
there would be adverse consequences. Given that HSBC subsequently put Mrs and 
Mr B on written notice of the potential for adverse credit file reporting, that means I 
dont find that HSBC had any obligation to remove the historic late payment entries 
between 2017 and 2019. When HSBC did remove them, it was a gesture of goodwill, 
above and beyond what fair treatment required of the business.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; that 
time has now passed, and weve heard from both.HSBC accepted the provisional decision without further comment. Mrs and Mr R did not; 
Mr R spoke to our investigator to explain why, and then confirmed his reasons in an email 
dated 1 May 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be changing my decision. However, I will respond to some of Mr Rs comments in his 
email of 1 May 2023.
For the most part, Mr R hasnt said anything new that I hadnt already take into account 
when I reached my provisional conclusions. However, I note he says currently that the debt 
he owed to a friend has nothing to do with this dispute. That maybe his view presently, but it 
was very relevant at the time, because it was the specific reason Mr R called HSBC on 
27 March 2017 in the first place. So Im satisfied I was right to identify it as having a bearing 
on the outcome of the complaint. 
As the quotes I reproduced from that call in the provisional decision show, Mr R prioritised 
paying that debt over and above his and Mrs Rs direct debits for the month, which included 
the mortgage. Meanwhile, Mr R terminated the conversation before HSBCs call hander 
could talk to him about the potential harm to their credit profiles that could result if the 
mortgage direct debit wasnt paid. 
Mrs and Mr R were, however, informed in writing of the potential harm in the letter of 
29 March 2017, and in every letter HSBC sent on future occasions where the direct debit 
went unpaid. So whatever Mr R says he was told in other phone calls, Im satisfied he and 
Mrs R had been informed of the correct position in writing on every occasion a direct debit 
payment wasnt made on time.
Lastly, on HSBC eventually removing the historic adverse entries (i.e. not the one from 
March 2020 which HSBC rightly removed when first asked to) from their credit files later than 
Mrs and Mr R think it could have done, Id remind of what I said in the provisional decision. 
HSBC removed these entries as a gesture of goodwill; it didnt have to remove them at all. 
Mr R told our investigator theyre considering speaking to their solicitor. That being so, it may 
help if I say that Mrs and Mr R dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then 
neither they nor HSBC will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mrs and Mr Rs right to take legal action against HSBC 
over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of 
it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman