DRN-3140770
The complaint
Ms M has complained that UK Insurance Limited unreasonably settled another drivers claim 
against her motor insurance policy, causing her premiums to increase.
What happened
Ms M had a motor insurance policy underwritten by UKI.
On 25 September 2019, Ms Ms daughter, a named driver on the policy, was involved in a 
collision. The front of her car made contact with the rear of a third partys car and caused 
some damage. 
On 1 October 2019, the third party raised a claim through the Ministry of Justice portal. The 
claim alleged that Ms Ms daughter had failed to stop and collided with the rear of the third 
partys car  which was stationary at traffic lights  and that the impact forced the third 
partys car into the car in front.
The third party had an engineers report completed on his car on 2 October 2019. This said 
the car wasnt roadworthy and set out the repairs required. It was estimated these would 
cost around £5,600. 
UKI notified Ms M about the claim and asked to speak with her daughter. It sent several 
chaser emails between November 2019 and January 2020. Following this, and in the 
absence of contact from Ms Ms daughter, UKI informed Ms M that it would be accepting the 
third partys claim in full.
Ms M complained about this decision, and UKIs handling of her claim. She felt it had failed 
to investigate the claim properly and said that it was unfair for UKI to accept the claim, which 
would negatively impact her future premiums. She suggested the car in front could have 
been at fault and questioned why more effort wasnt made to trace the driver, witnesses or 
obtain CCTV. 
In its final response letter, UKI explained that it had a right to take over and deal with the 
claim and that Ms M (and her daughter) had a duty to cooperate with its enquiries. UKI said 
it was satisfied with the way the claim was handled and with the outcome reached.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said UKI had taken into account the engineers report and further evidence 
provided by the third party before reaching its decision. She also highlighted that it tried 
several times to speak with Ms Ms daughter. So, she felt the decision reached by UKI was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms M didnt agree. So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and will not be 
upholding Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
There have been multiple issues raised throughout the life of this complaint. I dont intend to 
comment on them all in this decision. Instead Ill focus on the issues I believe are key to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either side, 
rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it.
The claim
Ms M says UKI has acted unfairly by accepting liability and settling the third-party claim  
which she believes is exaggerated, or even fraudulent. She says this has impacted her 
premiums and means shes been unable to find a new insurer.
The general conditions section of Ms M policy explains UKIs rights and Ms Ms obligations 
with regard to claims. The relevant conditions in this section are 3b and 3c:
b. We are entitled to:
take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
c. You must give us any information and help we need.
Based on the above, its clear that UKI can decide how to settle a claim. Theres no 
requirement for UKI to ensure that Ms M, or any insured person, consents to the settlement. 
And virtually all motor insurance policies have a similar clause, so I dont find it at all 
unusual. 
Ms M has argued that theres insufficient evidence to hold her daughter at fault for the 
incident. However, its clear from the available photographs that the front of Ms Ms car 
(driven by her daughter) made contact with the rear of the third partys car. So, UKI was duty 
bound to admit liability to the other driver when that other driver made his claim. Any motor 
insurer would do the same on a rear end shunt accident. 
This is because legal liability or legal fault rests with the party that drove into the rear of 
the other car. This is in line with Rule 126 of the Highway Code, which requires drivers to 
ensure enough space is left so that they can stop safely without crashing or bumping into the 
car in front. This would be true even if the car in front had stopped abruptly.
I also note that the policy conditions require Ms M, and/or any named driver, to cooperate 
with UKIs investigations. But despite several requests and chasers, Ms Ms daughter didnt 
make herself available for an interview. This means UKI was unable to consider her version 
of events against those reported by the third-party.The third-party insurer provided an engineers report detailing the damage to the car in front, 
which is consistent with the third parties stated version of events. It also provided a medical 
report detailing injuries consistent with this type of collision. So, taking into account the 
available evidence, and without Ms Ms daughters version of events, I consider UKIs 
decision to accept liability was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
This means UKI was correct to record a fault claim on the policy, and its likely this is whats 
had an impact on Ms Ms future premiums. Its typically irrelevant how much UKI settled for, 
whats usually taken into account is there was a claim and that the policyholder (or in this 
case the named driver) was at fault. 
That said, I have seen that UKI didnt accept the full costs proposed by the third-party for the 
personal injury claim. It negotiated these costs down. So, UKI has taken action to reduce the 
amount of the settlement where it was able to.
Sharing information
Ms M is unhappy that UKI hasnt shared a copy of the engineers report the third party had 
completed on his car, or the medical evidence he supplied in support of his personal injury 
claim.
Our services usual position on information sharing is to share any information which is 
material to the outcome of a complaint. But in this case, the information Ms M is requesting 
to see contains both personal, and sensitive personal data of another individual. And UKI 
has highlighted that Ms M doesnt have the right to request this information under 
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Its not my role to make a finding on Ms Ms rights under GDPR  that would be for the 
Information Commissioners Office. But I am required to consider what is fair and 
reasonable, taking into account the law and relevant guidance.
In this case, I think UKI is trying to protect the information of the third-party driver. So, I dont 
think its treating Ms M unfairly by refusing to provide the information.
Ive considered whether this means its unfair for me to rely on the information, but I dont 
think it is. I say this because Ms M came to our service for our independent opinion. We 
have seen the information and we have provided a summary of the information we have 
relied on. So, I dont think Ms M has been unfairly disadvantaged by UKIs refusal to share 
the information.
However, as Ive stated above, if Ms M maintains her view that shes entitled to see this 
information, she may wish to approach the Information Commissioners Office and/or seek 
some independent advice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against UK Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman