DRN-4369802
The complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In March 2022 Mr E received a cold call from someone claiming to work for a company Ill 
refer to as A. The person (herein referred to as the scammer) said they could help him to 
make money from investing in cryptocurrency. They began to communicate via WhatsApp 
and on the phone, and Mr E was led to believe he could make a 20% return on the 
investment.
The broker told Mr E to download Anydesk onto his device and to open an account with an 
electronic money institution Ill refer to as W, which he did on 18 March 2022. They told him 
to transfer money from Nationwide to W, and from there, to purchase cryptocurrency through 
a cryptocurrency exchange Ill refer to as I, before loading it onto an online wallet. 
On 31 May 2022, Mr E received £404,737 from the sale of a house, which was credited to 
his Nationwide account. The scammer knew about this money and told him he could use it 
for the investment and that he would have the money back in time for a planned house 
purchase in September.
Between 18 March 2022 and 30 August 2022, he made 50 transfers to W totalling £449,206. 
The scammer sent Mr E details for an account on As trading platform, which allowed him to 
see his trades. He also received emails confirming hed purchased the cryptocurrency.
Mr E complained to Nationwide in September 2022, after he checked the trading platform 
and realised it was empty. He told Nationwide he thought A was a genuine investment 
company and that if it had done the right checks he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
payments. 
Nationwide refused to refund any of the money. It accepted Mr E had paid out a significant 
amount of money in multiple transactions in a short space of time, which was very unusual. 
But it also said the payments didnt raise concerns as they were to an external account in his 
own name. It said the payments were to an account Mr Es name, so he hadnt suffered any 
financial loss from his Nationwide account, and he would therefore need to contact W. 
Mr E complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. The representative 
said Mr E had made multiple large payments in a short space of time and Nationwide should 
have intervened to make further checks, which would have prevented his loss. They 
explained Mr E didnt know where the scammers got his number and that hed complained to 
W and received some money back. They also explained Mr E finds it difficult to discuss 
finances as he struggles with his memory. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, stating Nationwide should have 
intervened when Mr E paid £9,638 on 30 August 2022. He explained the account had a 
history of large payments in the 20 months before the scam, but on 29 August 2022, he 
moved £29,683 in 1 hours and 10 minutes, followed by £38,820 on 30 August 2022 in the 
space of eleven minutes. So, by the time he made the payment of £9,638, it was the fourth 
high value payment that day and amounted to £68,503 in less than 24 hours. Our 
investigator was satisfied this was unusual activity and that Nationwide should have 
intervened at that point.
He explained Nationwide should have contacted Mr E on 30 August 2022 to ask him 
questions about the purpose of the payments and whether anyone had told him to make the 
payments. He said there was no evidence hed been coached to lie to Nationwide, so he 
thought it was likely hed have told it that he was investing in cryptocurrency. And with this 
information, there would have been sufficient grounds for Nationwide to provide a tailored 
scam warning, which might have prevented further loss. 
W has refunded 50% of Mr Es loss from a slightly earlier point. So, our investigator 
recommended Nationwide should refund £420,024, less 50%, which was included in the 
sum hed already been refunded by W. He also explained this was a sophisticated scam and 
that Mr E believed hed get his money back in time to proceed with the sale of his house. So, 
he didnt think the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence.
Nationwide has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has said me-
to-me payments arent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and 
has suggested the onus was on W to intervene because the funds were transferred to the 
scammer from that account.
It has said the outcome is at odds with our approach to other me-to-me scam cases, where 
we have said that a payment between customers accounts didnt cause or give rise to a loss 
prior to the onward payment to the scammer. It has also said that our investigator has 
applied the same approach as me to me scam cases involving payments to cryptocurrency 
merchants, which arent regulated by the FCA. It has argued that permitting payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange has visibility that it is a cryptocurrency transaction, whereas it had 
no knowledge of the onward payments from W.
It has also argued there was a break in the chain of causation as W could still have 
prevented Mr Es loss and should be regarded as the operative cause of the loss, which is 
an established principle of causation. And it has suggested that if the case was decided in 
court, it would been entitled to seek a full contribution from W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr E says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Nationwide has said the CRM code didnt apply in 
this case because the payments were all to an account in Mr Es own name, and Im 
satisfied thats fair.
Im satisfied Mr E authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances and based on Mr Es account and the fact there 
is an FCA warning about A which post-dates the scam, Im persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Mr E didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Nationwide is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Nationwide had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part 
of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr E 
when he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an 
account, Id expect Nationwide to intervene with a view to protecting Mr E from financial 
harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Nationwides systems. Ive considered the nature 
of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr E 
normally ran his account and think they were. I accept all the payments were to a legitimate 
account Mr E held in his own name, and there would have been no indication that he 
planned to invest in cryptocurrency. I also accept there was a history of larger payments on 
the account. But on 29 August 2022 and 30 August 2022, he made seven payments to W in 
less than 24 hours, which totalled £68,503. And the payment of £9,368 on 30 August 2022 
was the fourth payment that day, bringing the cumulative spend that day to £38,820. Im 
satisfied this was very unusual activity for the account and so Nationwide ought to have 
intervened.
Nationwide should have contacted Mr E and asked him why he was making the payments. 
Based on the fact theres no evidence hed been told to lie to Nationwide, Im satisfied hed 
have explained he was moving money to W with a view to investing in cryptocurrency. Id 
then expect Nationwide to have questioned him around how he learned about the 
investment and whether there was a third party involved, and if so, how he met the third 
party. It should also have asked him whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, 
whether hed been told to download remote access software to his device and whether hed 
been advised to make an onwards payment from the cryptocurrency exchange.
With the answers to these questions, Nationwide would have been able to identify this was a 
scam and to have warned Mr E that there were red flags present which indicated this was 
probably a scam. It could have also provided advice on how to check the investment was 
genuine including checking the FCA register and looking for negative reviews on Trustpilot.Im satisfied that even though Mr E had believed the investment was genuine, hed have 
listened to a robust warning from Nationwide. He was using money that he planned to use to 
buy a house. I havent seen any evidence that he was keen to take risks with this money and 
he didnt have a history of high-risk investing, so I think that if hed had any inkling this was 
probably a scam, its likely he have changed his mind about the investment.
Because of this, I think Nationwide missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances 
when to do so might have prevented Mr Es loss, and so it should refund the money he lost 
from when Ive said it ought to have intervened (which is £420,024, less the £210,012 W has 
already refunded).
In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the points Nationwide raised in response to our 
investigators view. Firstly, it has said that there was a break in the chain of causation, so the 
onus was on W to intervene because the funds were lost from there to the scammers 
account, while the transfers from Nationwide to W didnt give rise to Mr Es loss. I accept the 
money wasnt lost directly from Mr Es Nationwide account, but Im satisfied that if it had 
identified that the pattern of spending was unusual for the account, it could have prevented 
his loss. So, even though the payment journey meant there was a later opportunity for 
another business to have done the same thing, this doesnt mean Nationwide didnt have an 
obligation to protect Mr E when he made the payments.
Nationwide has also said theres a distinction between me-to-me scam cases involving 
payments to a regulated business and those involving payments to cryptocurrency exchange 
companies, namely that, in the former, theres no visibility that the transaction involves 
cryptocurrency and that there is a risk of an onwards payment. I accept the fact Mr E was 
paying his own account meant the nature of the payment alone wasnt enough to identify he 
might be at risk, but Nationwide is required to stop payments which are suspicious or 
unusual to protect customers who might be at risk of fraud, and the fact Mr E wasnt paying a 
cryptocurrency merchant doesnt excuse it for having failed to do that. 
Finally, Nationwide has suggested it would be entitled to seek a full contribution from W if 
this matter had been decided in a court. But this decision is based on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, which may be different to what a court 
would decide.
Contributory negligence
I accept theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr E 
was to blame for the fact he didnt foresee the risk. 
In recent years instances of individuals making large amounts of money by trading in 
cryptocurrency have been highly publicised to the extent that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr E to have believed what he was told by the broker in terms of the 
returns he was told were possible.
He hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and so this was an area with which he was 
unfamiliar. He wouldnt have known the returns were unrealistic or how to check the 
information hed been given. This unfamiliarity was compounded by the sophisticated nature 
of the scam, the fact he trusted the broker and the fact he believed the trading platform was 
genuine and was reflecting the fact his investments were doing well. So, I dont think he can 
fairly be held responsible for his own loss.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should:
Refund £210,012.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Nationwide Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr E with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman