DRN-3637660
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the increasing cost of his private medical insurance with BUPA 
Insurance Limited trading as BUPA Global.
What happened
Mr F has private medical insurance with BUPA. He lives abroad and so he has a global 
policy, which he took out more than 20 years ago. Mr Fs unhappy because the increasing 
cost of his policy is becoming unaffordable. He said BUPA is treating him unfairly because 
he has no other option than to continue to pay for the policy as he has pre-existing medical 
conditions that would likely affect his ability to find the same level of cover elsewhere. 
Mr F said the increased cost is unfair because its simply too high. He also said BUPA is 
charging him significantly more than other consumers in similar circumstances and has 
provided evidence in support of that argument. Mr F alleged the reason for the increase was 
because hed made a previous complaint at the ombudsman and that BUPA took punitive 
measures against him by unfairly increasing the cost of cover. 
Hed like BUPA to offer a way for him to downgrade his global policy to one that only offers 
cover for his country of residence. Mr F also explained that BUPA didnt tell him hed been 
paying for global cover and so hes paid an enhanced price since he took the policy. 
BUPA said there are no records of what was discussed at the time of sale, given the 
passage of time thats lapsed since then. It also said the premium charged is devised of 
several factors, including age, medical inflation and geographic cost of treatment. It refuted 
any assertion that it was effectively charging Mr F because hed brought complaint to this 
service previously. BUPA also explained that it doesnt offer the type of policy Mr F 
requested, thats to say it only provides global cover (with exception to USA) and so it cannot 
reduce the cost in that way.
Our investigator said that BUPA hadnt done anything wrong. He explained there were 
elements of Mr Fs complaint he couldnt consider as they were effectively brought out of 
time, including what happened at the time the policy was sold. He said hed consider the 
issues complained about post-2015. In summary, our investigator said BUPAs 
correspondence clearly listed the policy as a global one; that the premium hed been 
charged was calculated fairly applying BUPAs underwriting criteria; and that the evidence 
Mr F provided showing the disparity between his policy cost against another wasnt 
persuasive. 
Mr F disagreed. He made several arguments in response to our investigators findings and 
made additional complaint points that didnt initially form part of his original complaint. To be 
clear, I wont be addressing those points for the same reasons already explained by our 
investigator. However, Ive distilled the arguments made by Mr F in response to our 
investigators findings that I consider material to this complaint. In summary, they are;
BUPA said Mr Fs policy is charged using the same tariff as another country (country 
B) close to where he lives. However, the evidence he provided in support of his 
complaint, shows thats not the case as Mr Fs policy is still more expensive. Mr F 
also questioned whether BUPA could offer him a domestic policy for country B 
thatd still provide cover for his country of residence as that would be cheaper for 
him;
Mr F said during a previous claim, hed managed to reduce BUPAs liability costs, 
saving it money and that BUPA should effectively pass that saving on to him by 
reducing the renewal cost by that amount;
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the same reasons already explained by our 
investigator. Put simply, Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me that BUPA has 
treated him unfairly whilst it determined the renewal costs of his medical insurance policy. Ill 
explain why.
The investigators opinion on Mr Fs complaint was comprehensive and gave clear reasons 
as to why he thought BUPA hadnt done anything wrong. Rather than repeat everything here 
I thought it best if I focus on the main arguments and address Mr Fs material arguments 
made in response. Like our investigator, Im also persuaded BUPA doesnt hold the original 
records pertaining to the sale of the policy. This happened in the late 1990s and so I 
wouldnt reasonably expect it to retain that information given it was so long ago. I should 
perhaps also say that it wouldnt be relevant to my final decision, given Im only considering 
whats happened since 2015. But I know Mr F wanted the ombudsmans comments on that 
point which is why Ive addressed it.
Having carefully considered the renewal documents and other correspondence sent to Mr F 
since 2015, including his membership certificates, Im satisfied Mr F ought reasonably to 
have known he was paying for a policy with global coverage, as opposed to a domestic one. 
I say that because BUPAs letters referred to the product as 
Lifeline Gold Worldwide Excluding USA
Mr F also said that BUPA couldve perhaps offered him a cheaper domestic policy as 
opposed to keeping him on a global one, which was likely much more expensive. I take on 
board Mr Fs comments here, but its not something Id have expected BUPA to actively 
contact him about. I say that because usually, its the consumer that decides whether the 
policy on offer is suitable to their needs, rather than an insurer. In any event, it makes little 
difference here for two reasons. The first being that BUPA doesnt offer a domestic policy for 
Mr Fs country of residence and so the only policies available to him are global policies and; 
Ive seen evidence of BUPA trying to help reduce Mr Fs renewal price by offering him a 
more tailored policy and revising levels of cover and he refused this. 
BUPA suggested Mr F could add an excess to the policy and perhaps consider adjusting the 
level of cover he currently has, but Mr F said this wouldnt be an option and that as an expat, 
he needs the higher level of cover. And so, it seems as though Mr F would like to keep the 
comprehensive cover provided by his global policy but reduce the price in a way that simply 
isnt workable for BUPA. I note BUPA said theres perhaps some possibility that it could help 
Mr F find another local provider which offers a similar policy, should Mr F want to consider 
this, then hell need to discuss this directly with BUPA. Mr Fs suggestion that BUPA should allow him access to a different policy offered to 
residents in a separate country is unfair. I understand Mr Fs rationale behind that 
suggestion, but Im not persuaded its fair because those products are intended for 
consumers domiciled in their respective countries of residence. And so, whether BUPA using 
the same charging matrix for the country he lives in as others, isnt a compelling enough 
reason for BUPA to offer Mr F access to products intended to provide cover for other parts of 
the world. Im satisfied thats a commercial decision that remains part of BUPAs operational 
remit and is most likely applied to ensure consistency for the associated cost of insurance, 
rather than to determine the structure of cover.
Mr Fs provided evidence that he believes adequately and persuasively demonstrates that 
hes being charged more for the same level of cover as someone residing in the same 
pricing area. But thats not the case. Having carefully considered the evidence, the policies 
are different. I understand Mr F doesnt think theyre different enough to warrant the disparity 
in price, but thats not for me to decide. Im persuaded they offer different levels of cover, for 
example, Mr Fs policy has a much higher limit for outpatient care than the other he 
provided. And so, because Im satisfied both policies arent identical theres nothing further I 
can add in respect of that point and for that reason, I dont uphold that complaint point either. 
I should also say that Ive seen evidence from BUPA that satisfied me that its following its 
pricing matrix and that Mr Fs increase for this year, and the last six years, is consistent with 
it. Im unable to share this information directly with Mr F as its commercially sensitive, but I 
wanted to reassure him Id considered it all the same.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman