DRN-2635707
The complaint
 Mr P has complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr P holds a motor insurance policy with UKI. After he was involved in an incident in March 
2020, he made a claim to UKI for the damage to his car.
UKI accepted Mr Ps claim and decided to write his car off. It offered Mr P £1,672 minus the 
excess on the policy to settle his claim. It said this represented the market value of his car at 
the time of the incident.
Mr P wasnt happy with this offer so complained to UKI. He said he purchased the car for 
more than that and hed spent money on fixing a number of problems with the car. He 
thought a fairer value would be between £3,000 and £4,000.
UKI disagreed. It said the most it would pay on any claim is the market value of the car at the 
time of the loss. It maintained its offer was a fair representation of the cars market value.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. He thought UKI should increase its settlement offer. He 
also didnt think it was fair UKI wrote off his car in the first place and thinks it should have 
been repaired. Mr P chose to have his car returned to him after UKI wrote it off, and hes 
complained that UKI made a deduction from the settlement because of this. Hes said hes 
since repaired and sold the car for over £3,000. Hes said this is further evidence that UKIs 
offer is unfair.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and at first didnt think it should be upheld. But 
after a further review thought UKI should increase its settlement offer to £1,950. He said this 
was a fairer representation of the market value of Mr Ps car based on the available 
evidence. He thought UKI acted in line with the policy when it wrote Mr Ps car off as the cost 
to repair it was more than the market value of the car. And he thought it was reasonable that 
UKI deduct the cost of the salvage from this settlement as Mr P chose to have his car back.
Mr P didnt agree so the case has come to me to decide. Mr P doesnt think the proposed 
increase to the settlement is enough and thinks it should be increased further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint. This decision will likely disappoint 
Mr P, so Ill explain my reasoning below.
UKIs decision to write off Mr Ps car
Mr Ps policy with UKI says when he makes a claim for damage UKI will have the option to 
either repair the damage, pay to repair the damage, replace what is lost or damaged or 
settle his claim by sending him a cheque. This means its UKI decision on whether it wants 
to repair Mr Ps car or whether it wants to write it off. As this decision is UKIs not Mr Ps it 
means at times, UKI might make a decision Mr P doesnt agree with, such as the case here.
Even though the decision on whether or not to repair Mr Ps car is ultimately UKIs, it still 
needs to make sure its decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. UKI says in the 
policy that the most it will pay on any claim is the market value of Mr Ps car at the time of 
the loss. In this case, UKI has shown that it would cost more for UKI to repair the car than 
what it thought the car to be worth. I understand Mr P has said he could have fixed and 
repaired the car for much less, and this may well be the case, but UKI has shown what it 
would have it to fix it, and its this cost that it needs to factor into its decision. So, based on 
this, Im satisfied UKIs decision to write Mr Ps car off and pay him the market value of it was 
fair and reasonable in this case.
UKIs settlement offer
As noted above, the most UKI will pay on any claim is the market value of Mr Ps car at the 
time of the loss. Ive looked to see whether or not UKIs offer of £1,672 is a fair offer based 
on the market value of Mr Ps car at the time of the loss.
UKI define market value as the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make 
and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the loss. All the factors listed in 
that definition are important, but in this case in particular, its important to note that the 
market value of Mr Ps car is to be assessed at the time of the loss. Ill explain a bit more on 
that below.
UKI has said its offer of £1,672 minus the policy excess and the salvage fee is a fair 
representation of the market value of Mr Ps car. Its said this because this is the value given 
by one of the trade guides. Mr P disagrees and has provided a number of adverts showing 
similar cars advertised for more money, and hes said he even sold this car for more money 
after repairing it. He also doesnt think UKI has factored in all the money he spent on the car 
before it was involved in the accident and has pointed out to the fact that he purchased the 
car for more than what UKI offered him.
Deciding the market value of a car isnt an exact science. As is clear from UKIs definition of 
market value, there are a number of factors to consider, all of which are likely to affect the 
value of the car. Its very difficult to find a like for like car for sale, and even then, its hard to 
say for certain that that car is being advertised for a fair price that reflects its market value.
For this reason, as a service we find the motor trade guides the most persuasive evidence 
when determining the market value of a car. These guides are based on nationwide data 
and their purpose is to provide the value of vehicles. In this case, Mr Ps car was first 
registered in 1998, so one of the guides isnt able to provide us a valuation. But two guides 
did. CAP provided a valuation of £1,672 and Cazana valued Mr Ps car at £2,228. Both these 
valuations used the mileage of Mr Ps car and took into account its make, model, age and 
specification. And both these valuations are calculated at the time of the incident in March 
2020.
Unfortunately for Mr P the amount he spent fixing the car doesnt necessarily correlate with a 
direct increase in the value of his car. These values are based on the car being in a good 
condition, which is the best possible rating. So these valuations have taken into account all 
the repairs Mr P carried out on the car between buying it and being involved in the incident. 
Had he not repaired the car, its likely it wouldnt have been classed as being in a good 
condition and would have likely been worth less as a result.I appreciate Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and throughout the time its been with 
us hes sent us adverts. Ive considered the adverts Mr P has provided. And while this will be 
frustrating for Mr P, I dont find them more persuasive than the trade guides. Generally 
speaking, we dont find adverts as persuasive as the trade guides as they have a vested 
interest  that is they are the amount the seller wants to receive for the car. And importantly 
in this case most of the adverts provided are for cars listed for sale after the incident, and in 
some cases quite some time after. 
As mentioned, the trade guides use nationwide data to value vehicles, and they do so at the 
time of loss. Usually the older a car gets, the less its worth. But unfortunately for Mr P, in 
this case, since the incident, it looks like his car has increased in value. Which may go some 
way to explaining that Mr P sold this car for more than UKI offered him to settle his claim. If 
Mr P were to have been involved in the incident last month for example, Cazana would have 
valued his car roughly £1,000 more than it would have valued Mr Ps car when it was 
involved in the incident in March 2020. I can see how this would seem unfair to Mr P. But as 
mentioned above, UKI says the most it will pay is the market value at the time of the loss.
I agree with our investigator that UKIs initial offer is too low. Our approach is to offer a value 
in line with the range provided by the trade guides. But in this case, UKI only used one 
guide. And taking into account both the guides, which as Ive explained are what I find to be 
the most persuasive evidence, I think UKI should increase its offer to £1,950  the average 
of the two - as this would represent a fairer market value in the circumstances of this case.
UKIs deduction from the settlement offer for salvage
In Mr Ps policy with UKI, UKI says that if it decides to settle his claim by paying him the 
market value of his car, his car then becomes its property. We generally consider this a fair 
term as the insurer is then responsible for disposing of the salvage in a responsible way and 
ensuring cars that shouldnt be on the road remain that way. But if a consumer asks to keep 
the salvage of the car, depending on how bad the damage is, we think its fair that the car is 
returned to the consumer.
If the car isnt returned to the consumer, what normally happens is that the insurer will sell 
the salvage on to an agent, so itll likely get some money back for the car after paying the 
consumer its market value. Where the car is returned to the consumer, it wont be able to 
recover that cost from its agent. We dont consider it fair for an insurer to lose out because a 
consumer chooses to keep their car, so we consider it fair to pass the cost it would have got 
from its salvage agent on to the consumer where the consumer choses to keep their car 
after the insurer has written it off.
Based on this Im satisfied UKI can deduct an amount for salvage from the settlement of 
Mr Ps claim. In this case, the actual amount isnt in dispute, but Ive looked to see if the 
amount is fair. Heres its deducted £201 for the salvage, which represents roughly 12% of 
the cars market value. I dont think this is an unreasonable amount.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. To put things right I 
require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr P and additional £278 which represents the difference between UKIs initial 
offer of £1,672 and the £19,95 Im satisfied is fair.
Pay Mr P 8% simple interest on this £278. Interest should be calculated from the date 
of the initial settlement of his claim to the date this £278 is paid to Mr P.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman