DRN-3254745
Complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly reduced his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that while HSBC was entitled to 
reduce Mr S overdraft limit, it ought to have realised this was necessary in September 2016. 
HSBC didnt agree in full and as Mr S didnt accept its alternative offer of settlement the case 
was passed to an ombudsman to review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I want to start by saying that while I appreciate Mr S is unhappy with HSBCs decision to his 
overdraft limit and this is what prompted his complaint, a lender is required to monitor how 
an overdraft facility is used. And not only is a lender entitled to take corrective action in the 
event an overdraft limit appears to be unsustainable for a customer, it is required to do so. 
So if HSBC did believe an overdraft limit of £5,000.00 was unsuitable for Mr S  and the 
heavily overdrawn balance for an extended period may have led it to reach this conclusion   
Id say it correctly identified a problem in relation to Mr S overdraft usage. And taking 
corrective action in these circumstances, to prevent financial difficulty and unsustainable 
debt, was in line with HSBCs regulatory obligations and good industry practice.
That said having looked at Mr S account management and conduct, I do think HSBC ought 
to have taken such action sooner. And I think HSBC acted unfairly when it continued adding 
interest and associated fees and charges to Mr S overdraft from September 2016. By this 
point, it was evident Mr S was already struggling. A cursory look at his statements leading up 
to this period shows that hed been regularly exceeded his existing limit and he hadnt been 
remotely close to seeing a credit balance on his account for an extended period either. 
Indeed given Mr Hs salary and the amount hed been consistently overdrawn by, I cant see 
how HSBC could reasonably have believed there was a reasonable prospect of Mr S 
breaking the cycle he found himself in without some kind of support to do so. 
So at this point, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr S was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mr S with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility. All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mr S 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had 
become unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms.
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr S lost out because of what HSBC 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr S
I think that it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to put things right for Mr S by:
Reworking Mr Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made 
HSBC should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr S is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a suitable 
agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ss credit file, it should reflect what wouldve been recorded if it had started 
the process of taking corrective action in September 2016. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr S overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Ss overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it wishes to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman