DRN-2474164
The complaint
Mr Q has complained that an Appointed Representative of TenetConnect Limited was at 
fault when the non-protected rights part of his personal pension was incorrectly transferred 
to another pension plan without his knowledge or agreement.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Q received retirement planning advice from an Appointed Representative of 
TenetConnect Limited (for ease I will refer to them as TenetConnect). Its recommendation 
was to transfer the protected rights (PR) part of a personal pension plan (PPP) from a 
pension I will refer to as with Provider 1, to a pension with another provider (Provider 2). 
It advised against transferring the non-protected rights part of the pension as it had a 
valuable guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) attached to it. TenetConnect also recommended a 
defined contribution occupational pension scheme (OPS) with Provider 1 be transferred to 
Provider 2. 
TenetConnect obtained a transfer information pack from Provider 1 dated 3 June 2016. This 
said the transfer value of the PPP was:
Protected Rights £89,063 
Non-Protected Rights £24,345 
Total £113,408 
A suitability report was sent to Mr Q several months later. It was dated 9 May 2017. This 
said the transfer values of the PPP and OPS at that time were:
Protected Rights £101,851 
Non-Protected Rights £26,256 
Total £128,107 
OPS £144,361.68 
On 4 September 2017 Mr Q signed Provider 1s transfer discharge forms. The form for the 
PPP referred to Plan Number AF****** and said: 
I authorise [Provider 1] to transfer the sum of £113,408.00 not guaranteed to.
The adviser signed the discharge form confirming he had witnessed Mr Qs signature. A box 
was also ticked stating that the adviser was dealing with the pension transfer on Mr Qs 
behalf. 
The following day, on 5 September 2017, Provider 2 sent an information pack, addressed to 
Mr Q, which quoted the estimated transfer values of the two plans, but referring to the OPS 
and PPP values the wrong way around.  
Plan Number POE********* £102,895.00
Plan Number AF****** £144,361.68
Two weeks later, on 19 September 2017, Provider 1 wrote a letter addressed to Mr Q 
confirming that it had received his transfer request. It said; Because the transfer has been 
initiated by your new provider, you may not have received our transfer information pack, 
detailing the transfer value, your existing product benefits and any transfer charges. and 
quoted the following transfer values for the PPP:
Protected Rights £113,865 
Non-Protected Rights £26,678.47 
Total £140,543.47 
The following day, on 20 September 2017, Provider 1 wrote to Mr Q. It sent a copy of the 
letter to his adviser. The letter confirmed that the transfer of plan number AF****** had 
completed for a total of £140,543.47. The letter said; This represents an amount of 
£26,678.47 for non-protected rights, and £113,865.00 for former protected rights. 
The next day there was an e-mail exchange between the adviser and Mr Q:
Adviser to Mr Q; [Provider 1] have today transferred the funds for one of your pensions to 
[Provider 2]. The other is in process but somehow they have an incorrect date of birth on 
their system for you. 
Mr Q to adviser; thanks - wasn't the original personal pension plan staying with [Provider 
1]? 
Adviser to Mr Q; Yes, the element with guarantee is staying, but the element without the 
guarantee is being transferred. 
On 26 October 2017 the transfer of the OPS also completed. 
In May 2019 Mr Q complained to TenetConnect that he had lost a valuable GAR because 
the non-protected rights element of his PPP shouldnt have been transferred. TenetConnect 
said the adviser had completed the transfer correctly, and the fault was down to one of the 
pension providers  Provider 1 or 2. 
Mr Q referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
He thought that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he thought the adviser had 
been informed that the transfer wasnt in accordance with what had been agreed, but hadnt 
taken any action to rectify the matter. He thought the adviser had failed to exercise his duty 
in accordance with the terms of service agreed with Mr Q. 
The investigator said that TenetConnect had a responsibility to correctly set up or register 
the new pension Mr Q was transferring to, and ensure the agreed transfer was completed 
correctly.  He said although Provider 2 had mixed up the plan references in its information 
pack this wasnt material, as the transfer values had been changing over time and so werent 
a reliable means of identifying which funds were to be transferred. The investigator said he 
hadnt been provided with any evidence showing TenetConnect had provided any clearer 
instructions specifying which funds were to be transferred to Provider 2. 
TenetConnect disagreed with the investigators findings, so the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that TenetConnects advice had been not to transfer the non-protected 
rights part of the personal pension, and both parties were agreed on that recommendation. 
The transfer of the non-protected rights pension wasnt intended; it was transferred in error.
The Transfer Discharge form was signed by the adviser to confirm he had witnessed Mr Qs 
signature. This form referred to the amount to be transferred as £113,408. This appears to 
be the value TenetConnect had obtained from Provider 1 in the transfer information pack 
dated 3 June 2016  which included both protected and non-protected rights. The form 
referred to plan number AF******. This plan number included both protected and non-
protected rights. There wasnt any reference to only the protected rights being transferred. 
The discharge form also said that the transfer value wasnt guaranteed, would be re-
calculated when the transfer was made, and could be higher or lower than the amount stated 
in the form. 
My understanding is that Provider 2s online application form was completed, and Provider 2 
has said its letter to Mr Q dated 5 September 2017 was generated reflecting the information 
that had been provided. The letter had the personal pension and OPS transfer values the 
wrong way around. However, like the investigator, I dont think this was material to the non-
protected rights part of AF***** being wrongly transferred; it wasnt the cause of the error. 
Provider 1 and Provider 2 acted on the instructions they had been given  to transfer plan 
number AF******. Ive seen no evidence that they were instructed only to transfer the 
protected rights part of the pension (or not transfer the non-protected rights parts of plan 
AF******). 
The application process was effectively overseen by the adviser, which is consistent with the 
agreement with Mr Q. I think it would have been reasonable for the adviser to have realised 
that care needed to be taken with the transaction given that only part of AF****** was to be 
transferred. Like the investigator, I dont think it was reasonable to rely on the transfer values 
alone given they were subject to change.
However, irrespective of all of this, TenetConnect was sent a copy of Provider 1s letter to Mr 
Q dated 20 September 2017. This clearly said, referring to Plan Number AF******, that the 
total transferred of £140,543 represented an amount of £26,678.47 for non-protected 
rights, and £113,865.00 for former protected rights. 
I think this in itself should have alerted the adviser a mistake had been made. However, the 
following day during an exchange of e-mails with the adviser about the transfer Mr Q queried 
what had been transferred. And the adviser confirmed, Yes, the element with guarantee is 
staying, but the element without the guarantee is being transferred. 
I think the potential for both the protected and non-protected parts of the pension to be 
transferred by mistake was reasonably foreseeable given the Providers were told to transfer 
AF******, and this was made up of two parts. The adviser was overseeing the transfer, and in 
my view didnt take reasonable care to ensure it was completed as intended. However, in 
any event, the adviser had an opportunity to rectify the position when Provider 1 clearly said 
both the protected and non-protected rights had been transferred. I think the adviser ought 
reasonably to have been alerted that the non-protected rights element had been incorrectly 
transferred, and should have acted on that information. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to find that 
TenetConnect was responsible for any losses resulting from the incorrect transfer of the non-
protected rights part of the pension, and loss of the associated GAR.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr Q as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in had the non-protected rights part of the pension 
not been transferred. But for the error, Mr Q would still have been invested in the same fund 
hed been invested with Provider 1. 
What should TennetConnect Limited do?
To compensate Mr Q fairly TenetConnect Limited should:
1. Compare the actual value of the non-protected rights part of the transfer value that 
was transferred to Provider 2, with the notional value that it would have been with 
Provider 1 had it not been transferred.
2. If a notional value cant be obtained from Provider 1, then the benchmark below 
should be used to calculate a fair value. 
3. If the notional value in 1 (or the fair value in 2) is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss, and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value (or fair value), no compensation for loss is payable.
Investment
name      Status    BenchmarkFrom
(start date)    To
(end 
date)Additional interest
The current 
fund relating to 
the Non-
protected 
rights part of 
the transferstill exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision 8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
TenetConnect Limited 
being
notified of
Mr Qs 
acceptance of
this decision
If there is a loss, this figure should then be multiplied by a ratio of GAR/CAR (current annuity 
rate), where GAR is the guaranteed annuity rate applicable at age 65, and CAR is the best 
current open market rate for an annuity arranged on the same basis for a 65 year-old.
TenetConnect Limited should pay any loss into Mr Qs pension plan, to increase its
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. TenetConnect Limited should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. TenetConnect Limited shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.If TenetConnect Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Qs pension plan it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,
it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Q's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For the purposes of calculating redress, I consider it reasonable to assume that Mr Q would 
have bought an annuity at the GAR using the entire plan value, and therefore the reduction 
should be applied to the entire redress sum if paid direct.
In addition, TenetConnect Limited should pay Mr Q £200 for the distress and worry 
Im satisfied this matter has caused him.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr Q in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TenetConnect Limited considers it 
is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr Q how much it has taken off. TenetConnect Limited should also give 
Mr Q a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Why is this benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this benchmark because I think it reflects a similar level of risk as that presented 
by the fund that Mr Q transferred from. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint.
I order TenetConnect Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr Q as I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman