DRN-4288435
The complaint
Mr I complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account without 
expanation and didnt credit his rewad points. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr I had a rewards club credt card account with Creation. The card included the ability to 
earn reward points, which could be redeemed for hotel stays or experiences. 
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr I a letter informing him that his credit card accout would be 
closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period.
Mr I complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted 
fairly in closing Mr Is account, and not crediting the points. Mr I was unhappy with Creations 
response and brought his compaint to our service.
 
After Mr I brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Is 
complaint. They offered Mr I the points not credited. Mr I didnt accept the offer as he didnt 
think the offer went far enough to put things right.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint and thought Creations offer was fair. 
Mr I disagreed. He said that Creation needed to do more and havent offered compensation 
for the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our 
service. He also wants Creation to explain why it no longer wants him as customer and 
closed his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
I understand that Mr I wants Creation to explain the reason it closed his account. it cant be 
pleasant being told you are no longer wanted as a customer. But Creation is under no 
obligation to tell Mr I the reasons behind its decision to close his account, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr I this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr I, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
I know Mr I is upset that Creation closed his account. Creation can only close accounts in 
certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Creation have 
relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Is account. Ive reviewed the terms and 
they explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Creations decision to close Mr Is account  was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr I however, 
Creation have provided Mr I with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted 
unfairly in taking the actions it did. 
withholding of points 
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Is points. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have 
deprived Mr I of access to the points, when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to 
see that they have now agreed to rectify this. I know Mr I wants more points, but I think the 
offer is fair, and puts Mr I back in the position he would have been in. So, I wont be asking 
Creation to award Mr I more points than he is entitled to, which has been calculated based 
on the spending on his account.
Mr I has said he wants additional compensation to resolve this matter. Hes pointed out that 
hes spent time and effort trying to resolve his complaint. Hes said he has waited a long time 
for things to be sorted out and had to go to the trouble of opening another credit card. Hes 
also referred to a number of other complaints made by a number of individuals about the 
same issues. 
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. Mr I has asked to be 
compensated for the time hes had to wait for his complaint to be resolved. But Id need to be 
satisfied that hes lost out by not having his points returned sooner. And on balance, I cant 
say this is the case. Therefore, I wont be awarding any further compensation.
I acknowledge Mr Is comments about other individuals who have made similar complaints 
about Creation. But I cant comment on those. This decision has focussed solely Mr Is 
complaint. And each complaint is considered on its own individual merits.
My final decision
My final decision is that if it hasnt already done so, to put things right, Creation Financial 
Services Limited  should refund Mr Is points to his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman