DRN-1734543
The complaint
Mr B complains about John Lewis Financial Services Limiteds (JLFs) decision to reject a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not persuaded here that there has been sufficient evidence of a breach of the implied 
terms of the contract that the goods should be of satisfactory quality.
I say that because I dont think either the manufacturer or the computer specialist Mr B 
obtained a report from, have suggested there is a manufacturing error or that the laptop 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Dell thought there was evidence of an impact and I think its reasonable to suggest, as the 
laptop had been working satisfactorily for several months, that any impact would have 
happened at some point after Mr B took receipt of the goods and would be due to wear and 
tear or accidental damage. 
The computer specialist has provided a detailed report. In it he has explained that in his 
opinion the cause of failure may well be excessive heat, accelerated by the fact that the 
machine, as I understand, was closed and transported with restricted opportunity for cooling 
after a period of prolonged, heavy use.
He explains that there have been less favourable comments about the cooling on these 
laptops and that heat can take a time to dissipate. But he doesnt say this is a fault. I think 
hes referring to a less favourable characteristic, but I dont think that means there was 
anything wrong with the laptop..
So, Im not persuaded that there has been evidence this laptop was faulty and I therefore 
think JLFs offer to fund a repair is reasonable. Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman