DRN-3920315
The complaint
Ms C complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly
agreed a loan for her and didnt treat her fairly when she fell into arrears.
What happened
EDL agreed a loan of £1,500 for Ms C in September 2021. The total amount owed was
£3,682 to be repaid at £153 a month over 24 months (all figures rounded).
Ms C made her first two payments and then had a direct debit payment returned. She
contacted EDL to say that she was working with a national debt charity to help her manage
her payments and asked for breathing space. I understand that Ms C hasnt made any
further payments and the loan remains outstanding.
Ms C said EDL was irresponsible to have lent to her because the loan was unaffordable.
She says that EDL didnt conduct a proper assessment process before lending to her and
she wasnt well at the time with her mental health. Ms C also says that EDL didnt treat her
fairly when she had problems meeting her repayments.
EDL didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. It said that it had conducted a proper assessment - it
asked her about her income and estimated her expenses based on national statistical
datasets; it also checked her credit file and two months bank statements. EDL found that the
loan repayments would be affordable for Ms C. EDL also said that when Ms C asked for
help, it responded by putting her account on hold for a few months to allow her time to
address her finances.
Ms C referred her complaint to us. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be
upheld. They found that EDL was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Ms C as it should
have seen from the information it had that she was having problems with her money and
wasnt likely to be able to meet her repayments without difficulty.
EDL didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to review and resolve. It came to me and I issued a provisional decision on the 
23 December 2022 explaining why I thought Ms Cs complaint should be upheld and 
proposing what should happen now to put things right for her.
I allowed time for both parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new information 
they wished me to consider. Ms C said that she would like me to consider an award for the 
distress caused by EDL pursuing the debt. I have not heard from EDL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what Ms C has said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that her complaint should succeed. I also consider 
that my proposals for putting things right are fair. Ill set out my reasons again in this final 
decision and refer to Ms Cs response where appropriate. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on 
responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such 
as EDL, need to abide by. EDL will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of 
lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will 
summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, EDL needed to check that Ms C could afford to
meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan, without having to
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for
example) and to Ms Cs circumstances. Once the agreement was in place EDL needed to
treat Ms C with forbearance and due consideration if she had problems meeting her
repayments.
Ill begin by considering what happened when Ms C missed her repayments. Ms C said that
she asked for breathing space but EDL continued to add interest and fees to her account. I
can see from the customer contact notes that Ms C emailed EDL in November 2021 to say
she couldnt meet her loan repayment. She emailed again in December to explain that she
was being supported by a national debt charity and asked for breathing space while they
helped her with her finances. It seems from the notes that EDL put her account on hold for a
time as shed requested.
Ms C told EDL in mid-January 2022 that she was in financial difficulty and had no disposable
income to meet her loan repayments and was discussing longer term solutions with the debt
charity. When the period of breathing space ended EDL sent emails to Ms C in March and
April asking her to get in touch and offering help with her payments as it hadnt had any
payment proposals from her or the charity. It seems Ms C didnt respond until EDL sent her
further information about the amount owing.
I dont think EDL treated Ms C unfairly here. Based on the information Ive seen, I cant say it
was wrong to continue to pursue the debt owing when there wasnt a repayment plan in
place and Ms C hadnt made contact. However, as I will go on to explain, I think EDL was
irresponsible to agree this loan for Ms C in the first place and shouldnt now look to recover
any interest or fees from her.
When Ms C applied for the loan, EDL carried out an affordability assessment. It recorded
Ms Cs income as £1,867 a month, comprising income and state benefits. The breakdown of
this was monthly income of £442, monthly pension payments of £430, employment support
payments of £214 paid fortnightly and monthly Personal Independence payments of £491.
Ms C gave her monthly rent as £403. EDL estimated that Ms Cs living costs were £811 and
recorded her monthly financial commitments as £245. EDL considered that this left Ms C
with £408 of disposable income to cover her loan repayments of £153 along with any other
unaccounted for expenses. EDL concluded that the loan was affordable for her.
EDL provided copies of the credit file information and the bank statements it relied on and
Ive reviewed these. Ms C had several defaults showing, the latest was from December
2020. This was a defaulted loan balance of £358, now down to £106. While this information
showed Ms C had a recent issue with one of her accounts, she did appear to be repaying
the debt. Ms C had three credit cards, each with a limit of £600, and she was up to her limiton all of them. However, I dont think any of this information alone would or should have 
caused EDL to decline to lend to her. Ms C didnt have any recent adverse information
recorded and was dealing with her older debts.
Ive concluded that the checks EDL carried out were proportionate. However, I dont think it
took full account of the information it had gathered. It seems to me on closer looking that it
was more likely than not that Ms C would struggle to repay further credit and EDL should
have seen this.
Ms C provided statements to EDL for two bank accounts, and these confirm her income
sources as mentioned above. There are other deposits coming into her accounts, and
transfers out  the statements are annotated which helps explain some transactions. I can
identify deposits into Ms Cs account from her children and transfers out to them, and
deposits from an ex-partner. While there were more deposits into her account than her
income sums listed above, she was also spending more than EDL estimated.
In its response to our investigators finding that the loan was unaffordable for Ms C, EDL said
that Ms C had large sums of money coming into her account, for example money from a
bookkeeping job, from her ex-partner and from her son. I can see from EDLs records that it
didnt include this book-keeping money in its calculations as it said these were irregular
payments. Ms C has told us that these deposits were in fact borrowed money which she
returned when she was paid, and the statements seem to support this. In either case, I think
its fair to disregard these as additional income.
EDL also excluded money Ms C received from her ex-partner in its assessment as it noted
that this money covered her daughters mobile phone account. EDL noted that Ms C
received money from her son to cover his mobile phone bill and his board. Without going into
the detail of all Ms Cs transactions to and from her children I think its reasonable to
conclude that she had some additional money via her children to cover some of their costs. I
dont think its possible at this point to estimate how much additional income this amounted
to - it seems from the bank statements that their finances were shared to some extent as
there were many transfers back and forth between them.
However, I dont think this means Ms C had extra money which could be used to meet her
loan repayments. The bank statements also show that Ms C was spending what she earned
and had direct debits returned each month as there wasnt enough money in her account at
the time. EDL pointed out in its response that there were some one-off payments for a day
trip, but most of the money Ms C spent was on living costs  bills, rent and food. I appreciate
that some of these costs were related to her children, but considering what was coming in
and going out in the round, I think there was an obvious risk that Ms C would not be able to
repay the loan without difficulty. Ive concluded that EDL treated Ms C unfairly when it 
agreed to lend to her on this occasion.
In summary, while I think the checks EDL carried out were reasonable and proportionate, I
think the information it gathered should have led it to decline this loan for Ms C as it should
have seen shed struggle to meet her repayments. I appreciate this will be disappointing for
EDL but Ive concluded that it was irresponsible to have lent to Ms C. Ive set out below the 
steps it needs to take to put things right for her.
Ms C said in response to my provisional decision that I didnt take into account the effect this 
matter has had on her mental health. Ms C explained that she has a mental health condition 
which seriously impacts on her when she is struggling to deal with things, and that it caused 
her anguish when she saw the balance on her loan account. She felt that EDL should pay 
her some compensation in recognition of this distress.I am sorry that things have been so difficult for Ms C regarding her loan. I had considered 
whether or not an additional award would be appropriate in this case. As Id said in my 
provisional decision, I didnt find that EDL had treated Ms C unfairly by continuing to pursue 
the debt owing when there wasnt a repayment plan in place and it hadnt been able to get in 
touch with her. EDL has an obligation to provide information to Ms C about her account 
including information about the amount of arrears and the balance owing and I cant say that 
it got something wrong by doing so, although I appreciate that this knowledge was upsetting 
for her. I am sorry that this will be a disappointment for Ms C but I still dont think a further 
award would be appropriate in this case. 
Putting things right
I think its fair that Ms C repays the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of this but I
dont think she should pay any interest or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have
been irresponsible given. In summary EDL should:
Cap the amount Ms C needs to repay at £1,500; and
Consider all payments, including fees, Ms C made as payments towards this capital 
amount; and
oIf Ms C has paid more than this (which I dont think is the case) then EDL 
needs to refund these overpayments to her along with 8% simple interest per 
annum* from the date of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint.  
In this case EDL needs to remove any negative information about this loan 
from Ms Cs credit file up to the point of settlement of the complaint; or
oIf Ms C has not yet repaid the capital, then EDL needs to treat Ms C fairly and 
with forbearance and due consideration regarding her outstanding capital 
balance. This may mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with her. 
Once the loan capital has been repaid, then EDL should remove any negative 
information about this loan from Ms Cs credit file.
If EDL has since sold the debt, it needs to either buy it back or liaise with the current debt 
owner to ensure Ms C isnt liable for more than the capital she borrowed.
*HMRC requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give Ms C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Ms Cs complaint about Everyday Lending
Limited trading as Everyday Loans and it now needs to take the steps outlined to put things
right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman