DRN-4248216
The complaint
Ms C has complained about how Metro Bank PLC handled her request for money back in 
relation to a transaction she made. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are known to both parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But to summarise, in November 2021 Ms C used her debit card to 
pay a merchant that Ill call D around £800 to arrange flights for her. The flights were to fly 
from the UK in June 2022 and return the same month. On 16 April 2022 the airline told Ms C 
the flight details had changed, but this wasnt going to work for her. Ms C contacted D to see 
if she could find something more suitable, but this didnt work out. So she asked for a refund 
from D, which it confirmed as received on 19 April 2022. Ms C says she was told this could 
take between two weeks and six months. 
Ms C tried her best to obtain her refund by contacting D and the airline. After six months she 
tried to contact D again but found out it had gone out of business. Ds website told Ms C to 
contact her bank so Ms C contacted Metro Bank to ask for a chargeback to be raised. Metro 
Bank said the chargeback had been raised out of time, on 2 November 2022, so there was 
nothing it could do. Ms C complained and subsequently referred it to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and also thought the chargeback had been 
brought out of time. So she didnt think Metro Bank had acted unfairly. Ms C didnt agree. 
She said she thought the clock on the failure to provide a service only started when D 
confirmed it wouldnt give a refund, and not the point where the original flights were 
rescheduled. Ms C said her contract could be satisfied by either a flight or a refund and that 
it failed when the refund didnt take place. Ms C says she took action as soon as she was 
aware of the problem. She also said she had reasonable expectation Metro Bank would 
have protected the transaction. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances here. Ms C was looking 
forward to travelling and her plans were disrupted. And to make matters worse, shes not 
received a refund from D after one was promised. Its a lot of money to lose. I cant imagine 
how she must feel. 
While Im sympathetic to the situation Ms C finds herself in, what I need to consider is 
whether Metro Bank has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Ms Cs request for 
money back. In situations like this, card issuers like Metro Bank can consider raising a 
chargeback. As Ms C paid for the flights using a debit card, I think this was the only avenue 
available to her to help try to resolve things. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a payment to be refunded in 
certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the relevant card 
scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a bank to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions are met 
and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback is 
unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant (as is the case here) wont 
always lead to a successful claim. 
Ive had a look at the relevant rules relating to credits not being processed and services not 
provided. Ive also looked at the rules relating to failed travel merchants.  
With regards to the time limit for raising a chargeback for the credit not being processed, the 
relevant part of the rules says the time limit is between 15 and 120-calendar days from the 
date on the credit documentation, or the date the service was cancelled. Ms C didnt raise 
the claim with Metro Bank within 120 days of the date she tried to cancel, or the date D told 
her it was processing the refund. So I dont think the chargeback had a prospect of success. 
Therefore, I dont consider Metro Bank acted unfairly by declining the claim on that basis. 
I can see Metro Bank declined the claim on the basis of it being for services not received, 
but I dont think thats made a difference here because I think that claim was brought out of 
time as well  120 days from the latest anticipated performance date. Neither can I see 
something in the rules relating to failed travel merchants that ought to have led to a 
successful claim for Ms C, in the circumstances of her complaint. 
While Im very sorry to hear about the situation I dont find I have the grounds to direct Metro 
Bank to take action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman