DRN-4436496
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr W bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2016. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which he 
says they werent.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
15-year loan term. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Mr W agreed with our investigators view of the complaint, but Shawbrook didnt agree. 
Shawbrook carried out an inspection of the system and says it took a meter reading from the 
date of inspection. This showed the system was overperforming in terms of power 
generation and the system was capable of being self-funding. Mr W hadnt submitted the 
bills necessary to work out what savings (if any) he had benefitted from  so unless he could 
provide evidence of loss, Shawbrook would not offer redress in line with our established 
approach to these cases. 
As the case couldnt be resolved, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 6 October 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr W accepted my findings and submitted details of his 
Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and a meter reading to enable Shawbrook to work out redress 
based on updated data. Shawbrook re-iterated its earlier comments explaining that it 
believes the system is generating well and it may be self-funding so it didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I intend to uphold this case. 
Was the system sold as self-funding? 
Mr Ws credit agreement shows his monthly loan payment is £77.95, and the total amount 
repayable under his loan agreement is £14,131. His annual loan payments amount to 
£935.40. I think the amount Mr W would have to repay was made clear to him during the 
sale. The figures in his quote are slightly different because it doesnt include a deferral 
period that was included in the actual credit agreement. But I think Mr W would have broadly 
understood how much he would need to pay from the quote, and the exact amounts were 
subsequently clearly set out on the credit agreement.  
Mr W says he was led to believe the system would be self-funding and that the benefit 
received from the system would cover the cost of the finance. The quote provided by the 
supplier formed the basis of the sale, including the meeting where this was discussed.
Theres a section headed Repayment options with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows Mr Ws 
monthly payment of £76.69. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
It does appear to suggest that the system will provide a profit of £3.98 from the first year  
with the profit increasing year on year. This corroborates Mr Ws testimony. He says he was 
told the system benefits would outweigh the cost, which is also reflected in the paperwork. 
As Ive explained above, the credit agreement shows the total loan repayments over 15-
years would amount to £14,131. The quote included a table showing the annual cumulative 
benefits of the system. By the end of year 11, (i.e. well within the term of the loan) the table 
shows the benefits would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement.
In light of this, it seems Mr W was told the system would be self-funding from the
start and would pay for itself within the loan term. I think Mr W, who isnt an expert in 
understanding solar panel generation and benefit, would be dependent on the sales advisor 
taking him through the sales documents  and he was entitled to rely on what he was being 
told and what he saw on the paperwork. And both his testimony and the paperwork suggest 
the system was represented as being self-funding. 
So overall, I think the evidence supports the conclusion that the system was sold as self-
funding. Shawbrook appears to agree that the system was sold as self-funding but says 
based on the system power generation, its likely it is self-funding (or capable of being self-
funding), so the system hasnt been misrepresented to him.  It says that unless Mr W can 
evidence from his FIT payments and pre and post installation bills that the financial benefits 
havent materialised, it will not offer compensation as he hasnt suffered a loss.  
Has Mr W suffered a loss?
Shawbrook says that its records show the system generated 24,090.2 kWh as at 18 October 
2022 (when the system was inspected). This gives an average annual generation of 
3,892.39 kWh - which is more than Mr Ws MCS estimate of 3653.87. As the system is 
generating electricity in line with the quote, (and actually slightly more than the MCS 
estimate), Shawbrook says Mr W hasnt suffered a loss. 
The generation figures Shawbrook has submitted is significantly different to that submitted 
by Mr W and that on his FIT statements which showed his system was actually producing 
slightly less than the MCS estimate. I cannot explain why the figures are so different but, in 
any event, while Ive thought about Shawbrooks comments, Im not satisfied that this is 
sufficient evidence that the system is self-funding. The actual FIT payments Mr W received 
show the system benefit (in terms of financial payments rather than power generation), are 
not in line with the quote. And Mr W has provided a reasonable explanation of why he cant 
provide any pre-installation bills.
Mr W says he cannot provide pre-installation bills as he only moved into the property a few 
months before the installation  so he cannot show what (if any savings) he has made post 
installation. But he has provided the statements from his FIT provider showing how much 
FIT benefit he has received in the years following the installation. This shows he received 
FIT payments of £114.02 in the first year following the installation against the first year 
estimated FIT benefit of £247. In the second year, his FIT payments were also only £190. 
As we do not have bills, Ive looked at the savings estimated by the supplier at the time of 
sale. The electricity savings estimate was £426.68 and the savings from the optional extras 
was £293.76. If we assume the system savings are in line with the quote, this gives a total 
first year benefit received of £834.46. But the annual payments on the loan are £935.40. So, 
the system wasnt self-funding from the start as estimated by the supplier. 
I understand there may have been a delay in applying for FIT payments which may have 
resulted in Mr Ws FIT payments being less than anticipated for the first year. But the 
second-year results also show a similar result. The total annual benefit for the second year is 
£910.44 against the annual loan payments of £935.40.
Overall, while Ive considered Shawbrooks concerns carefully, I think its more likely the 
system isnt self-funding and therefore Mr W has suffered a loss. So, I think it is reasonable 
to uphold this complaint on the basis there was a misrepresentation and it likely caused 
Mr W a loss. However, when calculating the redress set out below, it is possible that no 
payment will be due to Mr W if the calculation shows that the system will be self-funding as 
set out in the quote (and as Shawbrook believes to be the case). 
Putting things right 
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar panels over a 15-year period, so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. As explained above, should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr W by way of explanation. Mr W can provide any bills (including recent ones) and updated meter reading and FIT 
statements to enable Shawbrook to work out how much compensation Mr W is entitled to (if 
any). For any periods that actual data is not available, Shawbrook can use the data it has 
and any reasonable assumptions to help it complete its calculation. 
Where no bills have been submitted, usually we ask businesses to work out savings based 
on the annual generation of the system (either actual or the MCS estimate), using a self-
consumption rate of 37%. For clarity, the self-consumption rate is the amount of electricity 
generated by the solar panels that Mr W is able to use or self-consume whilst he is in his 
home. 
Businesses can use the actual rates shown in electricity bills consumers provide, and if not 
available, they use a default starting unit price of around 15p per kWh from the start of the 
loan. Electricity prices, however, also increase over time. Therefore, the savings customers 
make (because they are no longer buying as much electricity from their provider as they 
would do without panels), also increases. 
My understanding is that Shawbrook uses the data published by the Office of National 
Statistics to track actual average electricity price increases over time. Shawbrook then 
applies the percentage increase to the default unit rate of 15p over the term of the loan, to 
estimate the savings consumers will make for any periods that actual savings data is not 
available. They also make a reasonable assumption of likely future increases and apply that 
to the rate used.
Shawbrook can use the actual FIT data submitted and for any periods FIT data isnt 
available, Shawbrook can look at the average annual generation (if available), or the MCS 
estimate and make assumptions about what Mr Ws FIT benefit is likely to be. I understand 
FIT payments do, however, also increase in line with the retail prices index (RPI) so it can 
also apply the RPI increases (as published by the Office of National Statistics) to those 
amounts to estimate a more accurate amount of the likely benefit Mr W will receive. 
As explained above, Mr W is free to submit actual bills (including recent ones), FIT 
statements and an updated meter reading to enable Shawbrook to use actual data to 
complete its assessment of loss. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, if the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Ws loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr W, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or D. the overpayments are returned to Mr W, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr W has since settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the way it handled Mr Ws claim. I intend to 
direct Shawbrook to pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr W has submitted updated data which has been sent to Shawbrook. Shawbrook has re-
iterated its earlier comments that it believes the system may be self-funding due to the 
generation figures it holds in its records. However, I have already explained why I dont think 
this is enough to persuade me that the system is self-funding. Ive also explained why Mr W 
cannot submit pre-installation bills. So, for the reasons Ive already explained, I still think its 
more likely that the system was misrepresented to Mr W, that he likely has suffered a loss 
because of this and its reasonable for the complaint to be upheld. If, however, when 
Shawbrook carries out its loss calculation, there is no payment due to Mr W, Shawbrook can 
explain this to him as set out below. 
Overall, in the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from 
my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I uphold this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar panels over a 15-year period, so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. As explained above, should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr W by way of explanation. 
Mr W can still provide any bills (including recent ones) if they are available. I understand he 
has already sent in an updated meter reading and FIT statements to enable Shawbrook to 
work out how much compensation Mr W is entitled to (if any). For any periods that actual 
data is not available, Shawbrook can use the data it has and any reasonable assumptions to 
help it complete its calculation. 
Where no bills have been submitted, usually we ask businesses to work out savings based 
on the annual generation of the system (either actual or the MCS estimate), using a self-
consumption rate of 37%. For clarity, the self-consumption rate is the amount of electricity 
generated by the solar panels that Mr W is able to use or self-consume whilst he is in his 
home. 
Businesses can use the actual rates shown in electricity bills consumers provide, and if not 
available, they use a default starting unit price of around 15p per kWh from the start of the 
loan. Electricity prices, however, also increase over time. Therefore, the savings customers make (because they are no longer buying as much electricity from their provider as they 
would do without panels), also increases. 
My understanding is that Shawbrook uses the data published by the Office of National 
Statistics to track actual average electricity price increases over time. Shawbrook then 
applies the percentage increase to the default unit rate of 15p over the term of the loan, to 
estimate the savings consumers will make for any periods that actual savings data is not 
available. They also make reasonable assumptions of likely future increases and apply that 
to the rate used.
Shawbrook can use the actual FIT data submitted and for any periods FIT data isnt 
available, Shawbrook can look at the average annual generation (if available), or the MCS 
estimate and make assumptions about what Mr Ws FIT benefit is likely to be. I understand 
FIT payments do, however, also increase in line with the retail prices index (RPI) so it can 
also apply the RPI increases (as published by the Office of National Statistics) to those 
amounts to estimate a more accurate amount of the likely benefit Mr W will receive. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, if the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Ws loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr W, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr W, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr W has since settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the way it handled Mr Ws claim. I direct 
Shawbrook to pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman