DRN-4476499
The complaint
Mr W is visually impaired and complains about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,
ignoring his request for a reasonable adjustment and breaching the Equality Act.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 27 October 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 20 November 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr W is visually impaired and complains about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,
ignoring his request for a reasonable adjustment and breaching the Equality Act.
What happened
Mr W holds several accounts with Halifax and had made them aware of his visual
impairment.
In October 2022, Mr W visited a Halifax branch to open a savings account.
Mr W says a face-to-face appointment wasnt available, so he agreed to a phone
appointment within the branch. Mr W explains that he was put through to the wrong
department and he had to wait for approximately 30 minutes to speak to a consultant. He
informed the consultant about his visual impairment and specifically requested all
correspondence to be sent to him in large font.
Despite this request, Halifax didnt adjust the font size and Mr W struggled to read the letter.
He also felt he had been given incorrect information, so he called Halifax to complain. Mr W
says the call was difficult and distressing. This is because he was transferred several times
and initially put through to the fraud department, which considering he was making a large
investment, caused him to become worried and feel vulnerable.
Halifax sent Mr W a letter apologising for giving incorrect information, poor call handling and
not making the requested correspondence adjustment. They paid Mr W £150 redress and
explained that a manual process was necessary for converting letters to large print and the
error was because their telephony team didnt have a process.
Halifax also explained that they had a disability support team and said theyve confirmed the
situation will be reviewed with our telephony team and changes will be made. But Im not
able to give you a timescale for when the change will be implemented."
Mr W was dissatisfied with this response. He complained to our service as he felt Halifax
were breaching the Equality Act (2010) and causing far too much distress for the sight
impaired for the foreseeable future. Also, he would like Halifax to implement new IT systems
to prevent this from happening in the future.
Our investigator was sympathetic however he felt Halifaxs resolution was fair and
reasonable.
As Mr W remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator and Im upholding this complaint. I
will explain how I have come to my decision.
I should first explain this service cant instruct a business or business group to alter its policy,
procedures, processes or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial
services industry. Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a
business hasnt acted fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, to decide what should
be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
So, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ws experience and fully understand his desire for Halifax to
make changes including an automatic system, Im unable to instruct them to put preventative
measures in place.
The relevant law in this matter is the Equality Act 2010. Under the Equality Act 2010,
businesses must take reasonable steps to remove barriers people face as a result of their
disability so that, as far as possible, people with disabilities receive the same service as
people who dont have a disability and are therefore not placed at a substantial
disadvantage. However, its not for this service to judge whether Halifax have breached the
Equality Act 2010, as thats an issue for the courts. But I can take into account any relevant
law and wider industry practice when deciding whether Halifax treated Mr W fairly and
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to hear that Halifax have a disability support team and guidance and that they
are working to improve services as quickly as possible; however, considering Mr Ws
experience here, I can understand his disappointment and frustration with this comment.
In this case there is no financial loss. Halifax have apologised to Mr W, accepted they made
mistakes and offered him £150 redress. So, whats left for me to decide, is whether this
amount of redress is fair and reasonable for the practical and emotional impact on Mr W.
I first considered whether Halifax representatives shouldve been aware of Mr Ws visual
impairment and if they had any guidance.
Mr W said Halifax were aware of his visual impairment. He describes a big red warning flag
that appears on a Halifax screen when he identifies himself in the branch. He also says he
made the person on the call aware of his visual impairment.
Halifax said the following:
We do have guidance for customers who have a disability. A support need is added to the
customers records once we have received a verbal agreement from that customer to record
it. Please see below the support needs that have been recorded on our system for Mr W
25/1/22 on-going  adapt  patience / understand25/1/22 on-going  large print
31/7/23 on-going  signposting
Halifax havent provided detailed information on how they support customers who have a
disability. However, based on the above, Im satisfied that Halifax representatives shouldve
been aware that Mr W was visually impaired when he presented himself at the Halifax
branch in October 2022. Also, they shouldve been ready to adapt their service and provide
support in line with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) vulnerable customer guidance.
I then checked the file to see if Halifax had considered the above when they acknowledged
their mistakes and offered redress.
The information on file suggests redress was awarded for the following three mistakes,
which includes failing to make a reasonable adjustment:
1. Giving incorrect information
2. Poor call handling including transferring Mr W to the wrong area
3. Failing to modify the letter
Regarding the poor call handling, this happened on two occasions. The first occasion was in
a Halifax branch and the second after Mr W received a letter that he struggled to read.
Although I can understand how this type of telephone mistake can happen in such a busy
bank, considering Halifax knew about Mr Ws vulnerability and had a message to adapt I
was surprised that branch representatives werent more attentive, ensuring Mr W was put
through to the correct department. By not getting things right first time, I can see they caused
Mr W, who is a vulnerable customer, both inconvenience and distress.
Also, Halifax say they have a support team, yet I cant see that this was communicated to Mr
W. Mr W describes the difficulties he had reading the letter and how this caused him to feel
distressed and vulnerable. Mr W explains that this led to him calling a general Halifax
telephone number and I can understand his comments, that he felt worried, distressed and
vulnerable, when he was put through to the fraud department by mistake. Whilst this mistake
was unfortunate and could happen to any customer, Mr W was a vulnerable customer and I
think Halifax representatives shouldve considered that Mr W may have questions when the
letter arrived or may need the support team. Furthermore, as a system isnt yet in place, I
cant see that any Halifax representatives took responsibility for ensuring Mr W would
receive a modified letter and this led to the error.
So, considering all the above, I dont think Halifax have fully considered the impact, both
practical and emotional, of their mistakes, on a vulnerable customer when they had
knowledge and some guidance to provide Mr W with a greater level of support.
Also, whilst the impact appears short-term, Im persuaded that in addition to worry, upset
and distress Halifaxs mistakes have caused Mr W to have a loss of confidence.
So, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this complaint and I require Halifax, to pay 
Mr W £350 compensation less any amounts already paid.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this
complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Mr W £350 compensation less any
amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 20 November2020.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Mr W and Halifax the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider, before I moved to a final 
decision. 
I didnt receive a response from Mr W.
Halifax said, I can confirm we have nothing further to add and will accept the proposal in the 
provisional decision. 
So, having reconsidered everything including the responses received, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision, which I adopt in full as part of this final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Mr W £350 compensation less any 
amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman