DRN-1224225
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that her reviewable Whole of Life (WOL) policy with Aviva Life Services UK 
Limited included Critical Illness Cover (CIC) she didnt want. 
What happened
Mrs D was sold the WOL policy by another provider at an initial monthly premium of £50 and 
a sum assured of £69,825. At the end of 2003 the sum assured was increased to £74,847 
and the premium to £60. The provider also added CIC to the policy at this time.
Aviva took over responsibility for administering the policy from the original provider after CIC 
had been added. When Mrs D complained to Aviva about CIC being part of her policy it 
originally stated that that any advice about the inclusion of CIC was the responsibility of the 
original provider and it wasnt responsible for this being part of the policy and that Mrs D 
needed to raise this with the original provider.
But in a final response letter sent in July 2019 it said that both it and the original provider 
admitted there was an error and this shouldnt have occurred. It offered to repay what its 
actuaries calculated was due to Mrs D as a result of the CIC being wrongly added to her 
policy. It showed the cost of CIC as from the beginning of 2004 to the date of its calculation 
in July 2019 as £9,871 but its offer to Mrs D was £7,804. It also offered to pay £1,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs D didnt agree with the offer as she thought she should receive the full cost of CIC as 
shown on the breakdown Aviva had provided. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think Mrs D was entitled to the £9,871 referred to in 
Avivas FRL. She explained this figure was the total cost of the CIC not the amount Mrs D 
had paid in premiums for this. 
The investigator said Mrs D had twice taken a break from paying premiums. She also 
explained that the figure Aviva had provided in its FRL was based on Mrs D having paid for 
CIC between January 2004 and November 2006 when Mrs D hadnt started paying for the 
CIC until after this. The investigator said she wasnt able to say the figure Aviva had 
calculated was due was incorrect. She also said the interest that had been paid in addition 
was in line with what we would award.
The investigator explained that as Mrs D had a reviewable WOL policy this meant the cost of 
providing the life cover was reviewed regularly and that was why there was an increase to 
the life cover premium on review in December 2018. The investigator also thought the 
£1,000 Aviva had offered for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs D was fair and reasonable.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said that she hadnt missed any 
payments as the investigator had said she had. She said that the three months when she 
didnt pay the premium the money was taken out of the funds available in the policy. She 
said it was black and white. She also said that the investigator hadnt made any mention of the fact she had been told her monthly payments wouldnt increase and questioned why 
Aviva reviewed her policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue in this complaint is about whether the offer made by Aviva to repay Mrs D for 
the CIC she says she didnt want as part of her policy is the right amount. But Mrs D has 
also referred to the investigator not commenting on what she had said about her monthly 
payments not increasing and her query about the policy being reviewed. I will briefly 
comment on those points first. 
Mrs Ds policy is a reviewable WOL policy and Aviva is entitled to review it in accordance 
with the terms of the policy. As is generally the case with such policies, it is reviewed initially 
after 10 years and then every five years after that up until the policyholder turning 70, after 
which reviews are yearly  as Aviva explained in its FRL of July 2019.
If Mrs D was told that her monthly payments wouldnt increase when she took out the policy 
and wasnt made aware of the reviewable nature of the policy that is something that would 
need to be taken up with the original provider who sold the policy. This isnt something Aviva 
is responsible for. What it has to do is administer the policy correctly in accordance with the 
terms of the policy.
In its FRL of July 2019 Aviva explained that the redress payable wasnt just a case of 
repaying premiums paid for CIC. It said that it is calculated by comparing what Mrs D paid 
with what she shouldve paid and that as the policy is reviewable this complicates matters 
and is also why her premium going forwards had changed. It said the calculation had been 
done by its actuaries and checked. 
I understand why Mrs D argues that Aviva has not paid her what she is owed and suggests 
that it is black and white, given its breakdown of the cost of CIC shows a total of £9,871.31  
and it has offered less than this.
But I have to make my findings and decision on a balance of probabilities  what is more 
likely than not  based on the evidence provided by the parties. In other words to uphold her 
complaint I would have to be satisfied on the evidence that it is more likely than not that what 
Aviva has offered Mrs D by way of repayment for the CIC is wrong. 
Having considered the available evidence I am not satisfied that it is. As Aviva has 
explained, to calculate what is due it has had to compare what Mrs D paid as a result of CIC 
being added with what she shouldve paid - which includes having to recalculate the 
outcome of the reviews that have taken place. 
The calculation has been carried out by its actuaries and checked. I have no reason to think 
the calculations they have carried out are wrong, and no evidence has been provided to 
show this. So I cant say it is more likely, than not, that Aviva hasnt offered Mrs D the right 
amount.  
Even if Mrs D was simply due repayment of the premium payments she has paid for the CIC 
I dont think she would be entitled to the £9,871 Aviva calculated as this is the total cost of 
the CIC from when it was added and this isn't what she has paid. Mrs D didnt pay anything for the CIC from when it was first added to the policy in January 
2004 up to November 2006. Avivas records also show that there were two periods when 
Mrs D didnt pay the premium for life and CIC - amounting to a period of around eight 
months. Taking this into account I think she has got back broadly what she has paid for the 
CIC. I acknowledge that Mrs D has said she didnt miss any payments but I have seen 
nothing to show that Avivas figures are wrong. 
Mrs D hasnt suggested that the £1,000 offered by Aviva for distress and inconvenience is 
too little, but for the record I think it is a reasonable amount and I wouldnt award more than 
this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman