DRN-3281719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their motor insurance claim 
poorly. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs Gs UK registered car was damaged whilst they were staying 
at their property in Italy. They claimed against their AXA motor insurance policy. They 
wanted the repairs to be made in Italy. In February 2021 AXA agreed to an estimate 
provided by Mr and Mrs Gs garage in Italy. In March 2021 it attempted to transfer payment 
to the garage. 
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs G complained to AXA. The garage still hadnt received payment 
from AXA. The March 2021 payment attempt had been unsuccessful. So the car still hadnt 
been repaired. Mr and Mrs G then had to make a number of calls to AXA to sort the issue 
out.    
In response AXA said it had had trouble completing the payment. It said additional details 
were required as the payment was international. It apologised for the inconvenience caused 
by its poor communications. It paid Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation. It said it still required 
further bank details from the repairer to process the payment. 
In August 2021 AXA made the payment to the garage. In October 2021 it issued a second 
complaint response. It paid Mr and Mrs G a further £250 in recognition of its poor service.
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with the £350 compensation paid in total by AXA. So they 
came to this service. They dont feel its enough to recognise the financial loss and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience AXAs responsible for. They say the impact of the 
insurers poor service includes:
causing them to have to phone AXA on a weekly basis to try to sort out the 
payment.
leaving them unable to travel long distances in the car for eight months 
because of the unrepaired door  and lack of comprehensive cover. 
distress from threats to cancel their cover and then a refusal to renew it.  
being forced to register the car in Italy because they were unable to obtain UK 
insurance  costing them around £900.
then having to leave the car in Italy  leaving them with the inconvenience of 
being without one when in the UK.   
In January 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. He said £350 wasnt enough to 
recognise the impact of AXAs poor service. So he recommended it pay a further £250. AXA 
agreed to that, but Mr and Mrs G didnt. As a result the complaint was passed to me. They 
think £5,000 would be an appropriate amount to help them get over the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced  and to fund the purchase of a car in the UK. 
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision. Its findings form part of this final decision, so 
Ive copied them in below. In it I explained why I intended to require AXA to pay 
Mr and Mrs G an additional £1,000 compensation. I also invited any further comments or 
evidence before I issued a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As this is an informal service, I havent addressed here every point or concern raised 
by Mr and Mrs G. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the most significant 
issues. But I would like to reassure them Ive considered everything they and AXA 
have provided. 
Ive looked through AXAs claim and complaint notes. Having done so, I can see it 
was responsible for a series of delays and mistakes. 
It took one month to translate the Italian repair estimate. It waited three weeks from 
its engineers acceptance of the estimate before it attempted to pay Mr and Mrs Gs 
garage. It then failed to follow the correct procedure for an international payment. It 
didnt realise that payment was unsuccessful until Mr G explained, in May 2021, the 
garage hadnt received it. 
AXA then failed to take any action to resolve the issue until July 2021. It seems a 
staff member had left without completing the task. Even then Mr G had to call and 
explain the problem a number of times before anything happened. And then AXA 
tried to explain the problem away as being caused by it not being provided with a 
SWIFT number for the garage  rather than admitting it had made a series of 
mistakes. 
Even after all that it seems AXA only made one attempt to get the information from 
the garage. It didnt chase the garage or try any other method of contact. Mr G 
eventually provided the required information in August 2021.  
If AXA had handled the claim reasonably, I think its fair to say the garage would 
have received payment, with the car being repaired, in around late January to early 
February 2021, instead of about six months later in August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs G feel AXA should pay them enough to buy a car for when they are in the 
UK. I dont think that would be reasonable. The car is now registered in Italy. 
Mr and Mrs G say this happened because of AXAs mistakes. AXA wouldnt continue 
to cover the car despite having caused such delay. They couldnt find an alternative 
insurer without registering it Italy. They havent returned the car to the UK since as 
they dont want to re-register it. Ive outlined where I think AXA made mistakes, but I cant fairly require it to buy 
Mr and Mrs G a second car. I think they could probably have found another solution if 
they didnt wish to bring the car back to the UK. They could have, for example, 
considered selling it in Italy, using the proceeds to buy one in the UK.   
According to Mr and Mrs G much of the inconvenience they experienced resulted 
from the loss of comprehensive cover after 90-days outside the UK. After that they 
seem to have had only third-party cover. They say AXAs delay was responsible for 
this. But when the damage happened the car had already been outside the UK for 
almost 90 days anyway. I wouldnt expect AXA to have agreed to their claim and paid 
for repairs within a few days. 
But Id expect AXA to have treated Mr and Mrs G with understanding considering its 
catalogue of errors had caused so much delay. Im not certain that happened having 
listened to what Mr and Mrs G say about its attitude to providing them with continued 
cover. It would seem reasonable for AXA to have extended the comprehensive 
cover. Mr and Mrs G say it instead went on to refuse to renew their policy. 
Mr and Mrs G say they couldnt drive the car any long distances whilst it was 
unrepaired. They say the door wouldnt close properly, allowing water to get in. They 
also say they didnt feel comfortable driving the car with only third-party cover - and 
then no insurance at all. 
Mr and Mrs G say they felt the impact of this particularly as it was during the 
pandemic. When restrictions were lifted, they wanted a change from staying indoors, 
but werent comfortable going for a drive with limited cover. The limited cover is one 
of the reasons they didnt drive it back to the UK. Instead they left it at their Italian 
home and paid for flights to the UK. They feel AXA is responsible for those additional 
costs  plus around £900 they spent to register the car in Italy.
Whilst there may have been a solution other than registering the car in Italy, I accept 
AXAs mistakes played its part in Mr and Mrs G deciding to take that path. So whilst I 
dont think it would be reasonable to require AXA to cover the full cost of the 
registration, a contribution would seem fair. Ive taken that into account when coming 
to an overall settlement figure. Ive also considered that being without a car in the 
UK, considering their age, has caused them a fair bit of inconvenience. 
Some of the calls Mr and Mrs G made to AXA seem to be unrelated to the payment 
problem. But I can see a number were only necessary because they were trying to 
sort out the mess caused by AXAs repeat mistakes. Making these calls, particularly 
when being required to repeat themselves, was no doubt an inconvenience and 
frustrating for them. 
So I can see AXAs poor service has caused Mr and Mrs G a great deal of distress 
and inconvenience  and perhaps some otherwise unnecessary financial costs. The 
impact of its mistakes was probably felt more acutely due to their age. Considering 
everything I intend to require AXA to pay an additional £1,000 on top of the £350 its 
already paid. That seems a fair amount to recognise the impact of its mistakes on 
Mr and Mrs G.    Both Mr and Mrs G and AXA provided further information for me to consider. Having done 
so, I wrote to both explaining I intended to reduce the additional compensation award from 
£1,000 to £400. 
I explained a significant amount of the original compensation award was based on 
Mr and Mr Gs report that AXA hadnt extended the full cover beyond the initial 90 days  
leaving them with only minimal third-party cover. I said that AXA had now provided call notes 
that show it extending the comprehensive cover a number of times and over a number of 
months.
I also said I understood AXA had refused to renew their cover. I considered that had played 
a part in Mr and Mrs Gs decision not to return their car to the UK  incurring them costs and 
a lack of transport when in London. However, the notes now provided by AXA show it 
offered to renew the policy if the car was to be returned to the UK  but Mr and Mrs G 
decided not to take up the offer.
I said overall the amount of unnecessary distress and inconvenience AXA could fairly said to 
be responsible for is significantly less than I previously understood. So I said I intended to 
require it to pay only an additional £400 compensation (making a total of £750). I also invited 
any final comments from Mr and Mrs G and AXA.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G responded to my point that AXA had offered to renew their cover if the car 
was returned to the UK  but they had decided not to. They said the car wasnt fit to 
undertake a long journey as it was damaged. They added AXA cancelled the policy 
immediately the repairs were complete, leaving them unable to return it to the UK. 
However Mr and Mrs Gs account isnt supported by AXAs call notes. These record the 
following sequence of events. In early August 2021 AXA offered to renew the cover if the car 
was returned to the UK. On the same day Mr and Mrs G declined that offer. In early 
September 2021 Mr and Mrs G confirmed the car had been repaired. They also confirmed 
they intended to register it in Italy. The policy then ran until early October 2021. 
So Im not persuaded AXA prevented Mr and Mrs G returning the car to the UK at that point. 
They could have returned it once the repairs were complete, having accepted the renewal 
offer. 
Based on the above I still feel an additional £400 compensation (making a total of £750) is a 
fair and reasonable amount to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience AXA was 
responsible for.     My final decision
For the reasons given above, AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to pay Mr and Mrs G a further 
£400 compensation (so £750 in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman