DRN-4169528
The complaint
Miss S complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline) irresponsibly 
granted her a hire purchase agreement that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In November 2021 Miss S acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline. Miss S was required to make 57 monthly repayments of £309.02 and one final 
repayment of £319.02. The total amount repayable under the agreement was £17,933.16. 
Miss S and her representative for the complaint believe Startline failed to complete adequate 
affordability checks. Miss S says that if it had it wouldve been clear that the agreement 
wasnt affordable.
Startline disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate creditworthiness assessment which 
included a full credit search, affordability tool checks, and proof Miss S had settled her 
existing hire purchase arrangements.  It said these checks showed Miss S had eight historic 
defaults but that these were being well serviced. The tools it used validated an income of 
£2,000 monthly.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They thought Startlines 
checks werent proportionate and that it acted unreasonably when approving the finance. 
Miss S agreed, but Startline disagreed. It stated that the Investigators opinion didnt give 
enough weight to the checks it did complete, and that the data available to it at the time 
didnt show any affordability concerns. It felt that Miss Ss affordability issues arose because 
of the cost of living crisis which Startline couldnt have reasonably factored into its lending 
decision. It asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ss complaint. Startline needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). In practice, what this means is that Startline needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Miss S before 
providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Miss Ss complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that       
Miss S would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Startline complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Startline was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Miss Ss ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances. 
Im not satisfied that Startline gathered a reasonable amount of information from Miss S 
about her income and expenditure prior to approving the finance. At the time of the 
application Miss S had eight defaulted accounts which she was still making repayments 
toward. Startline has also confirmed its searches had found that Miss S had at times fallen 
into arrears on two different utility accounts. Miss S had numerous loans with relatively high 
repayment amounts due each month. I understand Startline made the decision to lend on 
the basis that these accounts were being well serviced and found the risk this posed to 
itself as acceptable. But Im not satisfied enough consideration was given to the personal 
risk posed to Miss S.
Startline have stated that its checks were proportionate as it effectively replaced a similar 
hire purchase account which had been well maintained. Ive considered this point carefully, 
and Im still persuaded that the number of outstanding debts as well as the historic defaults 
on file shouldve demonstrated that Miss S was potentially struggling to maintain her current 
commitments and that further checks needed to be completed. Startlines monthly 
repayments were also over 25% higher than the previously mentioned account, which is not 
an insignificant difference.
I think this all ought to have indicated to Startline that Miss S may have been struggling 
financially and so I wouldve expected it to take further consideration of her financial situation 
before approving any lending. Whilst Startline have said it completed a satisfactory income 
check the amount it verified wouldnt have held up against an enquiry of Miss Ss regular 
expenditure (which regularly exceeded her declared income of £2,000). 
I want to be clear that Ive considered Startlines position about the number and type of 
checks that it did complete. However, Im not satisfied that these checks adequately 
gathered a proportionate amount of information as they failed to answer how much Miss S 
had left to spend after her existing commitments.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement, and the 
information in Miss Ss credit file, I think it would have been proportionate for Startline to 
have verified her specific expenditure. Without knowing what Miss Ss regular committed 
expenditure was Startline couldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable for her circumstances.
As Startline dont appear to have sought a reasonable understanding of Miss Ss committed 
expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before lending. I note that the application says Miss S declared her income as £2,000 but this did not account for what was left after her committed costs. Startline needed to do more 
in the circumstances before agreeing to lend.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
I cant say exactly what further questions or evidence Startline would have asked for had it 
sought to adequately verify Miss Ss committed expenditure. So, in the absence of anything 
else, Ive reviewed copies of Miss Ss bank statements in the three months leading up to the 
application as well as the existing credit file information that was available at the time.
I want to be clear that Im not suggesting Startline were required to check her bank 
statements specifically, but Im satisfied that these give me a good indication of what 
information it would have likely found out about her financial circumstances had it completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks.
Ive reviewed the three months of statements which show broadly the same picture of Miss 
Ss income and expenditure. And Im satisfied that her committed expenditure left little over 
for disposable income  for example in September 2021 her regular commitments (including 
loans, credit cards, rent, food, petrol, utilities, tax, insurance and childcare but excluding her 
previous hire purchase agreement) amounted to around £2720 when her account was only 
credited with around £3100 in regular income. This left only around £70 for other costs for 
the month once the proposed instalment of £309.02 is factored in. I have not included other 
regular ad hoc spending shown on her statements.
Taking this into account, its clear that if Startline had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks it would most likely have found that Miss S couldnt 
sustainably afford the hire purchase agreement. Im satisfied that it now needs to put things 
right.
Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that Startline acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Startline ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss S has already voluntarily 
terminated the agreement, having made some monthly repayments for the time she had use 
of and access to the vehicle. Given Miss S did have use of the car during the time, I think it's 
fair that she pays for that use. I dont think that the monthly repayments under the agreement 
are a fair reflection of what fair usage for the vehicle ought to be. This is because a large 
proportion of the repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage ought to be. However, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on 
the agreement, the likely use Miss S had of the car and the costs she would likely have 
incurred to stay mobile if shed never entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair 
amount Miss S should pay is £206 for each month she had use of the vehicle. This means 
Startline can only retain £3,090 for fair usage.
To put things right STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless, as seems in this case, this has already been done.
Refund all the payments Miss S made, less £3,090 for fair usage of the vehicle.
oIf Miss S has paid more than the fair usage figure, Startline should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or:
oIf Miss S has paid less than the fair usage figure, Startline should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Startline has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Miss Ss credit file regarding this agreement.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Startline to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Startline must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE 
LIMITED to put things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman