DRN-2385204
The complaint
Mr R and Mr R complain about their mortgages with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr R and Mr R own two properties which are next door to each other. Both are mortgaged to 
Halifax.
Mr R and Mr R decided to carry out building works to the properties. As well as an extension 
and general refurbishment, they knocked the two properties together by removing the party 
wall that separated them on the ground floor  creating a single open plan space spanning 
both properties.
Both properties continued to have separate titles and separate entries on the land register, 
as well as separate connections to utilities and separate registration for council tax. Legally 
they remained two separate properties, but physically had become one. Mr R and Mr R say 
they obtained full planning permission and building control sign off for the works, as well as 
the consent of their insurer.
Mr R and Mr R asked Halifax for a new interest rate product on one of the mortgages 
following the end of a fixed rate in 2019. Halifax learned of the works that had been carried 
out and refused a new interest rate. It said Mr R and Mr R had carried out major works to the 
properties which were its security without its consent. It said that by doing so they were in 
breach of the mortgage terms and conditions  and because they were in breach they were 
not entitled to new interest rates.
Mr R and Mr R complained. They said the works had been properly carried out with all the 
relevant permissions. They said the party wall could be reinstated at any time so that 
properties could be separated again, and could be sold separately. They said the works had 
increased the value of both properties. They didnt consider it fair that Halifax wouldnt agree 
to a new rate and was making them pay the higher standard variable rate (SVR).
Halifax said that the works were in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions. It said that 
Mr R and Mr R had not asked for its permission and had they done so it wouldnt have 
agreed. It said that they had in effect created one single property.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mr R and Mr R didnt agree with 
that. They said they had notified Halifax before doing the works  but the mortgage offer 
didnt say they needed to. They suggested having both properties independently valued and 
then they would agree an overpayment in return for being allowed to access new mortgage 
products.
Halifax didnt agree to this proposal. It said it had no record of ever being told about the 
works  and in any case it hadnt consented. It said it would only agree to make new interest 
rates available once the party wall had been reinstated and the property inspected to confirm 
this had been done. Or they could move their mortgage to another lender. So Mr R and Mr R 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R and Mr R are right that theres nothing in the mortgage offer about making alterations 
to the property. But the mortgage offer isnt the only important document which forms part of 
the contract between them and Halifax. The offer does say that the mortgage is also subject 
to Halifaxs terms and conditions, and Mr R and Mr R would have been given a copy of the 
terms and conditions booklet when the mortgage was taken out.
The terms and conditions say
You must get our permission before you do any of the following things relating to the 
whole of your property or any part of it.

Make any significant changes to your property that affect its structure or that add to it 
(for example, building a conservatory or a garage).
I think thats clear. Mr R and Mr R are required, under the terms of the mortgage, not just to 
notify Halifax of major works, but to get its prior consent. Mr R and Mr R say they notified 
Halifax, though it has no record of them doing so  but even if they did, they didnt get its 
consent.
Although this term doesnt specifically refer to the removal of a party wall with a neighbouring 
property, this does in my view amount to a significant change to the property. And the term 
also covers the construction of outbuildings.
I can understand why Halifax was concerned about this. It lent the mortgage on the strength 
of the security the property provided. Ultimately, that security means the ability of Halifax to 
repossess and sell the property if the mortgage isnt paid or anything else goes wrong.
Knocking a property through into the property next door significantly affects the ability of the 
property to be sold. It cant be sold unless either the other property is sold at the same time 
to a borrower who wants two properties which are partially joined together, or unless the 
party wall is reinstated. Reinstating the party wall would involve time, expense  and, 
depending on how well the initial works were done and whether, for example, the wall was 
load-bearing  possible structural issues. All this means that were it to be necessary for 
Halifax to take possession the property couldnt immediately be sold without significant delay 
and expense.
That impacts Halifaxs security. It fundamentally changes the basis on which Mr R and Mr R 
took out the mortgage. The property they offered as security when they took the mortgage 
out is not the same  and is more risky for Halifax.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to say that it wasnt 
prepared to make any changes to the mortgage until its security was reinstated to what it 
had originally agreed to. And so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman