DRN-3263872
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society
didnt let them port their mortgage product because they took a payment holiday during the
Coronavirus Pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a mortgage with Chelsea with an offset facility. In February 2020, the
outstanding balance was £265,000 with offset savings of £50,000. The mortgage had the
benefit of a fixed rate product until May 2021, with an early repayment charge (ERC)
applicable but was portable subject to conditions. In February 2021 Mr and Mrs F got an
offer on their house of £1.3m. They intended to buy another for £845,000 and wanted to port
the mortgage product. Mr and Mrs F intended to have the same mortgage with offset savings
of £465,000. Chelsea initially refused the application as it assessed Mr and Mrs Fs income
as unable to support the mortgage. So, Mr and Mrs F didnt purchase the property they had
intended buying.
But following a complaint, Chelsea shortly afterwards reviewed its decision-making process
and in its letter of 15 April 2020, agreed that if Mr and Mrs F made a further application that it
would consider, in addition to the income criteria, that Mr and Mrs F would have enough
funds to fully offset the mortgage. It apologised for not assessing Mr and Mrs Fs individual
circumstances. It also accepted some other failings in that it didnt properly inform Mr and
Mrs F as to whether Mr Fs self-employed income or pension would be considered in its
affordability assessment and didnt provide full information on the amount they could borrow.
It offered Mr and Mrs F compensation of £115.
On 30 March 2020, Mr and Mrs F applied for a payment holiday as the pandemic had
affected Mr Fs ability to work as a self-employed builder. Chelsea agreed a three-month
payment deferral on 16 April 2020. Mr and Mrs F understood that if they applied for a further
mortgage that this deferral wouldnt affect their credit rating. Mr and Mrs F then made an
offer which was accepted on another property of £845,000. This property required no work to
be done on it. Mr F contacted Chelsea about this proposal on 4 May 2020. Chelsea refused
the mortgage application as it said that by taking the mortgage holiday, it indicated that Mr
and Mrs F didnt show a willingness to use their savings to maintain the mortgage if they
werent working.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that although
Mr F had savings, it wasnt unreasonable for him to take a payment holiday as a form of
insurance as it was unclear at that time when he would be able to work again. Our
investigator felt that Chelsea should consider the application again without considering the
payment holiday but if the property was sold that Chelsea should refund the ERC.
Chelsea disagreed saying it refused the application under its policy that if a payment holiday
was in place that new lending cannot be considered. Mr and Mrs F went ahead with their
sale and this purchase. Because of the equity in the house, they were able to complete
without a mortgage on 1 September 2020 but incurred an ERC of £3,020.76. Sometime later
Mr and Mrs F obtained a mortgage on the property with another lender.
Our investigator re-considered the complaint. As the new lending guidelines came out after
the payment holiday had begun, she felt that Mr and Mrs F shouldnt be penalised as a
result. Chelsea disagreed and asked for a review.
my provisional findings
I reviewed this complaint and issued my provisional findings as follows:
All our decisions depend on the particular facts of the case and there are certainly particular
facts to this case. Mr and Mrs F were refused a mortgage initially because their income was
deemed insufficient to support the mortgage payments. After consideration, Chelsea
reversed that decision as the sale of their existing property would leave substantial money in
offset savings and looking at the situation as a whole the mortgage could be affordable.
Chelsea accepts that it should have looked at Mr and Mrs Fs financial situation more fully
and offered an amount of compensation. Chelsea told Mr and Mrs F of that in a final
response letter of 15 April 2020.
Looking at that letter I would have thought that if Mr and Mrs F submitted a similar mortgage
application to the previous one, they would have a reasonable expectation that it would have
been successful.
Mr and Mrs F applied for a new mortgage a few weeks later. I understand that the previous
property required a bit of doing up but this one only required, according to Mr F, a lick of
paint. That would indicate that Mr and Mrs F would simply have more money available than
previously and hed be able to continue working rather than renovating the property. But the
application was refused.
Mr and Mrs F had taken advantage of a payment deferral offer during the pandemic and they
understood that this would have no credit implications for them. If I look at the letter of 16
April 2020 confirming the payment holiday, which has a question and answer format, its
noticeable that it doesnt raise a question as to whether the payment holiday would be a
consideration if Mr and Mrs F applied for a loan. That would have been a relevant question
and answer for them at the time. Rather, I would have thought by saying that the credit file
wouldnt be impacted, its suggested that the payment holiday wouldnt be a consideration in
a loan application. But the payment holiday appears to be the main consideration in refusing
the loan. If this had been explained to Mr and Mrs F at the time the payment holiday was 
taken out, its reasonable to suppose that they might have refused the payment holiday in 
order to get the loan. But that doesnt appear to have been explained to Mr and Mrs F at that 
time and it would seem they were denied that option.
Chelsea took the view, expressed clearly in its final response letter, that by taking a payment
holiday Mr and Mrs F didnt show a willingness to maintain the mortgage. I dont believe that
that can be fairly imputed into Mr and Mrs Fs behaviour at that time. Mr and Mrs F like many
others were taking a payment holiday because it was being offered to them at a time of
general financial stress - not because they were unwilling to maintain the mortgage. I dont
believe that imputation was fair or that the application should have been refused on those
grounds.
Chelsea later told us that it had a policy of no new lending for a customer during a payment
holiday. The first reference I see to that is in its email to us of 23 October 2020.
Unfortunately, by that stage, Mr and Mrs F had sold the property. If that was the reason for
the refusal it would have been reasonable for Chelsea to have told Mr and Mrs F at the time
of application when they could have had the choice to end this payment holiday and so,
qualify under Chelseas new rules. But they werent told about it and so denied thatopportunity. This meant that they sold the house and bought a new one unaware that if they
had they used their savings, which they clearly had, to make the payments and cancelled
the payment holiday, that they may well have been able to port.
I have received some recent correspondence from Chelsea where they have set out the
justification for refusing the application because of Mr and Mrs Fs fall in income. I dont think
thats relevant. I say this because Chelsea refused the initial application in February 2020
because Mr Fs income was likely to fall. But it highlighted in its final response letter of 15
April 2020 that it shouldve taken into account his and Mrs Fs wider circumstances when
deciding whether to port the mortgage  in particular the amount of offset savings theyd
have. So, I dont think its fair for Chelsea to use this as a basis to refuse the application now
- particularly as Mr F had found another property that didnt need doing up so he could carry
on working.
I appreciate since the first application, Mr and Mrs F took a payment holiday. But for the
reasons Ive already explained I dont think that automatically means they were unwilling to
use their savings to meet the mortgage repayments.
For the above reasons I said that intended to uphold this complaint. As my view was that Mr 
and Mrs F were unfairly denied the opportunity to port their mortgage product, I agreed with 
our investigator that this complaint should be upheld. So, I agreed with her that the ERC 
should be repaid together with interest. But I said that our investigator didnt consider 
whether Mr and Mrs F suffered any distress or inconvenience because of Chelseas actions. 
I believed that Mr and Mrs F would have suffered a fair degree of frustration and annoyance 
and the inconvenience of finding another lender. I noted that Chelsea had already paid them 
£115 compensation, but my view was that a further £350 was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After issuing my Provisional Decision I invited submissions from Mr and Mrs F and Chelsea 
by 13 January 2022. Mr F confirmed he had no final points to make. I received no further 
submissions from Chelsea. So, I reviewed this complaint and am satisfied for the reasons 
set out above that my provisional decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. 
Putting things right
I require Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society to refund to Mr and 
Mrs F the ERC of £3,020.76 together with interest at 8% pa from 1 September 2020. If HM 
Revenue and Customs require the lender to deduct tax from this interest Chelsea must 
provide Mr and Mrs F with a certificate showing how much tax was deducted if they request 
it. I also require Chelsea to pay £350 compensation in addition to the £115 already paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Yorkshire Building Society trading as 
Chelsea Building Society to take the action referred to above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman