DRN-2660801
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car acquired with finance from Vauxhall Finance plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance. At the point of supply the car was around three years old 
and had covered mileage of 32,658.
In February 2020 Mr L experienced issues with the turbo. He reported the issue to Vauxhall 
Finance and had the car inspected by the supplying dealership who confirmed a fault. 
However, the warranty company declined to cover the cost of repairs because there was a 
discrepancy with the service history of the car.
Vauxhall Finance didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it was a separate entity to the 
warranty provider and couldnt comment on the decision to decline the repair.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the car was serviced two months later than it 
should have been, so the warranty company wasnt wrong to decline the repair. But she 
didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality because the turbo had failed much sooner than 
ought reasonably to be expected. The investigator said that Vauxhall Finance should cover 
the cost of repairs.
Vauxhall Finance didnt agree. It said that a turbo should last a lifetime but only if maintained 
correctly. It said the turbo was reliant on oil and that the late service had led to the failure of 
the turbo. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of the warranty and Ive looked at the 
service history of the car. The service history shows that the car was serviced on 21 
September 2018 at 32,658 miles, which was around two months before Mr l acquired the 
car. In order to meet the terms and conditions of the warranty, Mr L should have had the car 
serviced by 21 September 2019, or at 44,656 miles, which ever was sooner. Mr L had the 
car serviced on 22 November 2019, which was two months late. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im unable to say that the warranty company made an error when it declined to cover the 
repairs.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality. Because the car was 
supplied under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied term it is of satisfactory 
quality. Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. Satisfactory includes fitness for 
purpose, safety and durability.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first six months, its 
presumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up 
to the business to put things right. After six months the burden of proof is reversed and its 
up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Theres no dispute that there is a fault with the turbo. The issue here is whether the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
The car was around three years old when supplied with mileage of around 32,658.  The fault 
occurred in February 2020, at which point the mileage was 39,556. This means Mr L had 
covered around 6,898 miles during the 14 months hed had the car.
Its evident from my research  and its agreed by Vauxhall Finance  that a turbo can 
generally be expected to last the lifetime of a car. So I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to have to replace the turbo in a  car which was less than 5 years old and which had 
only covered around 39,000 miles. The failure of the turbo in a  car of this age and mileage 
suggests that there was an inherent fault with the turbo, meaning that it was faulty and/or not 
durable. This means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Vauxhall Finance has suggested that the turbo failed because of Mr Ls delay in servicing 
the car. Ive thought about this but given that the service was only two months late, and 
given the low mileage covered by Mr L since the last service, I dont think its likely that a late 
service was the cause of the turbo failure.
Ive also thought about whether Mr Ls driving style may have caused the turbo failure. But 
theres no evidence to suggest that Mr L drives the car hard. Even if he did drive in this 
way, I still dont think its reasonable for the turbo to fail at 39,000 miles. 
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Because theres a fault with the car, and because I dont think the car was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied, I think Vauxhall Finance should put things right by covering the cost 
of repairs.
Mr L hasnt been able to use the car sic e February 2020, so any payments hes made since 
then should be refunded. 
Its clear that the issues with the car have caused significant inconvenience to Mr L. Hes 
been without the use of a car and has had to arrange alternative transport to get to work. I 
think its fair to ask Vauxhall Finance to pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Vauxhall Finance plc must:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr L
Refund all payments made by Mr L since February 2020 plus 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upsetUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman