DRN-2832932
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued her car 
when it settled her motor insurance claim.
Mrs W is the principal policy holder. Her son, Mr W, is a named driver on the policy. 
Mr W has occasionally been involved in raising concerns with Admiral. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to his actions as being Mrs Ws.
What happened
Mrs Ws car was stolen. She claimed on her policy. Admiral settled the claim, initially valuing 
the car at £7,788. Mrs W complained that Admirals valuation was too low. She also 
complained about its service. Admiral increased its valuation by £992 and added simple 
interest to that sum. It also paid Mrs W a total of £135 to reflect the inconvenience she had 
suffered because some of its service could have been better.
Mrs W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. He thought Admiral had done enough to put things right. Mrs W didn't agree so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mrs W was unhappy with Admirals valuation of her car because it didn't take into account a 
non-standard body kit it was fitted with. Mrs W said Admiral increased her premium after she 
told it about the body kit. So she thought it wasnt fair that Admiral didn't reflect the increased 
value the body kit brought when it settled her claim. 
Mrs Ws policy says that if her car was stolen then Admiral would pay her its market value for 
a car of the same age, mileage and condition. But the policy specifically excludes cover for 
any modifications or extras which aren't fitted by the manufacturer. So, in line with the 
policys terms, when Admiral settled Mrs Ws theft claim its paid her the market value of a 
standard car, without the non-standard body kit. 
Ive seen that when Admiral responded to Mrs Ws complaint it told her that certain 
modifications to cars may cause it to increase the premium. That's because Admiral says 
cars with certain modifications increase the risk they present. And, if an insurer thinks 
modified cars are a higher risk than standard cars, it may reflect that in the premiums it 
charges. Thats something insurers are allowed to do. 
We asked Admiral to show us how the car's body kit affected the premium it charged. 
Admirals shown us some information about how it calculated Mrs Ws premium. That 
information is commercially sensitive, so I can't share it with Mrs W. But Ive looked at it 
carefully and I can see that the body kit didn't actually affect Mrs Ws premium at all. So, she 
didnt actually pay more for her policy because of the body kit.
Mrs W disputes this. She said Admiral raised her premium after she told it about the body kit. 
So I've considered the call when Mrs W initially took out the policy. Having done so its 
apparent that Mrs W made Admiral aware of the body kit from an early point. And it told her 
it wouldnt cover modifications unless those were fitted by the manufacturer. Further, Admiral 
didn't quote Mrs W one price before it was aware of the body kit and a higher price 
afterwards. So I'd don't think it did charge Mrs W a higher premium because of the body kit 
as the initial price it gave her was for a car with a body kit fitted. 
Mrs Ws premium increased, from around £647 in 2018 to £872 when it renewed in 2019. 
But its common for insurers to review their premiums at renewal. In fact its rare for a 
renewal premium to stay the same as the year before. And I haven't seen anything, beyond 
Mrs Ws comments, which indicates that the increase at renewal in 2019 was because of the 
cars body kit. So its simply not the case that Admiral charged Mrs W a higher premium 
because of the body kit. And, as it settled Mrs Ws claim in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy, I think it did so fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman