DRN-2432361
The complaint
Ms Ls complaint is about the sale of a protection policy in 2013 by Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS). She believes the policy was mis-sold as what she wanted was a policy to provide for 
funeral expenses and last until her death, whenever that happened. However, she was sold 
a policy that had a fixed term, which expires at retirement.
What happened
Details of Ms Ls circumstances and needs were documented when she met with an adviser 
from BoS in 2013. It was detailed that her objective in seeking advice was to provide for 
herself in the event of a critical illness as she didnt want to have to rely on her family or 
those important to her. She wanted to provide herself with some financial security and 
independence. Whilst the adviser calculated the amount of critical illness cover she should 
ideally have to retirement, the cost of it was significantly above Ms Ls budget. A policy 
offering £20,576 of critical illness and life cover was recommended over 12 years based on 
Ms Ls £40 budget. Policy indexation was included, so that the real value of the cover 
provided remained the same. The recommendation was accepted. It was also detailed that 
the policy was to be placed in trust, so that the money was outside Ms Ls estate and her 
children could access the money. 
Following the policy application being accepted, Ms L was sent a policy schedule giving her 
details of the policy shed taken out. Details of the indexation changes were sent to her each 
year as was an annual policy summary. Both the policy schedule and the annual policy 
summaries detailed the term of the policy as ending in 2025.
Ms L has told us that she called BoS in 2019 to question the annual statement and the 
premium increases. She was looking into potentially stopping her policy. She said she had 
told the person on the telephone shed wanted a policy that would pay out on her death, 
whenever that was, to cover funeral costs. However, shed been told at that time BoS didnt 
do them, so shed taken what was on offer. Ms L said she was told in the 2019 conversation 
BoS did do that type of policy in 2013. She subsequently complained about the advice shes 
been given.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. It set out Ms Ls recoded needs at the time of the sale and 
said it thought the policy fitted with those needs. It said it had clearly set out what the policy 
was and its term, and Ms L could have cancelled the policy if it didnt suit her needs at the 
time. Ms L wasnt satisfied with BoS response and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Ms L didnt accept our investigators conclusions. She reiterated that she had approached 
BoS intending to take out a whole of life policy, but was told it was not an option. She wasnt 
made aware that the adviser was a tied adviser and could only offer a limited portfolio of 
products; she was only told that a whole of life plan was not available. At no time was it 
suggested she look elsewhere for a policy. Ms L highlighted that she had an existing life and 
critical illness policy, which had a term ending just after her retirement  why would she take 
out another similar policy? Whilst our investigator believed the outcome was fair, Ms L did 
not. She said it was not the investigators money which had been spent on a policy that 
wasnt needed. Nor was it the investigator that had been coerced into buying an unsuitable 
policy. 
Our investigator explained to Ms L that recollections from so long ago were often unreliable 
and so we would place weight on the documentation completed at the time. The 
documentation indicated her priority was different from what she had now said in her 
complaint. The investigator questioned why, if Ms L went into BoS knowing that she wanted 
a whole of life policy, she didnt look elsewhere when she was told BoS couldnt provide it. 
Ms L said that had she been told before attending the appointment that BoS couldnt provide 
her with what she wanted, she would have looked elsewhere. However, that didnt happen 
and what was documented at the time was done on the basis of the questions asked by the 
adviser and there was evidence this information had been re-keyed afterwards with 
mistakes. Ms L said she was equally surprised to see that provision for funeral costs was not 
a priority, because this was the original purpose of the appointment. She said she didnt 
accept the quote for the first life and critical illness policy ending at 65 as this was not what 
she wanted. However, the adviser went on to offer a lower-priced product and she felt 
coerced into agreeing to buy the product. 
Ms L went on to explain that because of her personal circumstances around the time of the 
sale of the policy, it was some time before she was able to review what she was sold. She 
says she called the product provider to find out about the policy, which turned into a 
conversation about a whole of life policy. She asked if she could transfer the funds from the 
policy she was sold to a whole of life policy and was told that she couldnt. This caused her 
to complain.
BoS provided a copy of a document that Ms L would have been provided with at the time 
she met with its adviser, which made it clear that it was only able to offer products from a 
particular provider within its business group. It was also confirmed that it did offer whole of 
life policies in 2013, but those policies couldnt have critical illness cover included in it. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has said she wasnt made aware that the adviser she saw in the bank branch was a 
tied agent and could only sell products from one provider. It is a requirement that the status 
of an adviser be explained to a customer and this is usually done at the very first stage of the 
advice process. BoS has provided the documentation used. Whilst Ms L may not remember 
this part of the discussion, I think it most likely did happen. 
This case is a difficult one to decide because the documentation from the time and Ms Ls 
recollections tell very different stories. Shes said that her priority was to have life cover in 
place to provide money to pay for her funeral, whenever it was needed, so it wouldnt be a 
burden for her children. She has also explained that a close relative had recently died 
following a critical illness, which is why she wanted the life cover. 
However, the documentation from the time indicates her priority was not life cover, but rather 
to provide funds so that she could maintain her independence if she were to be diagnosed 
with a critical illness. Given what Ms L has said about the health situation of several close 
family members, that priority would also make sense in the context of her family 
circumstances.As our investigator explained, recollections from some time ago can often be unreliable. 
Ms L has said she was grieving at the time and wasnt able to go back and assess what 
shed been sold for some time, which may also have affected her recollections. That is why, 
in general, we place a significant reliance on contemporaneous documentation. In this case 
that documentation detailed a priority for critical illness cover and a budget set by Ms L. The 
policy sold to Ms L provided the cover she wanted and additional life cover  which would 
have reduced the cost of the critical illness cover she wanted. This is because combined life 
and critical illness cover is normally a cheaper option that standalone critical illness cover. 
The policy sold was based on the budget Ms L set. Looking at the documented priority from 
2013, I dont think the policy sold was unsuitable. I also note that BoS didnt sell whole of life 
policies that included critical illness cover in 2013, so if Ms L raised the possibility of whole of 
life cover to provide for her priority of critical illness cover, it would have been correct that 
BoS couldnt provide such a policy.
Ms L has questioned why she would have taken a policy for life and critical illness, with a 
term to retirement, when she already had one. The policy Ms L already had was in place to 
protect her mortgage had she died or been diagnosed with one of a number of critical 
illnesses. Had she suffered from a critical illness, whilst the mortgage would have been paid 
off, Ms L may well have had other things that would need to be paid for. For example, 
adaptations to her home to make it easier to live in or to supplement a reduction in income. 
So, the existence of a policy to protect the mortgage would not make a similar policy to 
protect a consumers lifestyle and independence unsuitable.
In addition, Ms L has questioned why the adviser recommended a policy with a premium so 
much higher than the recorded disposable income. She appears to think this means the 
adviser was acting inappropriately. It is entirely normal as part of a financial review for the 
adviser to calculate the ideal level of cover a customer should have. It would also be normal 
for a quote to be produced to establish how much that cover would cost. The fact that Ms L 
spent a notable amount of her income on discretionary outgoing, would have meant that she 
could have been willing to alter her arrangements if she wanted to. Recommending she 
provide for her recorded priority fully wasnt inappropriate and something Ms L might have 
been able to afford if shed wanted to. As it was, she only wanted to spend £40 on a policy 
and a further recommendation was made based on that amount.
Ms L has recently said she rejected the original recommendation as it was not for the type of 
product she wanted. However, she subsequently accepted a recommendation for the same 
type of policy based on her budget. Shes said she felt coerced into accepting that 
recommendation. Ms L hasnt explained how she felt coerced into taking out the policy, but if 
that were the case, she had a 14-day cooling off period once her application was accepted. 
If she didnt want the policy, as she has indicated she knew she didnt at the time of the sale, 
and had felt coerced into taking it, I would have expected her to have cancelled the policy 
when she was given that opportunity. 
I know this will disappoint Ms L, but I am not persuaded BoS sold her an unsuitable product 
based on the information it had about her priorities at the time of the sale. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 
20 January 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman