DRN-2221211
The complaint
Mrs H says Novaloans Ltd  trading as cash4unow (Nova)  irresponsibly lent to her.
  
What happened
This complaint is about 3 instalment loans Nova provided to Mrs H between                         
May and November 2019. Mrs Hs borrowing history is laid out below:
 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 31/05/2019 04/06/2019 4 £200.00 £83.23
2 23/06/2019 22/08/2019 4 £250.00 £88.45
3 19/11/2019 outstanding 6 £500.00 £160.34
At the time of writing this decision, loan 3 remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 
onwards shouldnt have been given because it looked like she wasnt managing her money. 
Nova disagreed. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nova was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Nova needed to do more when it approved loan 1. Mrs H didnt 
respond to the view. As there is no dispute about this loan, I wont be making any findings on 
it.
Nova says it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Mrs H and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns. Looking at the results, I can see the amount that Mrs H declared 
about her credit commitments doesnt match the information gathered by Nova in its credit 
checks. This ought to have prompted Nova to verify what Mrs H had declared to it. 
Had Nova carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 2, its likely to have found 
that Mrs H had more credit commitments than shed declared, and this was increasing her 
monthly outgoings. And was most likely this behaviour of indebtedness was becoming 
increasingly more difficult to sustain. I think this has been shown by the fact loan 3 remains 
outstanding. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Nova should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs H from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Novas liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Nova has sold loan 3 Nova should buy it back if Nova is able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If Nova cant buy the loan back, then Nova should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Nova should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 2, not including anything Nova has already refunded.
B) Nova should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mrs H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs H originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Nova should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 3, and treat 
any repayments made by Mrs H as though they had been repayments of the principal on this 
loan. If this results in Mrs H having made overpayments then Nova should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Nova should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 3. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mrs H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Nova 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H. Nova shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Nova has already written-off.
E) Nova should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to 
loans 2 and 3. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nova to take off tax from this interest. Nova must give Mrs H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
  
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Novaloans Ltd should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman