DRN-3795352
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118) 
irresponsibly granted her credit she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
118 118 opened a credit card account for Mrs H in August 2021. This type of credit was an 
open-ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £1,200. 
Mrs H said that 118 118 should never have allowed her to open an account because she 
was having difficulty with her finances at the time. She said it should have seen from her 
credit file that she had a county court judgement and had missed payments on her existing 
accounts for several months in a row. 
118 118 says it acted correctly in opening the account and didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
It said that when she applied for the credit card, it asked her about her income and 
expenditure and her employment, and it validated the information she provided. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that 118 118 didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit 
agreement. Mrs H didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as 118 118, need to abide by. 
118 118 will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them 
where appropriate. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, 118 118  needed to check that Mrs H could afford to 
meet her repayments out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the 
amount borrowed, for example) and to Mrs Hs circumstances.
118 118  asked Mrs H about her monthly income which she said was £3,052. She said her 
rent was £580 a month and her monthly living costs came to about £678. 118 118 checked 
Mrs Hs credit file and said this showed she spent £264 a month meeting existing debt 
payments. 118 118 estimated that Mrs H had over £1,500 a month spare. 
The regulations stated that a lender should not use the assumption of the amount necessary 
to make only the minimum payment each month and should consider the customers ability 
to repay the maximum amount of credit available under the agreement within a reasonable 
period of time. I think it was reasonable to consider that Mrs H would be able to repay this 
credit without difficulty within a reasonable period of time, given the likely repayments and 
bearing in mind what shed said about her means.
118 118 provided a copy of Mrs Hs credit file from the time. The credit record shows that 
Mrs H had debts of about £5,600. This was made up of revolving credit accounts and loans. 
Mrs H also had two defaulted accounts  one from July 2019 with a balance of £493, 
another from September 2020 with a balance of £1,684 which Mrs H was repaying at £45 a 
month. The credit record also showed that Mrs H had a county court judgement awarded 
against her in November 2018 - it was for less than £300 and had been satisfied. 
Mrs H told us that she was having problems with her money at the time and 118 118 
shouldnt have agreed to lend to her. I have thought about this point carefully. Mrs H was 
using about 75% of her exiting credit limits and there was no adverse information about 
these accounts showing on her file. The adverse information about her other accounts 
wasnt so recent or of such an amount that it should have prompted 118 118 to consider that 
Mrs H wasnt likely to be able to repay more credit without difficulty. The amount she owed 
altogether wasnt so large relative to her means that it was unlikely shed be able to repay 
this within a reasonable period of time, even including this new account. 
In summary, I dont think there was anything in the information 118 118  had about Mrs Hs 
circumstances that should have prompted it to complete further checks before lending to her. 
Ive concluded that the checks 118 118  carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate, and it didnt do anything wrong in lending to Mrs H on the basis of the 
information it had. 
Mrs H told us that she has suffered family bereavements and lost her job following difficulties 
with her health. Mrs H also said that she has just started working again, though her mental 
health is very fragile at the moment and she is unwell. I have no reason to doubt what Mrs H 
has told us about her circumstances and I am very sorry to hear of her losses and her health 
difficulties. I understand that she had problems meeting her repayments for this account and 
fell into arrears earlier this year. I would remind 118 118 of its obligations to treat Mrs H 
fairly, and with forbearance and due consideration if she is experiencing financial difficulty at 
this time.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118 118 Money and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman