DRN-2565770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited poorly administered the low-
cost whole of life with profit policies they took out in 1983 and 1987.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out two separate low-cost whole of life policies through a financial 
adviser. The policy in 1983 had an initial death sum assured of £100,000, and the second in 
1987 had a £50,000 death sum assured. Both were a combination of a decreasing term 
assurance and a whole of life assurance with bonuses. The decreasing term assurance 
elements of the plans ended in 2017 and 2019 respectively.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Aviva that the policies werent working in their best interests 
and were overly reliant on bonuses to be paid if there was a claim. Aviva provided a 
response to Mr and Mrs P in February 2019 and provided a further response in June 2019. 
In their responses Aviva provided Mr and Mrs P with an explanation how the policies worked 
and how the aim of the plan was to build up bonuses to support life cover as the decreasing 
cover reduced.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with the responses from Aviva and brought this specific 
complaint to our service. Aviva consented to us considering the complaint and one of our 
investigators looked into things for them. The investigator acknowledged that the policy 
performance may have disappointed Mr and Mrs P, but explained the bonuses on with profit 
policies like these are not guaranteed and are designed to smooth out investment returns. 
The investigator explained Aviva provided no advice relating to the policies but wrote to Mr 
and Mrs P regularly to update them on the decreasing sum assured and bonuses. And Aviva 
explained some of the economic factors that have affected the returns on the policy over the 
last 38 years. Our investigator thought there was no clear evidence that the policy and the 
performance was mis-managed.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept what our investigator said, and they asked that an ombudsman 
decides their complaint. Mr and Mrs P say that since Aviva took over the policy it feels like 
theyve little regard for the performance of the with profits fund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I apologise to Mr and Mrs P and Aviva that its taken several months for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. I understand that it will be a disappointment for Mr and Mrs P, 
but for very much the same reasons as our investigator, I wont be upholding the complaint. I 
will now explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say the policies are unsuitable for them, but Aviva didnt sell these policies. 
Instead they were sold by a financial adviser. So, any complaint about the suitability of the 
policies and what Mr and Mrs P were told about them when they took them out should be 
directed to the financial adviser. In this case the financial adviser business has closed, and 
Mr and Mrs P have been advised to contact the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
to see if they can help. 
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that Aviva didnt administer the policy as they 
should, and this has resulted in the life cover being less than anticipated at this time.
Mr and Mrs Ps policies are a combination of a with profits whole of life policy and a 
decreasing term assurance policy. They are generally an alternative to guaranteed whole of 
life plans, but the sum assured isnt guaranteed over the years. The idea behind them is that 
the with profits part of the policy grows at roughly the same rate that the decreasing term 
policy decreases, giving a relatively level amount of cover throughout.
Aviva set the premium when the policies started until the end of the term of the decreasing 
term assurance policy. In 2017 and 2019 respectively, the premiums decreased because the 
decreasing term assurance ended. In this case the with profits part hasnt grown as much as 
it was illustrated to, and as the decreasing term assurance has now ended, the sum 
assured, or life cover, isnt where Mr and Mrs P expected it to be.
Mr and Mrs P have provided me with copies of the schedules for the decreasing term 
assurance part of the policies. So, Im satisfied they were reasonably aware that this element 
of the policies ended in 2017 and 2019 respectively. Their complaint is that the with profits 
part of the policies has not grown enough to replace what was provided by the decreasing 
term assurance part. This has left Mr and Mrs P with a shortfall of life cover which they say 
has been caused by Aviva removing bonuses accrued over the years.
Aviva made it clear in the policy booklets and the review letters they sent what the amount 
guaranteed to be paid on death was, that future bonuses are at the businesses discretion 
and the growth on the with profits policy isnt guaranteed. In respect of bonuses, Ive seen 
that the original policy explained Annual bonuses come from profits from {Aviva} and are 
declared every year and are shared out amongst with profit policy holders. Bonuses are 
declared every year and once allotted; they are guaranteed additions to the value of your 
policy. Future bonus rates cannot be predicted or guaranteed as they depend on future 
profits. In the event of your death a terminal bonus may also be added to the value of the 
policy.
In Mr and Mrs Ps case Ive seen that Aviva have regularly written to them to tell them what 
the sum assured is on each policy. For example, in a letter dated 3 May 2019, Aviva told Mr 
and Mrs P that the death value of the policy taken in 1983 was £37,787.50. The letter 
explained that this figure included final bonuses that arent guaranteed, and that there is no 
guarantee what the future bonuses on the policy would be. This is in line with what the 
original policies documents told Mr and Mrs P. Of course, as Ive said earlier, I cant consider 
what Mr and Mrs P were told at the time the policies were taken out as Aviva didnt sell it to 
them.
What has happened here is that the underlying performance of the with-profits element of 
the plan hasnt been enough to fully replace the life cover provided by the decreasing term 
assurance. Aviva have kept Mr and Mrs P informed regarding the bonuses applied and the 
projected final bonuses. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P arent happy with the performance of 
the with profits fund, and the impact on the death sum assured now. However, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Aviva have administered the policies incorrectly or that theyve 
misapplied the bonuses. The with profits fund provides a smoothed investment return over 
the longer term and its overall performance is reliant on economic conditions over many 
years. Mr and Mrs P have questioned why the investment fund didnt perform well enough to 
replace the decreasing term assurance in full, but investment conditions over the time didnt 
meet expectations. Im satisfied the policies made it clear that although their aim was to use 
the growth in the with profits fund to maintain the death sum assured at the outset, there was 
never a guarantee this would happen. Ultimately this part of the policy is an investment, and 
investments can grow or reduce.
Mr and Mrs P say that the 2003 yearly statement (on the 1983 policy) told them any deficit in 
the original death benefit of the policy would be covered by the final bonus. They believe this 
was a guarantee that any shortfall in life cover after the decreasing term assurance policy 
ended would be replaced by a final bonus. Ive read the letter Mr and Mrs P referred me to in 
this regard. I dont agree that the letter says the final bonus is guaranteed to pay the 
difference. The letter says that the bonuses paid in 2003 meant little or no addition to regular 
bonuses, but it also says, there are already significant benefits guaranteed at maturityand 
any difference between the guaranteed benefits and asset share will be covered by an 
appropriate final bonus. This is essentially how the with profit fund works and explains that 
although the 2013 performance wasnt what was expected, Aviva had enough reserves, or 
profits in the fund, to meet the liability of a shortfall if a claim was made. I dont think its 
reasonable to imply from this statement that from this date the difference would be covered 
by a final bonus, as a final bonus is not guaranteed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman