DRN-3574254
The complaint
Mr P has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mis-sold him a Platinum account in April 
2014. 
Mr P paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr P says 
that he was told that he had to upgrade his account in order to improve his credit file. Mr P 
has also said that he should not have been allowed to have this account or an overdraft as 
he was in an IVA.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps complaint. They did not think that the Platinum account 
was mis-sold.
Mr P did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
I note that Mr P also believes that he should not have been given an overdraft but as we 
have already explained, this would need to be raised with TSB in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr P, but after giving this case a lot of thought, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he was hoping 
for. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand how I have come to this 
conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr P was aware the Platinum account was optional 
and whether he was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely 
than not that he was given a fair choice as to whether to take out the account. I say this 
because he had previously had a fee-free bank account with TSB. So, I think that Mr P 
wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for him.
Mr P says that prior to upgrading to the Platinum account online, he was told he would need 
to upgrade to improve his credit file. TSB does not have a record of this and I accept that it 
may have been the case that Mr P thought that having the account may help his credit file, 
but there is not enough for me to say that this was due to the actions of TSB. I also think that 
it is unlikely that he would be attempting to improve his credit file shortly after entering an  
IVA as he would not be able usually to apply for any credit while he was in the IVA. I also 
find it unlikely that Mr P thought that agreeing to the Platinum account would improve his 
credit score, given that he was a member of staff at the time. Overall, I think it more likely 
that Mr P upgraded his account online himself as he was attracted to the benefits that the 
account came with, especially as he was able to have the account at a reduced cost due to 
him being a member of staff. 
During the online upgrade process, I think that the major features and benefits of the 
account wouldve been highlighted, to make the account seem attractive to encourage 
people to opt for the fee paid account.
This account was not recommended to Mr P. This means that TSB did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mr P. But it did need to provide Mr P with enough 
information to decide this for himself. 
Again, I think its likely TSB wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came 
with, as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr P. This is 
supported by Mr P registering a handset under the mobile phone insurance policy and 
making a claim. I also can see that he used the breakdown cover and made a claim under 
the travel insurance policy too.
I accept that Mr P may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything about his circumstances at the time that makes 
me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more 
information about it. 
I note Mr Ps comments that he should not have been allowed the Platinum account while 
being in an IVA and says he should not have been allowed a debit card either. But generally 
speaking, I cant see why someone in an IVA is unable to have a packaged account or a 
debit card. Afterall, someone who is in an IVA may still require insurance products to reduce 
the risk of them incurring unexpected costs and may also need a debit card to be able to pay 
for goods and services. Also if Mr P thought this at the time, I question why he applied for 
the account himself online  bearing in mind what Ive already said above about Mr Ps 
comments that he thought the Platinum package would improve his credit score. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the Platinum account was mis-sold 
to Mr P. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require TSB to refund Mr P the account 
fees that he has been charged whilst he held the Platinum account. 
I understand that this may be frustrating to Mr P, as he strongly feels that his account was 
mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the Platinum account may not 
have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold his complaint due to this. I can 
only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman