DRN-4171748
The complaint
Ms P complains that following the transfer of her defined benefit pension into a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) provided 
incorrect information about investing her funds and this resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
Ms P had advice from an independent financial adviser on her pension and following this, 
applied to transfer her pension to a SIPP provided by FASL. She completed an application 
form for the SIPP in July 2022. FASL received the transfer-in application on 23 August 2022. 
Ms P had completed a section of the application form with six funds to be invested in.
FASL proceeded with the transfer and received the funds on 12 October 2022. Its procedure 
until that point had been to call the customer once the transfer funds were received and ask 
them to invest the funds online. In line with that, the relationship manager called Ms P and 
asked her to do this. 
When Ms P tried to make the investments there was no cash available to invest. FASLs 
process had just changed and under its new process the investment would happen 
automatically. As a result, the money had already been invested in the six funds set out in 
the application form shed signed in July 2022. 
Ms P has complained about this. She says she was confused and worried about where to 
invest, so she asked FASL to cancel the transactions, which was done. Two of the 
transactions couldnt be cancelled immediately and there was a short delay. Ms P 
complained that she suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened because when 
she was able to make the investments the price had gone up. 
FASL said Ms P had been caught up in a change of process and given unclear information. 
But it said Ms P had chosen to change the investments, and there was no loss as the value 
of the two funds which had not been reversed straight away also went up in the time before 
those transactions could be reversed. FASL offered £50 compensation for the trouble Ms P 
had been put to but she didnt accept that offer and referred her complaint to this service.  
 
Our investigator thought the way FASL had dealt with the complaint was fair and didnt 
recommend any further action. He said there had been errors and some confusion between 
the information given on 12 October and funds being transferred. But he didnt think the 
information given to Ms P on 12 October had led her to change her mind about the 
investments; she had asked to cancel the transactions because she no longer thought it was 
appropriate to invest in funds that had been chosen some months earlier and It was her 
choice to make a change.
Ms P didnt agree and made further comments. The investigator considered these but didnt 
change his view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
The additional comments from Ms P are detailed. I wont set them out in full but they include:
The investigator wrongly said FASLs process changed on 13 October 2022 but the 
new process was implemented on 12 October. So her funds should have been 
invested immediately. The relationship manager should not have called her on 12 
October and given her incorrect information.
She had given her instructions in the application form and FASL had led her to 
believe it would follow them. In the call on 12 October, she asked to confirm the 
funds had been invested; when told not, she was surprised and disappointed.
The call on 12 October influenced her choices and theres no evidence of any 
intention to change before then  it was only after this call that she changed her 
investment strategy.
The relationship manager had given her information about market volatility and led 
her to believe drip-feeding the investments over a period of time would be a good 
way to protect herself; she was influenced by this and this is what led her to change 
the investments.
If the relationship manager had not called her, the funds would have been invested in 
accordance with the original instructions. This is what should have happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transfer of Ms Ps pension happened to coincide with a change in FASLs process. 
Previously, where a lump sum of money was received FASLs process was to call the 
customer, who would then log into their account and make the investments in their chosen 
funds. Thats why the relationship manager called Ms P on 12 October. But as it happened, 
on that date the process changed, meaning the funds were automatically invested in the 
funds Ms P had selected when she completed an application form in July 2022. It's obviously 
unfortunate some confusion arose. The issue for me to decide is whether Ms P is correct to 
say she has suffered a loss as a result of FASLs actions. 
Ms P says she was surprised to be told she would have to make the investments herself; 
this led to her having to make decisions on the spur of the moment and the relationship 
managers comments caused her to change her plans  she was persuaded that she 
needed to invest differently so she asked FASL to cancel the transactions, so she could get 
the funds back and invest them in different investments. 
FASL did what it should have done under the new process and invested the money 
automatically in the funds that had been selected. Those transactions were then reversed. 
But Ms P says she only requested that because of what she was told in the call on 12 
October and if the relationship manager had not called her, the funds would have been 
invested in accordance with the original instructions. However, Ive listened to the recordings 
of the calls she had with FASL and I dont think this is what she wanted at the time. 
In the call on 12 October 2022, the relationship manager explained that Ms P needed to 
make the investment herself and said she could just buy into the funds she had selected on 
the form. Ms P asked if she could do that at any time and was told she could take her time 
and do it bit by bit or do it all at one go  it was in her control, and if she called, they could 
walk her through it or place it the transactions over the phone for her. Ms P acknowledged 
they couldnt give her advice but asked what the markets were doing. The relationship 
manager said markets had been volatile and thats why she might want to drip feed the 
transactions, to take advantage of any market changes. In a call on 13 October 2022, the call handler told Ms P the funds had been invested as per 
the original selection and asked if thats what she wanted. Ms P replied, No I didnt want 
that at all. She explained that when she completed the form she had to say what she was 
going to invest in and so had given those funds, but now is not the time to be buying 
anything in those and it was a good thing that you werent going to do it for me because 
they all gone horribly down. She said she needed to scrap everything that had been done; it 
was not what her understanding was from her previous call. She was going to invest in funds 
that she had been researching. 
Ms P also said she had never sent an instruction; she had asked for an illustration, for 
purposes of financial advice, but never instructed anything  it would be madness to deem 
that an instruction. She thought it would be her who would decide which money went where; 
she needed to able to invest when she wanted to. Ms P was on speaker phone during one 
call, with her husband also on the call. He commented that the markets were very bad at the 
moment and FASL should not just blindly process things.
Although the relationship manager raised the possibility of drip feeding the investments, she 
also made it clear it was in Ms Ps control to decide how to do it. I dont think she was 
persuaded she had to act in a particular way. Ms P could have left the funds invested in line 
with the original selection but said she did not want that  indeed she was adamant she had 
never given an instruction. I have considered what she says in her complaint but I find the 
comments she made at the time persuasive. Im satisfied it was Ms Ps decision to reverse 
the transactions. FASL acted in line with her instructions so I dont think its responsible if 
she suffered a loss as a result of that.
I agree it would have been upsetting to be told different things and there was some 
confusion about what had happened. But FASL sorted things out quickly and did what Ms P 
requested. Taking all of this into account I consider the offer of £50 was fair.
My final decision
Financial Administration Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman