DRN-3804329
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd (WFM).
Mr C is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). Any submissions by 
Mr C will include any submissions by the CMC.
What happened
As set out in my first and second provisional decisions, the background to this complaint is 
as follows:
In July 2014 Mr C was advised by WFM to invest £100,000 into Dolphin Capital Loan Notes 
(Dolphin). The last completed fact find before this advice was dated 11 February 2013. In 
summary, the WFM adviser (the adviser) noted Mr Cs circumstances were as follows: 
He was 37 years old, married with two dependent children.
He owned 100% shareholding in his own limited company and was a director. The 
limited companys value was recorded in the fact find as £1,000,000. And its retained 
profits were £500,000. He owed the limited company £70,000 for a directors loan. 
Mr C had an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) valued at £450,000.
He had £70,000 in an Individual Savings Account (ISA), investments totalling 
£30,000 and cash in bank of £100,000.
His recorded yearly net income was £70,000 and yearly outgoings was £50,000.
He had a Rainy Day Fund of £200,000.
He jointly owned his residential property valued at £650,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £212,000. It was noted that Mr C and his wife, Mrs C, were buying a 
new property at the end of 2013.
He had three personal pension plans valued at £234,720, £22,500, and £6,685.
The fact find said that Mr Cs main objectives were recorded as pension planning and 
Inheritance Tax/ Estate planning. It was noted he wanted to maximise his pension 
contributions via his limited company. Mr C was recorded as a retail client, who was a high 
net worth (HNW) individual. The adviser noted the intention was to investigate potential 
high risk/ high reward investments. The adviser went on to say that Mr C already had a 
share portfolio and understood investments.
On 14 May 2014 the adviser completed an annual review with Mr C. He made the following 
points about Mr Cs circumstances at that point:
He had a directors loan account of £75,000.
There was £400,000 in the limited company bank account.
His home was valued at £750,000 with a mortgage of around £200,000.
He had £200,000 in various ISAs.
He had around £250,000 Rainy Day Fund but this was earmarked for the purchase 
of his dream home which he hadnt bought yet due to house prices.
He had £700,000 to invest.
He was interested in investing in asset backed investments  the adviser noted Mr 
C was happy to consider investments not correlated to the stock market. The Dolphin 
investment was discussed during the meeting.
On 9 July 2014 a file note by the adviser recorded details of Mr Cs circumstances along with 
his (Mr Cs) wife. It said that they were both interested in buying asset backed investments 
and details were given on the Dolphin investment along with another investment. The 
adviser noted theyd also discussed the nature of the Dolphin loan notes including that these 
were for a fixed term of either one, three or five years and that they werent liquid.
In the July file note, the adviser recorded that Mr C was sitting on £1,000,000 in cash and 
an investment report had been sent to him. This report appears to be in reference to a 
suitability report dated 2 June 2014 where the adviser recommended various investments 
totalling £700,000. But the adviser said in the July note that Mr C was holding fire on 
following the recommendations, because of a possible house purchase. The note also said 
Mr C had requested paperwork to invest £100,000 into the Dolphin investment. The adviser 
noted he had told Mr C that 100% of his money would be invested if he (Mr C) invested in 
Dolphin, as WFM would receive its fee of £3,000 by way of a marketing fee from the 
provider.
Mr Cs attitude to risk was assessed on 23 May 2014 by WFM as Adventurous. This 
category was described by WFM as someone who: aims to maximize long-term expected 
returns rather than to minimize possible short-term losses. And: values high returns 
relatively more and can tolerate both large and frequent fluctuations through time in portfolio 
value in exchange for a higher return over the long term.
A suitability report was completed on 30 July 2014. The adviser said Mr C was looking to 
invest in fixed term asset backed investments. The suitability report set out the main 
characteristics of the Dolphin loan notes as follows:
Dolphin Capital GmbH (Dolphin Capital) loans money from qualifying individuals in 
return for a fixed interest payment which would be encapsulated in a legally binding 
loan contract.
All investment contracts and other associated documentation had been carefully 
created by lawyers in the UK and Germany.
Dolphin had a five year trading history and had completed over 200 units.
Interest rates of up to 14% per year were achievable when the longer term options 
were chosen which were 3 and 5 year term options. Mr C selected the 5 year term.
The investment was secured with a first legal charge on the underlying asset class, 
which was noted to be German Listed Buildings.
Under risk factors the suitability report said:
This was an unregulated investment.
In the event of Dolphin Capital experiencing unforeseen prolonged adverse markets 
this could result in having an adverse effect on the interest payable and the return of 
investor's capital. In the very worst case scenario, this could result in all or some of 
the investment being lost.
There were various development risks associated with the construction industry.
There was an exchange rate risk.
The interest was fixed for the term chosen but could not be considered guaranteed.
Return of capital could not be guaranteed.The suitability report noted that the risk factors were mitigated by:
Careful planning of its development and construction programme and ensuring 
agreements were in place to purchase the completed properties prior to committing 
investor's funds (i.e. 'sold off plan').
Strong demand for completed Listed Buildings and high demand for New Homes.
The contrarian view that any break-up of the Euro and the Eurozone reverts to 
national currencies was likely to lead to a rise in the re-adopted Deutschmark as a 
strong currency.
Investor's funds were to be held in a separate client account with a law firm until 
required and then only released in stages as the work progressed.
The SPV (Special Purpose Vehicle) held the first legal charge which secured the 
investors capital and interest.
An independent trustee represents the interests of all investors.
Dolphin maintains a contingency reserve to cover any exchange rate movements.
It had a good credit rating.
It was also noted that: Dolphin takes the responsibility of investor's funds very seriously and 
is confident that a combination of its proven track record, strong financial position and 
operating processes, ensures investors funds are safeguarded.
The adviser ended by saying (bold WPM emphasis): I confirm that Dolphin Capital is a 
unique product. It cannot be directly compared to any other product offered by other 
companies in the marketplace. Taking into account your current circumstances and stated 
objectives, I would advise that these plans are suitable for you and are in line with your 
attitude to risk for these investments.
During the course of the advice, Mr C was treated as a HNW individual and a sophisticated 
investor. A HNW form was completed on 21 March 2013. As set out in the regulators (the 
Financial Conduct Authority) Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 4.12.6, this allowed 
firms to communicate an invitation to purchase a non-mainstream pooled investment to a 
retail client. To self-certify as a HNW individual, Mr C had to either have an income of 
£100,000 or more or hold, throughout the financial year, net assets to the value of £250,000 
or more. But the net assets couldnt include Mr Cs primary residence or pension benefits.
Mr C was also certified by the adviser as a sophisticated investor. Under COBS 4.12.7 a 
firm could certify an investor as sophisticated if it had signed a certificate within the last 36 
months confirming the investor had been assessed by that firm as sufficiently 
knowledgeable to understand the risks associated with engaging in investment activity in 
non-mainstream pooled investments. The investor also had to sign a prescribed statement 
within the period of twelve months ending with the day on which the communication was 
made, confirming he/ she was a sophisticated investor.
Mr C could also self-certify that he was a sophisticated investor if he met certain 
requirements (COBS 4.12.8) such as having had made an investment in an unlisted 
company in the two years prior or having been a director of a company with an annual 
turnover of £1,000,000. Mr C did sign a sophisticated investor form on 13 March 2015.
Following the advice in July 2014, Mr C accepted the recommendations and signed an 
expression of interest form for the Dolphin investment on 17 July 2014 and invested 
£100,000 in line with the recommendations made by WFM. In a Portfolio Valuation 
prepared by WFM for Mr C dated 6 March 2019, this showed the investment was valued at 
£181,057. But in 2020 Dolphin Capital and other associated companies entered into 
preliminary bankruptcy proceedings in Germany.Mr C complained to WFM about its advice. In summary, he said:
The Dolphin investment wasnt suitable for him as he didnt fully understand the risks.
He didnt have significant investment experience and hadnt invested in an 
unregulated type investment before receiving advice from WFM.
He wasnt a HNW individual and/ or a sophisticated investor. He only signed the self-
certified forms as he trusted the advisers view on this.
He considered the adviser conflated his (Mr Cs) level of income and/ or wealth with 
that of his (Mr Cs) limited company. He didnt consider his earnings had been 
properly assessed or recorded by WFM.
Mr C said the reasons for asking for advice from WFM was because he had debts of 
more than £500,000 and wanted to find a way to invest to be able to use this to pay 
his debts. He didnt think the Dolphin investment was suitable to meet this objective. 
WFM rejected Mr Cs complaint. It maintained Mr C was a HNW individual and a 
sophisticated investor. WFM said Mr C signed documents to confirm he fell into both these 
categories and his limited company accounts supported his level of wealth. WFM said Mr C 
had taken part in a tax mitigation scheme, and he has had to pay significant tax and 
penalties, which WFM said proved he was a sophisticated client.
WFM said Mr C has also invested in a number of other investments such as Enterprise 
Investment Schemes (EIS) and single company share investments. WFM says Mr C has 
also stock picked his own shares with no advice from it. WFM maintains that Mr Cs attitude 
to risk was adventurous. And it thought its recommendation to invest in Dolphin was 
suitable based on the level of risk he was willing and able to take.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In brief, she didnt think the Dolphin investment was 
suitable for Mr C as she couldnt agree that he was a sophisticated investor. She considered 
he had insufficient experience in investing and didnt understand the risks involved in 
investing in an unregulated investment such as Dolphin. She also noted Mr C had said that 
he wanted the investment to help him pay his debts in the future. She didnt think investing in 
such a high risk venture met with this objective
WFM disagreed and repeated its arguments as set out above. So, the matter was passed to 
me for a decision.
I asked Mr C for more information about his financial position at the time of the advice. The 
documents he provided including bank statements and full yearly accounts for his limited 
company showed the following for the period leading up to the advice in July 2014:
-February 2014: Mr C was the sole shareholder in his limited company. The accounts 
for year ending February 2014 showed shareholders funds of £480,941.
-May to July 2014: His savings and current accounts held total cash of £669,108.
-June 2014: He had a stocks and shares ISA valued at £87,027.
-From February 2014 onwards he had an EFURBS Loan (see below) with an 
outstanding balance of £348,250.
-July 2014: He had a directors loan of £31,000.
-June 2014: His outstanding joint mortgage was £68,559.
-Based on these sums, Mr Cs net asset position was approximately £789,267.
An EFRBS or EFURBS is an Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Scheme. It was also 
referred to by the adviser as an EBT (see above) but I will refer to it as EFURBS for the 
remainder of this decision. An EFURBS is set up as a discretionary trust and the limited company transfers funds into the trust. EFURBS have, in the past, been used to confer tax-
exempt or low tax benefits often by making loans. The loan itself becomes payable on 
demand and Mr C was asked to repay this in full by the trustees in April 2019.
In my provisional decisions, I upheld the complaint. However, I assumed that Mr Cs 
investment was held in a wrapper but it was not. So, Ive amended the redress to reflect that 
Mr C put cash direct into the investment. I will also address the comments received from 
both parties below.
Both parties responded to the provisional decisions as follows:
WFM, in summary, maintained that the Dolphin investment was suitable for Mr C as 
he was a high net worth individual and a sophisticated investor. WFM repeated much 
of what it had said before such as Mr C having done tax planning using an EBT. 
WFM also referred to the investment Mr C made via his SSAS which was referred to 
in my provisional decision. And WFM again referred to further unregulated 
investments Mr C made after the Dolphin investment. WFM said Mr C had invested 
over a £1,047,993 in EIS investments which it said proved he was a sophisticated 
and high net worth investor. It said his risk rating of Adventurous was correct for 
Mr C. But it conceded that there was an inconsistency in the attitude to risk form. 
However, it said it had discussed this with Mr C at the time and he (Mr C) agreed he 
had answered this incorrectly. 
Mr C via the CMC said, overall, he (Mr C) was satisfied with the outcome. However, 
he said he was not a high net worth individual as I had calculated in my provisional 
decision. The CMC accepted that the mortgage on his private property could not be 
included. But said that at least the secured overdraft debt, which was linked to his 
mortgage of £68,559 should be included as a debt. The CMC said the EFURB 
combined debt was £516,884. It said the recourse loan linked to an investment was 
not included. Further, it said that the shareholders funds of £480,941 should be 
treated as an asset of Mr Cs company rather than his personal asset. 
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having re-considered everything, Im still upholding Mr Cs complaint. I set out the reasons 
for my decision in my provisional decisions which now form part of my final decision as 
follows:
Before I explain my reasoning, I think its important to point out that where theres conflicting 
information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the 
evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to 
have happened. Further, Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this 
case. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of 
this complaint.
The Dolphin investment was unregulated and could only be promoted to retail investors that 
were either self-certified as HNW investors or certified sophisticated investors. 
In terms of the sophisticated investor, the regulations required an individual who has a 
certificate signed by a firm within the last 36 months must confirm he/ she: has been 
assessed by that firm as sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the risks associated with 
engaging in investment activity in non-mainstream pooled investments. It also required the 
investor to sign a statement to confirm they can receive promotional communications which are exempt from the restriction on promotion of non-mainstream pooled investments (COB 
4.12.7(2)). This had to be done within the twelve months ending with the day on which the 
communication was made.
I cant see Mr C did sign a statement to say he can receive the relevant promotional material 
as required by COBS 4.12.7(2). The earliest I can see a signed form from him was in March 
2015, which fell under the requirement of A self-certified sophisticated investor under COBS 
4.12.8. So, it doesnt appear to me that all the requirements of 4.12.7 had been met at the 
time of the advice in July 2014. But even if Mr C had signed a statement as he was required 
to do, I cant fairly say WFMs assessment of him as a sophisticated investor was reasonable 
based on the limited knowledge and experience of these types of investments and/ or 
investments generally.
The risk assessment questionnaire Mr C completed focused on three factors WFM said 
impacted on investing decisions  these were capacity for loss, time horizon and risk 
aversion. There was nothing in the risk assessment that focused on previous experience.
From what I can see the only experience Mr C had at the time of the advice of non-
mainstream investments was in an EIS (Enterprise Investment Scheme) which had been 
recommended to him in February 2014 by WFM. This investment, which is generally 
considered in itself to be high risk, was invested through Mr Cs Small Self Administered 
Scheme (SSAS) pension plan.
Further, the fact find completed in February 2013 didnt show that Mr C had any experience 
in non-mainstream investments. The adviser noted the plan was to: investigate potential 
high risk/ high reward investments [Mr C] currently has a share portfolio and understands 
investments. But at this point the only investments Mr C was recorded to have were through 
an ISA which invested through an Investment Trust and investments in three personal 
pension plans which were all managed funds. Mr C subsequently transferred these to a 
SSAS on the advice of WFM and this is when he invested in the EIS. Whilst the fact find 
from 2013, also said Mr C had £30,000 in investments, there was no mention of what these 
investments were.
So, in my view and on balance, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to show Mr C was 
sufficiently knowledgeable about the risks associated with investing in non-mainstream 
pooled investments. Whilst WFM have pointed to the EFURBS Mr C had set up, I cant see 
how this is related to understanding the risks of non-mainstream pooled investments. This 
was set up following advice from a professionally qualified accountant and isnt related to 
any type of investing as far as I can see.
Turning to whether, or not, Mr C should have been treated as HNW investor, the 
requirements for this are based on their financial position - there is no requirement for him to 
have any knowledge or experience of investments. I think its likely that Mr C did, just based 
on his net asset position at the time, fall into a HNW category. I know Mr C had said 
previously he had a recourse loan and other debts but from what I can see from the 
documents he has provided, at the time of the advice, his liabilities were still much less than 
his assets. And he does confirm that he had access to cash of around £700,000 which were 
held in savings and investment (ISA) accounts.
Regardless of whether the adviser shouldve promoted the investment to Mr C it still had to 
be suitable, and I am not satisfied it was. WFM had to obtain the information necessary for it 
to have a reasonable basis for believing that what it recommended: met the clients 
investment objectives; is such that the client can bear the investment risk; is such that the 
client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks (COBS 9.2.2). However, I cant see there is any evidence that WFM met its regulatory duty to establish 
Mr Cs financial position before making its recommendation to him to assess whether he 
could bear the loss. Ive set out above, what, on balance, I think Mr Cs financial position 
was at the time of the advice. But no fact find seems to have been completed by the adviser 
before the advice was provided. The last fact find was completed in February 2013 which 
was more than a year before the advice to invest in Dolphin was made.
That said, some handwritten notes were made by the adviser in May and July 2014  Ive 
summarised these above. But much of what was said seems contradictory and incomplete. 
For example, in one note the adviser says Mr C had £200,000 in various ISAs and £250,000 
for a rainy day. Its unclear where these figures came from given the more recent information 
provided to me by Mr C. Also it says that Mr C had £700,000 to invest. However, this would 
have been almost the entire amount of his net assets. The adviser recorded in one note that 
Mr C had £1,000,000 in cash. But again, I cant see that this statement is supported by the 
contemporaneous evidence at the time. And I question why the adviser wasnt asking more 
questions about Mr Cs financial position given his duty to ensure that he (Mr C) could bear 
the loss of the investment if it failed in anyway.
The adviser noted in the suitability report under the heading Affordability and Rainy Day 
Fund: You confirmed that the investment of £100,000 is affordable to you know (sic) and in 
the foreseeable future. You confirmed that you are willing to invest this money over the 
medium term. Despite this statement, the adviser doesnt appear to have made any real 
effort to establish whether the £100,000 was in fact, affordable to Mr C given his plan to 
purchase a family home.
Whilst Mr C may have qualified as a HNW individual, its clear that he had a significant 
amount of debt at the time. And its clear that much of his finances were earmarked to 
purchase a new family home in cash. This seems to be something the adviser was aware of 
having noted it down in several documents. It was also the reason Mr C didnt follow earlier 
advice to invest £700,000 which was recommended by WFM in June 2014.
So, on balance, I think the adviser was aware that Mr C was likely to be using all his spare 
capital to purchase a property but there was no reference to this in the suitability report in 
July 2014. And its therefore far from clear whether Mr C did have the capacity to bear the 
loss of a £100,000 investment if it were to fail.
I also note from 2 June 2014 suitability report, the adviser said: We agreed that 
diversification is important and you [Mr C] confirmed you would like a mixture of investments, 
I provided you with some information on asset backed investments and you confirmed you 
would like your investment portfolio to contain this type of investment also. Despite what the 
adviser said about diversification by July 2014, this doesnt seem to have formed part of his 
considerations as he advised Mr C to put all of his available funds, apart from those 
earmarked for the purchase of a new property, to be placed in a single investment.
Further, the only other significant investments Mr C had at the time of the July advice was an 
EIS valued at £250,000 via his SSAS, and a stocks and shares ISA valued at £87,027. So, a 
£100,000 investment accounted for almost 23% of Mr Cs investment portfolio. The Dolphin 
investment was unregulated and illiquid. It was a high risk investment. But, in addition, 
investing 23% of an investment portfolio in a single investment, was, in my view, an over 
concentration in one asset.
I also dont think enough was done to highlight the risks associated with this type of 
investment so as to allow Mr C to make an informed choice as to whether to follow the 
advice. Prior to receiving any advice from WFM, as Ive set out in detail above, Mr Cs had 
very little investment experience. However, as Ive said, just before the advice in July 2014, Mr C invested in an EIS on the advice of WFM  this is a type of investment normally 
reserved for more high risk profiles  but up until this point Mr C hadnt invested in any 
unregulated or particularly high risk investments.
Despite Mr Cs limited investment experience, his risk rating was assessed by WFM as 
adventurous. Further, in one question there was an indication that Mr C was not as 
adventurous as WFM classed him as. In answer to the question I am comfortable with 
investments that may frequently experience large losses in value if there is a potential for 
higher returns. Does this describe you?. Mr C answer strongly disagree to this question. 
This doesnt suggest a profile of someone who was particularly adventurous with their 
investment choices. Further, none of the questions Mr C was asked in the risk assessment 
took into account his actual investment experience.
WFM say Mr C was made aware that the investment was high risk and of the risks more 
generally. This is all set out in the suitability report which Ive summarised above. But in my 
view, there is nothing in the suitability reports I have seen which refers to the investment as 
high risk. And the risk warnings that were provided focused on the benefits more than the 
inherent risks in this type of investment. For example, the adviser stated about the Dolphin 
investment that: Dolphin takes the responsibility of investor's funds very seriously and is 
confident that a combination of its proven track record, strong financial position and 
operating processes, ensures investors funds are safeguarded. And as Ive said above, 
even where risks were set out, this was quickly followed by mitigating factors that were 
claiming to be designed to provide protection against these risks.
I dont think it is surprising in the circumstances that Mr C mayve been under the impression 
there was no real risk to his money. As Ive set out above, despite having several risk 
warnings, none of these stressed the high risk nature of the investment in sufficiently clear 
terms. Instead, it emphasised that whatever risk there was, was mitigated suggesting there 
was no significant risk to the investors capital.
In short, Im not satisfied WFM adviser obtained sufficient information from Mr C which gave 
him (the adviser) a reasonable basis for believing that Mr C had the necessary experience 
and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the Dolphin investment. I also dont think 
the adviser sufficiently took into account Mr Cs overall circumstances and objectives when 
making his recommendations. From the outset, there appeared to be more focus on selling 
Mr C a high risk and asset backed investment than there was in giving him clear, fair and 
not misleading advice.
WFM has told this service that it cant be held responsible for what happened to Dolphin 
which it said was the result of fraud. Whilst I take this point, I am not upholding the complaint 
based on subsequent events. I am upholding this complaint because I dont think the 
Dolphin investment was suitable for Mr C for the reasons Ive set out above. Overall, I dont 
think the advice to invest in the Dolphin investment was a reasonable one to make. And I 
dont think Mr C would have invested in this product if it hadnt been for the advice he 
received from WFM.
In response to my provisional decisions, Mr Cs representatives argued that I should look at 
other investments recommended to him by WFM. But the process for doing this has been 
explained to both the representatives and Mr C. It does not form part of this complaint and 
will not be considered here.
Mr C has clarified to say the investment in his SASS was not an EIS but unquoted shares in 
a company which was introduced to him by the WFM adviser. He also said that he has spent 
a great deal of money on fees to the adviser and wanted these to be considered in the 
redress. Whilst I take on board Mr Cs points, the fees for this advice was paid by the provider. And I cant make an award for other fees that Mr C paid for in respect of other 
advice or ongoing advice. These are separate issues. My role is to try to put Mr C back in a 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice to invest in the Dolphin Capital 
Loan Notes and my redress below reflects this.
In its response to my first and second provisional decision, WFM reiterated that Mr C was a 
sophisticated investor. However, as I said in my reasoning above, Mr C had no experience 
of this type of investment. And the only other unregulated investment he had was in 
unquoted shares which had been introduced to him by WFM only a few months before the 
Dolphin recommendation. I do not think this meant that Mr C had sufficient knowledge and 
understanding to invest in an investment such as Dolphin loan notes. Further, WFM refer to 
other (unregulated) investments Mr C invested in after the Dolphin investment. But I cant 
see how this has any bearing on the advice he was given prior to these investments. 
WFM say that Mr C was a HNW individual. I think on balance that was probably correct. But 
as Ive said above, that doesnt mean the investment he was recommended to invest in was 
suitable for him. And Ive given reasons for this above which I wont repeat again here.
In terms of what Mr C has said, the document dated 24 November 2012 shows the EFURB 
loan as £348,250. It was dated by the trustees on 20 February 2014, not long before the 
Dolphin advice. I take on board what the CMC says about the shareholders assets not being 
Mr Cs. But he was the sole shareholder in that company and if he had chosen to take the 
cash as dividend he could have done so at any point. So, I think its fair to say that this 
formed part of his asset position at the time. Of course, the company could have used the 
funds for other purposes but my calculations are just an estimate of the likely asset position 
of Mr C at the time. And he was the sole shareholder in a business with significant 
shareholder funds available for distribution.
On balance, I think there is enough to show he was, by the regulators standards, a high net 
worth individual. But this doesnt change the outcome of the decision and I dont think further 
discussion on this point would serve any useful purpose. I consider that regardless of 
whether Mr C was a HNW individual or not, the Dolphin investment was not suitable for him 
and I think the reason for this remains as Ive set out above and in my provisional decisions. 
So, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr C as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when 
he invested.
What must Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should also pay interest as set out 
below.Pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused by the likely total loss of the investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Dolphin 
Capital Loan 
NotesStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not 
possible for Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to Wealthmasters Financial Management 
Ltd any amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd should pay Mr C the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any 
interest set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should provide 
details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays Mr C 
the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd does not pay the full fair compensation in line 
with the recommendation, then any investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mr C. 
This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the investment together with the 
compensation paid by Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd (excluding any interest) 
equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd may request an undertaking from Mr C that 
either he repays to Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd any amount Mr C may 
receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman