DRN-3594225
The complaint
Mr K complained because Vanquis Bank Limited didnt agree that someone had fraudulently 
opened an account in his name. 
What happened
On 11 July 2021, a Vanquis credit card was opened using Mr Ks details.  The card was 
used later in July for two transactions, one in person and one online, totalling £244.77.
On 7 August, Mr K used the Vanquis app to report his card stolen, and to dispute the two 
July transactions. 
At 3:11 am on 11 August, the registered mobile number was changed on Mr Ks account, by 
one digit. Whoever did this used the registered device, and device fingerprint, to access the 
app in order to make the change.
The same day, at 18:23, Mr K rang Vanquis to dispute the two transactions. He said hed 
lost his card, and had never used it, because hed only got the card to build up his credit 
score, so hed put it in a cupboard. The adviser asked if hed applied for the card and Mr K 
said he wasnt quite sure as hed applied for a few cards. Mr K said he had the app, but the 
phone number on it wasnt right. It was one digit different. The adviser asked if Mr K had 
updated the phone number, and he said he hadnt. The adviser checked with Mr K that hed 
applied for the card, and had downloaded the app, which he agreed he had done.
On 16 August, Mr K rang Vanquis again, and said that someone had opened the account in 
his name. He said he believed this because when hed phoned before, the phone number 
had been different. Vanquis said it would block the account and would refer the matter to its 
fraud team. 
Vanquis investigated. In its final response letter on 30 September, it said that it held Mr K 
liable for the account and transactions because:
- the account had ben accessed through the Vanquis mobile app from the registered 
device on several occasions. It said that registering a device on the app required the 
user to know the mobile number registered on the account, and the account holders 
date of birth. A verification code would then have been sent to the trusted mobile 
number or email address, which would have had to be entered into the app for 
confirm registration of the device;
- the registered mobile number had been used to activate the card;.
- at  3:11 am on 11 August, the registered device identification, and the registered 
device fingerprint, had been used to access the app  to change the last digit of the 
mobile number. This was before Mr K rang Vanquis at 18:23 the same day;
- the in-person disputed transaction had been carried out with the genuine card and 
correct PIN.
Mr K wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Hed said that no-one had access to his 
phone; he didnt have the app; and he only found out about the account when he received a 
letter about the outstanding balance.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said that she didnt find his testimony to 
be credible. Among other things, she pointed out that there had been a call from Mr Ks 
mobile on 11 August saying his card had been stolen, but on 16 August he reported that he 
hadnt taken opened the account at all.
Mr K didnt accept this. He raised a number of points about another card organisation, which 
wasnt linked to Vanquis. He also said that it wasnt correct that the phone number had been 
changed on 11 August before he rang Vanquis. He also said that he had a different name, 
date of birth and phone number from those used to apply for the Vanquis card.
The investigator explained to Mr K that his account with another financial organisation wasnt 
relevant to his Vanquis complaint. And the Vanquis application form showed that Mr Ks 
name, address and date of birth hadnt ever been changed and were the same as the ones 
hed quoted to us. Only the phone number had been changed, before Mr K rang Vanquis on 
11 August.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the other financial organisation and Vanquis were part of the 
same company. And he said hed phoned Vanquis when hed received the letter about the 
balance on the account. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats relevant to the outcome
The information Ive seen and listened to includes phone call recordings of Mr Ks calls with 
Vanquis, especially on 11 and 16 August 2021, and the technical computer evidence which 
shows exactly what happened on Mr Ks account.
What isnt relevant, however, is the messages which Mr K has recently sent to us about the 
other financial organisation. That other financial organisation isnt in the same financial group 
as Vanquis, as Mr K believes. If he has any complaint about that organisation, hed need to 
raise that separately with the other organisation. But that doesnt affect the outcome of his 
complaint about Vanquis.
What I consider is most likely to have happened
The computer evidence shows that the account was set up with the same name, address, 
and date of birth that Mr K provided to this service when he contacted us.  So I dont agree 
with Mr K that the Vanquis account was set up by someone else who didnt use Mr Ks 
correct details. I think its most likely he opened it himself, as Ill explain.
The evidence shows that the phone number originally registered on the account was the 
number which Mr K also provided to Vanquis during the dispute. It was changed at 3:11am 
on 11 August. Whoever did that used Mr Ks registered device and device fingerprint to 
access the Vanquis mobile app. Mr K hasnt suggested any way in which a third party might 
have obtained access to these.Mr Ks evidence to Vanquis was inconsistent. Ive listened to the calls, and in the call on 11 
August, he said hed opened the account himself. In the call on 16 August, he said he hadnt. 
The reason he gave to back up not having opened the account himself was that the phone 
number was one digit out. But as Ive explained above, this was changed shortly before Mr K 
rang Vanquis, and it used Mr Ks registered device, device fingerprint, and Vanquis mobile 
app. So I dont agree that the phone number proves that Mr K didnt open the account.
Turning to the disputed transactions, the online transaction was carried out through the app. 
This had been registered using Mr Ks phone number and date of birth, with a verification 
code which had to be entered into the app to confirm registration. And the in-person 
transaction was carried out with the genuine card, as shown by the chip. The chip in a card 
cant be copied, so its clear this was the genuine card. And the correct PIN number was 
entered. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so its not likely that any 
third party could have guessed Mr Ks PIN, even if theyd somehow obtained Mr Ks genuine 
card which he said he kept in a cupboard.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Mr K opened the account 
himself, as he himself said on the earlier calls to Vanquis, and that he carried out the 
disputed transactions too. So I dont require Vanquis to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman