DRN-1578975
The complaint
Mr P complains about the end of term charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) asked him to pay when he returned a car he was financing through them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr P responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The Vehicle Return Standard, supplied to Mr P at the start of the agreement, 
explained the condition MBFS required the car to be returned in. Within that standard 
MBFS set out what was, and wasnt, acceptable damage on the wheels and tyres. 
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr P disputes the damage to the wheels and tyres that MBFS have asked him to pay 
refurbishment charges for. So, Ive considered the photographs of the damage that 
are provided in the inspection report completed at handover. The investigator has set 
out the standard required under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I agree with her 
assessment, that each area of damage is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear.
The two tyres (LHF and RHR) have cuts in the sidewall and any damage to sidewalls 
is considered by the BVRLA guidance to be unacceptable. The four wheels all have 
scuffs that are in excess of 50 mm and are therefore beyond what would be deemed 
acceptable. There is also damage to the spokes which is not allowed under the 
guidance.
Mr P says he wasnt made aware that wheel and tyre damage formed part of the 
return standard. But I can see that he was provided with a copy of the Vehicle Return 
Standard at the start of the agreement and that the standard the tyres and wheels 
should be returned in was explained to him.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges MBFS have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors. If Mr P wanted to get the repairs completed at a more 
competitive price he was able to do so before the car was returned.
I think MBFS have been reasonable when they agreed to waive the charge for the front right 
tyre as it wasnt well evidenced. Theyve also been fair when applying a 10% discount to the 
damage element of the invoice. I dont think they need to take any additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to waive the charge of £172.61 for the front right tyre and to 
apply the 10% reduction they have already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman