DRN-1189709
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of an account that was opened in 
his name. 
What happened
In 2002 an account was opened for Mr H with Barclays. He was a minor at the time. The 
account was later incorrectly converted to a business account. Mr H says this happened 
following a change of address, while he was still a minor. Barclays says this change 
happened in 2007 and has acknowledged this was done in error.
Mr H says that a complaint was made when the address was changed. Unfortunately, no 
record of that complaint is available. 
Barclays has provided account statements showing that Mr H was still using the account in 
October 2007  after the change took place. Barclays has said that Mr H continued to use 
the account until December 2008 and that at that point it was approximately £99 overdrawn. 
It says no further transactions have been made to the account by Mr H since that point.
Mr H says he believed that the account was closed as a result of the complaint made 
previously about the error in converting it to a business account  as he received no further 
correspondence about it for a number of years. But the account in fact remained open.
Statements provided by Barclays show that the balance continued to incur debit interest. In 
July 2013 the account was approximately £175 overdrawn. By March 2017 the outstanding 
balance had risen to £308.68. No further interest or charges were applied after that point.
In February 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr H confirming that the outstanding balance would be 
written off and the account would be closed. But it noted information recorded with credit 
reference agencies, to that point, would remain. Due to an error by Barclays only part of the 
balance was written off. So, an amount remained outstanding and the account remained 
open.
In 2019 Mr H was contacted by a third-party debt recovery agent working on behalf of 
Barclays.
Mr H complained to Barclays about this. Barclays initially incorrectly categorised the 
complaint as being about payment protection insurance. So, Mr H then asked our service to 
look into the complaint.
Barclays then investigated the complaint and said it had made an error by not closing the 
account as it said it would in February 2018. It said that it was arranging for the account to 
now be cleared and closed. And it had told the recovery agents to stop contacting Mr H. 
Barclays said it couldnt find details of a previous complaint about how the account was 
setup. But in light of the delay in closing the account it offered to pay Mr H £150 for the 
inconvenience caused.
The letter Barclays sent to Mr H explaining its response was sent to an incorrect address. 
Mr H says he only became aware of Barclays response after our service shared it with him. 
Barclays apologised for this and said it was down to an administrative error.
Mr H was unhappy with Barclays response and asked our service to investigate the matter 
further. He said that being contacted by debt collectors had caused him significant distress. 
He also said that his credit file had been affected for a number of years due to this account  
both having been changed to an incorrect type and by it remaining open. And he was also 
concerned that Barclays had sent the final response letter to an incorrect address, which he 
had not lived at for a number of years.
Our investigator looked into things. He noted we couldnt look into what had happened when 
the account type was changed because of how long ago this happened, which Mr H 
accepted. He said Barclays had made an error  it hadnt done what it said it would in 
February 2018. And this had led to a third party being incorrectly asked to contact Mr H and 
collect the outstanding balance. But he felt Barclays had acted reasonably when it was made 
aware of this as it had then written the debt off and closed the account. And he felt the offer 
of £150 was fair for the distress caused. He also felt Barclays apology for sending its 
response to an incorrect address was sufficient.
Barclays had also said, while we were investigating the complaint, that its records show that 
this account had not actually been reported to credit reference agencies, despite earlier 
references to this. The investigator asked Mr H for a copy of his credit file, but this wasnt 
provided. So, based on the information we had, the investigator thought that they couldnt 
say on balance that adverse information had been reported or that it had caused Mr H a 
loss.
Mr H did not agree with the investigators opinion. He said he didnt think the offer made was 
a fair way to address the distress this had caused. And he asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained to Mr H, and he acknowledged, that we would not be looking into 
what happened when the account type was changed, given the time that passed. Barclays 
has however acknowledged that an error was made. Ive seen evidence that Mr H used the 
account after the account type was changed, including taking the account overdrawn on 
occasion. And I havent seen anything to show that he paid the account off in full at any point 
or that it was previously agreed that it would be closed. As a result, I dont think I can 
reasonably say Barclays made a mistake by leaving the account open up to 2018.
Ive reviewed the letter Barclays sent Mr H in February 2018. This confirmed the balance 
would be written off and the account closed, which I think was reasonable. This didnt 
happen. It isnt in dispute that this was an error by Barclays. 
This error resulted in the account incorrectly remaining open. And in turn resulted in a third-
party company contacting Mr H about the balance, which shouldnt have happened. I dont 
doubt that this was upsetting and frustrating for Mr H. And I think this was a consequence of 
Barclays mistake.
Where an error is made our general approach is to look to put a consumer back, as close as 
possible, to the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. Barclays has confirmed that the balance on the account has now been written off and the account has 
been closed  the position it shouldve been in before it made an error. And it has confirmed 
that the third-party company has been instructed not to contact Mr H. And Mr H has 
mentioned that hes had direct confirmation of this from the third-party. So, I think Barclays 
has largely put Mr H in the position he would otherwise have been in had its error not 
occurred.
Mr H says that the account remaining open resulted in negative information being recorded 
on his credit file. But, although weve asked to see a copy of this, he hasnt been able to 
provide one.
Barclays initially said, when it wrote to Mr H in 2018, that information reported to credit 
reference agencies prior to it closing the account would remain. Indicating that information 
had been reported. However, in its response to our service following the complaint, it said 
that it could actually find no evidence that the account had been reported to credit reference 
agencies.
As Ive said previously, I dont think Barclays was wrong to keep the account open up to 
February 2018. So, had it reported information about the account to credit reference 
agencies up to that point, I dont think I could reasonably require it to remove this, as it would 
accurately reflect the status of the account. 
The account should have closed following confirmation from Barclays that it would in 
February 2018. So, no further information shouldve been reported from that point. And if it 
had been, I think it would be fair for Barclays to arrange for this to be removed. But Barclays 
has said its records indicate nothing has been recorded. And Ive not seen any evidence to 
the contrary. So, based on the information currently available, on balance I dont think it 
needs to do more. 
I dont doubt that the error Barclays made around the closure of the account, and what has 
happened since, was distressing for Mr H. Hes explained how upsetting this was when he 
found out about the error in 2019, when contacted by the third party. So, Ive thought about 
what a fair way to address this would be. But having done so, while I know this is likely to 
come as a disappointment to Mr H, I think the offer of £150 already made by Barclays is fair 
and reasonable. So, I wont be requiring it to do more.
Turning to how Mr Hs complaint was handled, the information Ive seen does suggest that 
Barclays couldve dealt with things better. The complaint was initially incorrectly thought to 
be about payment protection insurance. And Barclays sent a response letter to one of Mr Hs 
previous address in error. I think this was likely was frustrating and upsetting for Mr H, at a 
time when he was already unhappy with Barclays actions. But I note Barclays has 
apologised for this. And overall, I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint which 
I think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H 
the £150 it previously offered.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman