DRN-4072366
The complaint
Ms D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) increased her home emergency 
premium unfairly because shed been a long-term customer.
What happened
Ms D had home emergency cover with BG for 13 years. In 2022, after finding cheaper 
policies online with other insurers, she complained to BG. Ms D said BG had overcharged 
her for years because she was a loyal customer. 
BG offered Ms D an alternative, cheaper policy which she accepted. But she asked BG why 
it hadnt offered her alternative policies at renewal and requested a refund of the 
overcharges.
After looking into her complaint, BG issued a final response. It said Ms D had chosen to 
renew each year so there would be no refund of her payments.
Ms D complained again to BG because she found the response unprofessional, and she felt 
justified in asking for a refund of her payments. BG apologised for the tone of its letter, but 
repeated the underlying message. So, Ms D brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint. He said BG had made Ms D aware of other 
policies available to her, but he thought shed become an inert customer from the 2018 
renewal  that is, Ms D didnt engage with BG about the price of her policy at renewal. 
He recommended that BG refund the difference between her new policy premium and her 
renewal policy premiums from 2018 onwards. Our investigator noted that the new policy had 
a £60 excess whereas the previous policy didnt. So, he proposed that BG deduct any 
excess charges that Ms D wouldve incurred had she been placed on the new policy sooner. 
Further to this, our investigator proposed £100 compensation for the service shortfalls he 
identified and recommended that BG pay interest on the refund due to Ms D.
BG didnt agree. It said Ms D had been given all the information she needed to look at 
alternative policies, so it wasn't responsible for her decision to remain on the same policy for 
13 years. BG also said it took many risk factors into consideration when pricing her policy, 
and length of custom wasn't one of them.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to partly uphold 
Ms Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Renewal premium
For me to uphold Ms Ds complaint, Id have to be satisfied that the evidence shows BG, 
more likely than not, increased her premium just because shed been a customer for a long 
time. BG provided assurance that its pricing model prohibits a premium increase based 
solely on customer loyalty. Even so, Ive looked at the evidence and reasons it gave for the 
increase to determine whether the premium increase looked unfair.
BG said the premium increase was based on Ms Ds risk, including the boiler age and 
number of claims. I wont include a detailed breakdown of the premium changes each year 
because Im aware both Ms D and BG have seen the information Im relying on. Instead, Ill 
summarise what Ive seen.
From the renewal in 2010 to that in 2018, Ms Ds premium fluctuated within an overall £109 
increase. On four occasions the premium went up at renewal. On four occasions the 
premium went down. So, up to 2018, the evidence doesnt point to BG increasing the 
premium because of Ms Ds lack of engagement at renewal.
The biggest single premium increase was for the 2019 policy, increasing by £71 from the 
year before. 
The premium increased by £13 for each of the following two years. Then, in 2022, it went up 
by £55, which is when Ms D complained to BG.
Having identified those two key points where Ms Ds premium increased more than might be 
expected  2019 and 2022  Ive considered the evidence BG provided to explain the 
increase. BG said the number of claims and the boiler age were the two risk factors which 
changed from previous years. Looking at BGs calculation of Ms Ds premium, Im satisfied 
that claims and boiler age are the only two risk factors which changed notably. 
The claims history shows that BG attended to Ms Ds boiler on several occasions in the year 
before the 2019 renewal. BG said it only includes claims in its risk calculation which are 
clearly separate reported faults. That is, it doesnt class a return visit within a fixed timeframe 
as a new claim, but reporting the same or similar problem months later would be a new 
claim. I note that at least three visits were classed as separate claims leading up to the 2019 
renewal. Before the 2022 renewal, there were two separate claims. Therefore, Im satisfied 
that BG has shown that its premium calculation based on the claims risk factor reflected the 
claims history.
For clarity, Ive disregarded any annual boiler service visits.
Ms Ds boiler was around 25 years old. Given the age of the boiler, and BGs claims history 
evidence showing repeated faults, its unlikely the risk of her boiler developing a fault 
wouldve decreased. So, I dont think its unreasonable that BG changed the risk factor to 
reflect the age of the boiler, which in turn led to an increased premium. 
The risk factor for repeat custom/renewals didnt change at all over the years, which tells me 
BG didnt increase Ms Ds premium purely because she remained a loyal customer. 
 
Alternative policies
Ive thought about Ms Ds complaint about BG not providing details of other policies available 
to her. To uphold this element of her complaint, Id need to see that BG didnt give any 
information about other policies and that Ms D was financially disadvantaged by that.
In its renewal letters, BG:
gave details of how to contact it to discuss other policy options;
advised Ms D to check whether the policy remained suitable for her needs;
said other insurers may provide similar policies at a lower premium, andsuggested shopping around. 
The following is an example of the wording included on the first page of Ms Ds renewal 
documents:
You can see how your renewal price has been worked out on page 3. 
Thanks for staying with us - we really appreciate it. You have been with us a
number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a
better price if you shop around. Please also check youre still happy with the
cover youre getting with us and if anythings changed That way, youll only pay for the 
cover you need.
To change your cover, access your online accountwhere you can take a look at what 
other options we can offer you. 
In reaching my provisional decision Ive taken into consideration all the evidence available to 
me, which includes Ms Ds confirmation that she had an ongoing awareness of matters 
relating to rising policy prices for inert customers. Ive also noted her comment about 
choosing to pay the premium over other things rather than risk being without heating. That 
said, it remained BGs responsibility to make sure Ms D was aware of her options at 
renewal. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied BG provided sufficient information to 
make Ms D aware that other policies were available to her.
Moving on to the issue of financial detriment, Ive looked at the policy Ms D had originally 
and the one she moved to after contacting BG about cheaper policies.
Original policy
Ms Ds original policy didnt have an excess charge. So, its reasonable to think she 
benefitted from the knowledge that she could report any problems with her central heating 
and boiler without incurring any additional charges. Ms D said having a reliable source of 
heating was important to her due to health conditions, so it may be that shed have wanted 
that reassurance. Ms D didnt have to pay callout charges for any of the visits Ive 
mentioned. 
New policy
In 2022, Ms D accepted BGs offer of a new policy, similar to the one she had before but with 
a lower premium. The new policy had a £60 excess fee. Thinking again about Ms Ds 
circumstances, if shed been on that policy sooner, each time she called BG to attend to her 
broken boiler she wouldve been at risk of incurring the excess fee. While the fee was only 
payable for new problems, until BG attended to the reported fault Ms D wouldnt have known 
whether shed be incurring an excess fee. Given the age of her boiler, its reasonable to 
assume that shed experience more faults, so it seems Ms D has made a clear choice to 
accept more risk at this point in terms of potential excess fees for call outs to new problems. 
Based on what Ive said here, I cant reasonably conclude that Ms D suffered a significant 
financial loss by staying with the same policy rather than switching to another of BGs 
policies. She mentioned options available to her with other companies at a much lower 
premium, yet she remained with BG. This suggests to me that she was aware of her options 
and made a clear choice about her policy.  
Overall, I think BG provided sufficient evidence to show that the factors which affected the 
premium were claims and boiler risk. The evidence shows that the risk factor for customer 
loyalty remained the same throughout, therefore, I cant fairly say that BG increased the premium because Ms D stayed on the same policy. I dont plan to ask BG to refund any 
payments.
Compensation
After BG looked into Ms Ds complaint, it sent her a final response letter not upholding her 
complaint. Ms D found it unprofessional. 
Ive looked at the letter and I agree with Ms D. I consider the tone inappropriate, dismissive 
and rude, and the content doesnt address the key issues of her complaint in any depth. I 
find this unacceptable. BG shouldve provided Ms D with a full and proper response to her 
concerns. In failing to do so, BG caused Ms D inconvenience and upset because she felt the 
need to contact BG again to try to get answers to her questions.
In light of this evidence of poor service, I said I was intending to require BG to pay Ms D 
£100 compensation by way of apology.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Ms D didnt accept my provisional findings. She raised several points which Ill address in my 
findings, below.
BG had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold Ms Ds complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing to Ms D, but I havent seen anything in the evidence, or her further comments, 
to show that BG increased her premium because of her loyalty.
Online quotes
Ms D pointed out that shed found a cheaper policy online with BG, not with other suppliers. I 
understand why she thinks that means BG charged her unfairly.
Ive thought again about Ms Ds complaint in light of this correction, but I cant say it makes a 
difference. Thats because, whether or not the quotes were from BG, the premium she 
compared with was based on being a new customer with a policy excess. So, her 
comparison was not conducted on a like-for-like policy as an existing customer.
Ms D said she hadnt incurred call out fees equivalent to the price difference between her 
existing policy and the online quote. Taking out a more expensive policy with less risk was a 
decision Ms D made. The benefit to her wouldve been the knowledge that she could claim 
without incurring call-out fees. I cant fairly say that BG was at fault just because Ms D didnt 
need enough repairs to warrant the policy she bought.Postal renewals
Ms D said BG knew shed taken out a policy which wasn't managed online, therefore any 
renewal offers showing cheaper policies shouldve been sent by post.
Ive looked again at the renewal letters BG sent to Ms D. They include details of four 
different types of contact method  email, post, phone call and textphone. I also note that on 
the page where the alternative policies are listed, the renewal letter says:
We're here if you need us
If you'd like any help in reviewing your existing cover and deciding what's best for you just 
call us free on (telephone number given) and we'll be happy to discuss your choices.
The renewal letters changed over the years in line with regulatory requirements, so there will 
be some differences in wording. But, overall, Im satisfied that the evidence shows BG 
provided sufficient information to make Ms D aware that she could ask for a different policy 
and without needing online access. 
Policy premium
Ms D provided another copy of the policy premiums charged over the years and said the 
price didnt go down at all.
Its fair to say the policy premium never went below the price at inception, and I wouldnt 
necessarily expect it to. Thats because BG will likely have factored in discounts for her as a 
new customer. But the price was lower on four occasions than in the previous year. For 
example, the premium for year five was less than it had been in the previous three years.
As the price went down as well as up, this indicates BG didnt charge more because of her 
loyalty.
Correspondence
Ms D said she didnt receive any other correspondence from BG after its unprofessional 
letter in response to her complaint. She said if BG had replied sooner she couldve changed 
her policy sooner and saved money. 
BGs records show that it sent the final response letter around three months after Ms D first 
complained. Ms D complained about the letter and BG responded by phone call just a few 
days later. BGs records show it agreed with Ms D about the tone of the final response, but it 
stood by the underlying message. And the records show that it was here that Ms D changed 
her policy. 
So, I agree there was a delay of just over three months from Ms Ds original complaint to 
BGs final response. Taking into consideration the requirement for BG to issue a response 
within eight weeks, the avoidable delay is just over a month. During that time Ms D was free 
to change her policy. I havent seen anything to indicate that BG was responsible for any 
additional premiums during the course of Ms Ds complaint. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that my requirement for BG to pay £100 by way of apology for its 
response to Ms D is fair and reasonable. 
Missed breakdown cover offer
Ms Ds final point is that she feels BG has shown bias because she missed out on free 
breakdown cover when she joined British Gas as an energy customer. This part of Ms Ds 
complaint is about British Gas Retail as her energy supplier and falls outside my remit. I can 
only consider her complaint about the home emergency insurance policy provided by British 
Gas Insurance Limited.  Therefore, I wont respond to this point.In summary, the evidence shows BG increased Ms Ds premium notably on two occasions. 
Both of those renewals directly followed instances of repeated claims. The evidence 
confirms that the only risk factor changes were for claims and boiler age. The risk factor for 
repeat custom/renewals remained the same. Therefore, Im satisfied that the evidence 
suggests BG didnt charge Ms D an increased premium because of her loyalty. I dont 
uphold this part of Ms Ds complaint.
However, BGs final response to Ms D was inappropriate and in recognition of that, Im 
satisfied compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Ds 
complaint in part and British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms D £100 compensation by way of apology for the service shortfalls when 
responding to her complaint about her policy premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman