DRN-4276258
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt allocate his 
money to his accounts as hed instructed.
What happened
In April 2023, Mr F raised a complaint with Virgin because he was unhappy that they hadnt 
allocated £6,000 that hed transferred into Virgin as hed requested. Mr F had wanted £5,000 
to be placed into his saving account, which offered a higher rate of interest than his current 
account. But Virgin placed all £6,000 of his money into his current account, meaning that it 
incurred a lower rate of interest than should have been that case.
Virgin responded to Mr F and explained that it their accounts were self-managed, meaning 
that once the £6,000 was received into the current account, it was Mr Fs responsibility to 
have moved £5,000 from his current account to his savings account if hed wanted to do so. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Virgin had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has explained that he held a conversation with a member of Virgins staff before he 
transferred the £6,000 into Virgin and told them that he wanted £5,000 of that money to be 
allocated to his savings account. And Mr F has further explained that Virgins staff member 
confirmed that his money would be allocated as he was requesting.
Virgin question whether the conversation Mr F held with their staff member went as Mr F 
contends. And theyve confirmed that their doubts are founded on the fact that their accounts 
are self-managed, meaning that its the responsibility of the account holder to move money 
from one account to another if they want to. 
Because of this, Virgin feel its more likely that Mr F was told he could move £5,000 to his 
savings account if he wanted to, rather than that £5,000 would be moved by Virgin  without 
an instruction at that time  once the £6,000 was received into Mr Fs current account.
In circumstances such as this, where the positions of the complainant and the respondent 
contradict one another, but where no direct evidence is available to confirm either which 
position is the correct one, I have to decide  on balance, and in consideration of all the 
information presented to me  which of the two positions I feel is most likely to be correct.
In this instance, I find Virgins position to be most persuasive. This is because Virgins 
accounts are self-managed. And I feel its unlikely that a Virgin member of staff would have 
confirmed to Mr F that they could move his money between his accounts without an 
instruction given to them to do so at a time when that instruction could be carried out  i.e. 
after the £6,000 was received into Mr Fs Virgin current account. And I feel that if Mr F did 
believe he could pre-instruct Virgin to allocate his money between his accounts, that its most 
likely that Mr F misunderstood the information Virgins staff member was giving him. 
Additionally, as the account holder, its Mr Fs responsibility to monitor his accounts. And this 
means that when the £6000 was received into his Virgin current account, it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to have understood that Virgin hadnt moved £5,000 to his savings account as 
he was expecting, and to have instructed the movement of that £5,000 himself.
All of which means that I dont feel that Virgin have acted unfairly as Mr F contends here. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take 
any further or alternative action.
If I felt that Mr F had given an instruction to Virgin following the receipt of the £6,000 into his 
current account that Virgin had failed to adhere to, then I would almost certainly find 
differently here. But I have no evidence that this was the case, and I dont believe its likely to 
have happened. Rather, I feel that Mr F may have come to an incorrect understanding that 
his money would be moved without an immediately actionable instruction from him to do so 
following the receipt of that money into his current account, and that the non-movement of 
his money was then unfortunately compounded by Mr F not monitoring his Virgin accounts.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman