DRN-3832856
The complaint
Mr R complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) delayed handling his claim under his 
home insurance following an escape of water in his bathroom.
What happened
Mr R bought home insurance with Zurich in January 2021. In April of that same year, Mr R 
made a claim under his policy for a leak coming from his bathroom which was dripping onto 
his kitchen hob. His policy provided cover up to £5,000 to trace and access the leak, so 
Zurich asked Mr R to get quotes.
Due to problems with his first builder, it was June 2021 when Mr R supplied Zurich with the 
costing, which included a receipt for the purchase of a new shower enclosure, shower tray 
and tiles, and a quote for labour.
On receipt of the evidence, Zurich asked Mr R to provide further information about the leak. 
It asked for photos showing the bathroom and kitchen damage, and evidence of the source 
of the leak.
Mr R told Zurich that his kitchen wasn't damaged. And he said it had agreed for him to go 
through the bathroom to source the leak rather than through the kitchen ceiling, of which he 
had recorded evidence. Mr R said information about the leak could be obtained from his 
contractor and Zurich had the phone number.
During the following weeks, Zurich asked Mr R for more information to validate his claim, 
and he complained that it hadnt dealt with his claim promptly in line with regulation. Zurich 
issued its final response to Mr Rs claim on 22 July 2021 explaining that the terms and 
conditions of the policy state it will only pay for trace and access costs incurred for locating 
the source of the damage which are agreed in advance. Zurich said it hadnt agreed the 
costs, so Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Mr R continued to complain to Zurich about the ongoing delays and its request for 
unnecessary information. He didnt think its questions in relation to his ownership of the 
property were appropriate. Zurich issued a further final response letter on 30 September 
2021, and it agreed to us considering the two complaints as a whole.
Our investigator didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong. She explained that the delay in 
considering the claim up to and after its July response was due to Zurich having to wait for 
information from Mr R. And she didnt think Zurich had asked inappropriate questions to try 
to validate the claim. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R didnt agree. He said Zurich had to respond to his claim in line with regulations and it 
had failed to do so. Further, he said the delays continued, and maintained that Zurich had 
asked him unnecessary questions, which he said was evidenced in the video recordings.
To resolve his complaint, Mr R wanted Zurich to settle his claim in line with the Insurance Act 
2015; pay for his loss of earnings while dealing with the claim; compensate him, and pay 
interest on the repair costs hed already paid.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive decided to issue a provisional decision so that Mr R has a final opportunity to provide the 
video evidence he has. Ill explain.
When making his claim under his policy, Mr Rs responsibility was to show that hed suffered 
loss because of an insured peril. The peril, here, was an escape of water, which he believed 
to be from his bathroom, dripping into his kitchen. For clarity, Mr R confirmed his kitchen 
wasn't damaged.
Because the leak couldnt be identified without causing some damage to his home, Zurich 
confirmed that he had cover of up to £5,000 to pay for any damage caused when locating 
the source of the leak. So, if access to the leak was gained through the kitchen ceiling, the 
cover would pay for the ceiling repairs. If access was gained through the bathroom floor, that 
damage would be covered.
Delays
As Mr R argued that Zurich had agreed to the work in the bathroom, Zurich asked him to 
provide evidence in the form of a leak identification report and photos. Mr R provided Zurich 
with his plumbers phone number for it to obtain confirmation of the source of the leak.
As I said at the beginning of my provisional decision, its Mr Rs responsibility to show that he 
suffered loss as a result of an insured peril. Its not Zurichs responsibility to track down that 
information on his behalf. So, I cant say that Zurich has acted unreasonably by asking Mr R 
to provide the evidence to support his claim.
Because Mr R didnt provide the information, Zurich hasnt been in a position to consider his 
claim.  
When Zurich issued its first final response to Mr Rs complaint about delays, the claim had 
been ongoing for three months. Zurichs log of events show that it had contact with Mr R on 
at least five occasions in the first two months, chasing the trace and access quotes. Zurich 
received Mr Rs complaint about the delays less than a week after receiving his quotes. 
Id expect Zurich to consider the claim evidence promptly, but I dont regard Mr Rs complaint 
justified after it had the evidence less than a week.
Trace and access
This is where the next part of the dispute arose. Mr R said Zurich told him to go ahead with 
tracing the source of the leak, and that he could rip out his shower to do so rather than go 
through the kitchen ceiling. Zurich denies that and says it asked for quotes for the trace and 
access work first.
Both parties say they have video evidence of this conversation, but neither has provided that 
evidence for my consideration, despite repeated requests. So, I must base my decision on 
the evidence I have before me, and what I consider is more likely to have happened. The policy states cover is available for:
Escape of water or oil including tracing and accessing a leak in your home, and repairing 
any damage caused to walls, flooring or ceilings during the search up to £5,000
The policy confirms that it doesnt cover:
Any fees you have incurred without our permission
So, based on this information, its more likely than not that Zurich simply asked Mr R to get 
quotes for the trace and access work. And in the absence of evidence to the contrary, its 
unlikely that Zurich wouldve agreed to Mr R removing his entire bathroom suite, replacing 
the shower tray and enclosure with new, and retiling the rest of the bathroom before refitting 
his basin and toilet in order to source the leak.
Information requests
The dispute is ongoing because Zurich wants information from Mr R to enable it to validate 
the claim. For example, it asked for the leak detection report, evidence of why the repairs 
involved stripping and fitting the full bathroom, and evidence that Mr R had an insured 
interest in the property. Mr R doesnt think he needs to provide the evidence because he 
lives at the property; Zurich agreed to the bathroom work, and it shouldve contacted his 
plumber for the leak detection report.
Zurich is entitled to seek information from Mr R to assist in its validation of his claim. The 
policy sets out Mr Rs obligations:
What are my [Mr Rs] obligations?
To notify us as soon as possible if you have a claim and provide us with all relevant 
information about the claim
Having considered the questions Zurich asked, and the reasons for asking, Im satisfied that 
it made reasonable requests for information in line with the policy. 
And while Mr R complains about continued delays, resolution of this issue is within his 
control. If he provides Zurich with the information and evidence it asked for, it would be in a 
position to consider his claim. Therefore, I cant reasonably say Zurich caused avoidable 
delays in handling Mr Rs complaint.
In summary, the evidence available to me indicates that Zurich has tried to progress Mr Rs 
claim, but it has been prevented from doing so due to the lack of information made available 
to it. Therefore, Im minded not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. He responded to my request for his copy of 
the video explaining that itd been destroyed during a system crash. And he said Zurich 
didnt provide a copy of the recording because it wouldve shown it in a bad light. Mr R 
repeated his complaint about Zurich failing to settle his trace and access costs in line with 
the policy.
Zurich provided a second copy of the video recording - the first copy wasnt accessible when 
I issued my provisional decision. On request, it also provided the recording of the call when Mr R made his claim for the trace and access costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the call recording and watched the video evidence, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. I wont repeat the detail of the complaint; instead Ill summarise the 
key parts of the evidence now available to me and explain why Ive reached my decision.
Call recording
In this call, Mr R said his plumber would have to take out the bathroom suite and remove 
tiles to access the pipe for repairs. Zurichs agent asked a few times about evidence of the 
damage. Mr R, understandably, said he couldnt evidence the damage until it was accessed, 
which is why he was claiming under the trace and access element of his policy.
However, what is clear to me is that Zurich didnt give permission for Mr R to go ahead with 
the access by removing the bathroom suite. It asked for a breakdown of costs with images of 
the bathroom so it could assess what might be done. Mr R was quite insistent that taking the 
shower out was the only way to access the damage and he said he didnt have time to wait 
for Zurich to approve costs.
After Zurich repeated that it would need to approve the work before any trace and access 
was done, Mr R said hed send the quotation for approval. He asked for the correct email 
address to send it to and confirmed it would be for full removal of the bathroom suite.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence confirms Zurich didnt agree to trace and access by 
removing the shower cubicle.
Video recording
The video was of contact between Zurich and Mr R to discuss the detail of his claim, during 
which Zurich explained why it didnt think the claim costs were justified. Zurich also asked Mr 
R questions about his insured interest in the property. Mr R responded with detail to Zurichs 
questions about the circumstances of his claim, but he responded with no comment to 
questions about his interest in the property. He said he didnt think the questions were 
relevant.
While I understand Mr R didnt think the questions were relevant, Im satisfied that Zurich 
only asked for information in direct relation to his claim. So, I cant reasonably say that 
Zurich did anything wrong here.
In summary, at no point during the call or video recording did Zurich agree to Mr R accessing 
the leak by taking out the shower cubicle, tiles or other bathroom furniture. And Im satisfied 
that it only asked Mr R for information relevant to his claim. So, based on the evidence 
available to me, I see no reason to require Zurich to do any more regarding Mr Rs claim 
unless he provides the information it needs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman