DRN-2260320
The complaint
Mr A complains that CFP Management Limited (CFP) caused avoidable delays when
transferring his pension, resulting in financial loss. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr A completed an application with CFP to transfer his pension to another
provider. That same month CFP wrote to Mr A and explained that they would be writing to
Trustees of the scheme to request some more information and the current transfer value.
CFP confirmed that once in receipt of this information, theyd expect to issue their report
within eight weeks. They explained that if the transfer goes ahead, the time it would take
would be dependent on the Trustee  citing 16 to 26 weeks as a possibility.
On 29 June, the Trustees sent the information requested and confirmation of the Cash
Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) to CFP, guaranteed until 14 September 2017. The
guaranteed statement of entitlement confirmed the CETV was £335,667.83.
In order to preserve the guaranteed transfer value, the Trustee requested that the below be
sent to them by 14 September:
Mr As completed and signed application to the trustee form;
The relevant part of the receiving scheme warranty form (completed and signed as 
appropriate);
Mr As completed and signed transfer questionnaire;
Written confirmation that Mr A had been provided appropriate, independent advice; 
and
An original copy of Mr As birth certificate (and marriage certificate if applicable).
Around the same time, CFP were in discussions with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
This resulted in them requesting additional information from all of their clients. On 3 July they
contacted Mr A requesting further information. Which he provided the following day.
CFP have said they prioritised certain clients over others, resulting in delays in dealing with
Mr As transfer. And on 2 October, they provided Mr A with an update of the current position
with reference to the review of his pension. At this point Mr A requested all of the information
CFP had pertaining to his transfer, which they provided.
He requested a new CETV, which took longer than expected to be issued. But, on
15 May 2018, Mr A finally had his funds transferred. At this point the CETV had increased to
£343,116.21. In raising his complaint, Mr A explained that he felt CFPs delays had caused a
financial loss. Stating he wasnt able to invest as planned in September 2017.
CFP disagreed with Mr As claims that their actions caused him any financial loss.
In their final response letter (FRL), they explained that he could have taken steps, prior to
the eventual transfer in May 2018, to obtain a new CETV (once the initial on had expired),
sooner than he did. CFP stated, they couldnt accept liability for any movement in Mr As
CETV.
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to us, and stated he had lost out financially.
Mr A calculated his loss as being £14,269.33. Our investigator concluded that CFP hadnt
acted fairly. And to put things right he explained that CFP should calculate the growth Mr A
would have received if hed been able to transfer £335,667.83 by 14 September 2017. And
the investigator said the calculation should be from 14 September to 15 May 2018, when the
funds were transferred. Mr As pension should then be compensated for any difference in
value, deducting the £7,448.38 growth in CETV Mr A had due to the delay.
CFP disagreed with this outcome. They explained they werent aware of the CETV Mr A had
and theyd only received the new CETV on 29 June 2017. And with reference to the
prioritisation of other clients, they explained they were following the FCAs wishes to review
[their] process and look at previously issued recommendations before making any new
recommendations. 
They also explained that they contacted Mr A on 17 August to provide
him with an update, giving him the option to use an alternative pension transfer specialist,
but he chose to remain with CFP. As no agreement has been reached, this has been passed
to me for a final decision.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
All the requested information needed to have been received by the Trustee, no later than
14 September 2017, in order to ensure the preservation of the CETV.
CFP have pointed out that Mr A didnt informed them that hed already been provided the
CETV. The suggestion being this contributed to the delays as they had to request a current
CETV. Having reviewed the evidence, I do not agree. The CETV Mr A had, had expired the
previous year. Therefore, CFP would have needed to request a current one anyway.
Further, when CFP contacted the Trustees in May 2017, they requested further information
 including a current transfer value. They were clearly requesting information in addition
to evidence of the current transfer value. So, they would have had to contact the Trustees in
any event. So, I do not think Mr A not having made it apparent to CFP that he had an
expired CETV, contributed to the delay.
CFP had all the information they needed to carry out the instructions given by Mr A, by
4 July 2017. Therefore, by CFPs own approximate timescales (provided in their letter dated
25 May 2017), they should have completed their report within eight weeks from 4 July. This
would have been 29 August, allowing for the August bank holiday.
As stated, 14 September was the expiration date. This is two and a half weeks after
29 August. I am of the view that it would have been possible to get the information needed
sent in time.
The reason for this date being missed, was due to delays cause by CFP. In their FRL, CFP
acknowledge that by prioritising clients that had already received recommendations, dealing
with Mr As transfer was delayed. But then concluded that they do not uphold Mr As
complaint.
More recently, theyve told us that their decision to prioritise other clients was due to the FCA
requesting additional checks be put in place with regards to their pension transfer process.
CFP have said they informed Mr A of this on 3 July. On 17 August, CFP say they providedMr A with an update. And in doing so, they believe this gave him an opportunity to take his
transfer to an alternative pension transfer specialist. I would disagree that providing an
update four weeks before the guarantee was due to expire, was adequate notice for Mr A to
seek alternative arrangements. And it was a further six and a half weeks before CFP made
contact with Mr A again, on 2 October.
Not being able to carry out the task they were instructed to, even with the requests made by
the FCA, is the responsibility of CFP in these particular circumstances. So, whether their 
delays caused any financial loss needs to be considered.
CFP have said they cannot be held responsible for the changes in the investment markets.
And I would agree. However, if CFPs delays resulted in financial loss to Mr A, they would
need to put that right. And I therefore agree with the investigator that CFP havent acted
fairly in this regard. No attempts have been made to calculate any potential loss.
The CETV received on 29 June stated £335,667.83, and this was valid until
14 September 2017. I have already explained that there was enough time to have met this
deadline. Consequently, CFP will need to put things right if Mr A has suffered a financial
loss.
Financial loss
CFP should calculate any investment growth Mr A would have received if the transfer had
gone ahead as instructed. CFP should compare the value of this plan had the transfer taken
place on 14 September 2017 until the transfer out in May 2018. Against the actual value of
the plan on 15 May 2018.
If there is a loss, and Mr A hasnt taken his benefit from 2018, then CFP should make the
payment into Mr As fund. If Mr A has taken his benefit, then the payment should be made
directly to him, allowing for the relevant tax deductions.
In addition to this, CFP should pay to Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
They initially accepted they caused the delay in their FRL but refused to uphold the
complaint. In addition, CFP havent carried out a calculation to see if their actions caused
financial loss to Mr A. I think this was an unfair approach.
Based on the evidence I have received, I think this is a fair outcome. If either party have an
issue with this approach or have additional evidence for me to consider, please let me know
before I issue my final decision.
The response to my provisional decision
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have provided me with further evidence to consider. Therefore, I still think CFP 
should have carried out a calculation to see if their actions resulted in financial loss for Mr A. 
As such, a fair outcome would be for CFP to carry out a loss calculation in line with the 
approach set out in my provisional decision, shown above. In addition, CFP should pay £100 
to Mr A, by way of an apology.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct CFP Management Limited to carry out the calculations in line with the above and pay 
Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman