DRN-2252501
complaint
Mr M and Ms N complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined 
their home insurance claim for storm damage to their roof.
background
Mr M and Ms N made a claim for storm damage to their roof and bedroom. RSA appointed a 
surveyor, who reported there were no signs of storm damage to the roof. He noted there was 
a small gutter on the end of the valley which might not be able to cope with the volume of 
water during heavy rainfall, and this could back up and track into the property. He said any 
damage as a result of this would be due to poor design and faulty workmanship. However, 
he confirmed the internal damage had been caused be a one-off incident and should be 
covered.
The internal damage was cash settled under Mr M and Ms Ns accidental damage cover. 
However, they didnt accept RSAs decision to decline their roof repairs. They are of the 
opinion their roof was damaged by a storm. Multiple correspondence was exchanged 
between the parties. Ill summarise the points made.
Mr M and Ms N, and their broker, said:
- They regularly maintain their property and guttering. Photos of the guttering were 
taken by their window cleaner a few days before the incident, which shows the 
guttering and lead valley were clear.
- Theres never been water ingress in the four years they have lived at the property, so 
they dispute the issue was due to poor design or faulty workmanship. The guttering 
has always coped with heavy rainfall, but on the day in question the level of rainfall 
was unprecedented.
- Their builders quote confirmed the rainwater ingress occurred following storm 
conditions, and it set out the repairs required to prevent further damage. 
- Rainwater was later entering the loft area and into the bedroom below, even during 
lighter rainfall, which supports the roof was damaged. Whilst the photos didnt show 
any external damage, the builder noted the issue couldnt be ascertained until the 
tiling and lead valley were lifted.
- The invoice from the builder, following the repairs, confirms that when the valley and 
adjacent tiles were exposed, some of the tiles were found to have been damaged by 
the storm. The water ingress was also found to have occurred at a higher level than 
the guttering.
- The builder identified heavy winds had lifted the tiles, allowing rainwater behind the 
valley and to damage the surrounding area and felt underneath. This led to a 
considerable amount of rainwater entering the property. 
RSA and its surveyor said:
- The builders quote says the valley cant cope with the heavy rainfall, and hes quoted 
for replacing the valley with an alternative material. The cause of the water ingress is 
therefore due to the poor condition/design of the valley/gutter. The builders quote 
and the surveyors photos dont show any signs of storm damage to the roof.
- The builders photos taken during the repairs show no evidence of any disturbance to 
the valley or the valley tiles. The works included the full valley being replaced and the 
felt underneath. All images show the valley to be in situ, and no evidence has been 
provided to show the valley had lifted. The felt underneath the valley would only be 
affected if rainwater had bypassed the valley or tiles. If the felt had to be replaced, 
this indicates it had deteriorated; and this will only be consistent with rainwater 
bypassing the valley over time.
- The builders photos show a single tile with a crack at the point the tiles interlock. The 
tile could have been damaged when the builder stripped back the roof, and its not 
consistent with storm damage. Its also not plausible that this minor crack was 
responsible for the water ingress.
- The surveyors photos show no disturbance to the valley mortar or the moss growth 
on the tile joints, which would be evident if the tiles had lifted in the wind.
- The full refurbishment of the valley indicates a long-term issue. If a single tile cracked 
in the high winds, then that tile would be replaced in isolation. The felt wouldnt perish 
in a matter of days. The extent of work supports the view that there was an inherent 
issue with the valley that allowed water to ingress onto the felt over many months.
Mr M and Ms N remained unhappy, so they referred a complaint to this service. They made 
the following further points:
- It took three days for a contractor to attend under their home emergency assistance 
cover. The contractor hadnt been told it was a three-storey property and didnt have 
the necessary equipment to make a temporary repair. 
- RSAs surveyor was at the property for less than an hour and was mainly completing 
paperwork. He took pictures of the roof from ground level, and he didnt fully access 
the loft.
- The surveyor claimed there were issues with the guttering and poor maintenance. 
However, since the repairs have been completed theres been no leaks and the 
gutter has coped with large amounts of rainfall.
- RSA was informed when the works were being carried out, so it could attend and 
inspect once scaffolding had been erected. However, it chose not to do so.
An investigator here considered the complaint. He was initially persuaded by the information 
Mr M and Ms N had provided. However, on further review, he didnt think RSA had unfairly 
declined their claim. Mr M and Ms N disagreed, and in addition to the above, they made 
these further points:
- They questioned how RSA could accept a claim for storm damage to their bedroom 
but decline where the water ingress originated from, i.e. their roof.- The felt had to be replaced because it was damaged from the considerable amount 
of rainwater getting behind the tiles. If the valley was in a poor condition, the left and 
right sections would have needed replacing; but, only the side nearest to the gable 
end had been damaged, which is where the wind picks up between the properties. 
There are no broken tiles on the other section of the roof, and there has been no 
water ingress in this area.
Because Mr M and Ms N disagreed with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
Ive re-assessed Mr M and Ms Ns complaint and all the evidence with these three questions 
in mind.
Its not disputed that there were storm conditions on the day in question, so Im satisfied the 
first condition has been met. However, in respect of the other two conditions, I havent seen 
anything that persuades me the damage to the roof was typical of storm damage, or the 
storm was the main cause of the damage.
When storm conditions have occurred and a claim for damage has been made, we generally 
expect the insurer to assess the property before declining the claim. Generally speaking, we 
dont consider roof inspections from ground level to be unreasonable; and when no storm 
damage can be identified, its for the insured to show, on balance, that their property was 
damaged by a storm. So, whilst RSAs assumptions about the gutter may not have been 
correct, RSA didnt need to identify the cause of the problem  it only needed to assess 
whether there was storm damage evident. 
Mr M and Ms Ns own builder concluded the issue with the roof couldnt be ascertained until 
the tiling and lead valley had been lifted. So, Im not persuaded that RSAs initial decision to 
decline the roof, following a ground level inspection, was unreasonable.
Mr M and Ms N have provided their builders invoice following the repairs, and that details 
the work undertaken. However, the invoice doesnt describe what damage there was to the 
roof (beyond broken tiles) or how damage occurred. Equally, the quote simply says the 
valley doesnt appear to be coping with the recent heavy rainfall and storms.
Mr M and Ms N say heavy winds had lifted the tiles, and this was the reason rainwater had 
got behind the valley and damaged the surrounding areas. However, RSA says the photos 
taken during the repairs show no signs of disturbance to the tiles or valley; and the repairs 
are consistent with a long-term problem, rather than damage caused by a single event. Having considered the arguments presented, Im not persuaded that damage was caused by 
the high winds. I say this because, neither the builders quote, photos, or invoice supports 
the tiles or valley had lifted. Whilst the photos show the repairs in progress and a chipped 
tile, they dont  in my view  show any obvious signs of storm damage, or even how the 
rainwater was entering the property. 
Even if some tiles had temporarily lifted during the high winds, and some rainwater had got 
behind them, Im not persuaded the damage caused to the roof during that short space of 
time would have required the level of repairs undertaken. Ive certainly seen no expert 
opinion that supports Mr M and Ms Ns theory, and RSAs surveyor has put forward 
persuasive arguments to the contrary.
In my view, Mr M and Ms N havent sufficiently shown their roof was damaged by a storm. 
On balance, Im more persuaded the storm conditions simply highlighted existing problems 
with their roof that had built up over time, and they werent aware there was an issue until 
their bedroom was damaged during a period of high rainfall. So, in conclusion, Im not 
persuaded that the works carried out to the roof were to repair damage caused by an 
insured event, so I dont consider the roof repairs were unfairly declined.
I can understand Mr M and Ms Ns frustration regarding their emergency assistance cover. 
However, even if the internal damage got worse due to not having a temporary repair, the 
internal damage was then covered under their claim. Therefore, I cant reasonably decide 
they were unfairly impacted by what happened when an emergency contractor attended.
I can also understand Mr M and Ms Ns confusion about why RSA accepted their claim for 
the internal damage, but not the external repairs. However, RSA covered the damage to the 
inside of their home under their accidental damage cover, not their storm cover. The policy 
terms explain that the accidental damage coverage covers sudden and unexpected visible 
damage. So, because Mr M and Ms N werent aware of the problem with their roof and the 
internal damage occurred suddenly, RSA covered the internal repairs under the accidental 
damage cover. To be clear, Im not persuaded the external issues occurred suddenly.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Ms N. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman