DRN-4145638
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank Plc failed to apply a gambling block to her debit card.
What happened
Miss M holds a current account with Barclays. In May 2022 a new debit card (ending *6025) 
was issued to her for this account, but Miss M did not start using it straight away, and 
continued to use her old card (ending *6017).
Miss M has suffered with gambling addiction in the past. The Barclays app allows customers 
to add spending controls to their cards. In July 2022, when she was feeling more in control of 
her gambling, Miss M added a control to her old card (*6017) but the gambling control was 
not added to her new card (*6025) at the same time.
In February 2023 Miss Ms mental health deteriorated, and she began to use the new card 
on her account (card *6017) for gambling transactions. Miss M says that if the gambling 
control had been in place on this new card, then she would not have gambled, she wants 
Barclays to reimburse her for at least some of the funds she lost.
Barclays looked into what had happened, it says that the gambling controls on Miss Ms old 
card should have transferred across to the new card when it was created. So it agrees that it 
made an error here, and has paid Miss M £100 to compensate her for what went wrong. But 
Barclays does not think it can be held responsible for the gambling Miss M went on to do 
and so has declined to refund any of the transactions.
Miss M was unhappy with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. They agreed that Barclays 
appeared to have made an error here, but felt that the compensation it had paid was 
appropriate, and did not think Barclays should also reimburse Miss M for her gambling 
payments.
Miss M remained unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as out Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. 
Barclays has agreed that it made an error in not transferring the gambling control to the new 
card, so I wont be commenting on that further. What I will focus on here is whether  in 
failing to transfer that gambling control  it is then reasonable for Barclays to be held 
responsible for Miss Ms gambling payments. 
Both Barclays and Miss M have provided us with various comments and evidence regarding 
what happened here. Ive noted the following key points from what both parties have said:
- While the purpose of the gambling block is to make it more difficult to gamble using 
the account, it is an imperfect tool and not, in my view, enough on its own to flag to 
Barclays that Miss M had a gambling problem that needed monitoring. Miss M did not 
specifically advice Barclays of her issues with gambling until after the payments that 
are in dispute here.
- If the gambling control had been turned on, then it could have been turned off at any 
time by Miss M in her Barclays app.
- Miss M does not appear to have contacted Barclays to let it know that the gambling 
control had not been applied to the new card, and she had the new card for many 
months before she started using it.
- During the period when the gambling control was in place on Miss Ms old card, Miss 
M appears to have continued to gamble using other accounts she held with different 
banks.
I acknowledge that Miss M has said that in December 2022 she took steps to block gambling 
on all those other accounts, but given the history here, and Miss Ms particular 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that if the gambling control had been in place on 
Miss Ms card ending *6017 that would have meant she would not have carried out any 
gambling payments. I also dont consider that Barclays should have stepped in to stop any of 
the transactions in question here given what it knew at the time. It follows that I dont 
consider I can say Barclays is therefore responsible for the loss Miss M experienced.
I do though think it is fair for Barclays to pay Miss M compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by the gambling control not being transferred to the new card. But Im 
satisfied that the £100 Barclays has paid to Miss M is appropriate compensation in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman