DRN-3639402
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Bank of Scotland plcs handling of a missed mortgage payment. 
What happened
Mr Y has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. Monthly payments were taken by direct debit 
from Mr Ys bank account. In December 2021, Bank of Scotland were unable to collect the 
monthly payment. This was because Mr Y had transferred his bank account and his new 
bank didnt set up the direct debit.
Bank of Scotland recorded the missed payment on their systems and contacted Mr Y by text 
about a week and a half later. When Mr Y contacted Bank of Scotland in response to their 
text, there was some confusion about why theyd contacted him. 
In short, after several more phone calls, it was mid-February before Bank of Scotland 
removed the missed payment data from their systems. And a week later that they finally 
addressed another of Mr Ys concerns about any additional interest charged due to the late 
payment.
Mr Y says he found the confusion and uncertainty stressful and frustrating. He thinks the 
service Bank of Scotland provided was poor. And he says he was inconvenienced by having 
to call bank of Scotland on a number of occasions  often repeating information hed 
previously provided  before the matter was resolved.
Mr Y complained to Bank of Scotland. They agreed that the service theyd provided wasnt 
acceptable and £30 in compensation to Mr Y for his trouble and upset.
Mr Y wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought the £30 compensation didnt reflect the inconvenience and distress Mr Y had 
suffered. She thought Bank of Scotland should pay Mr Y £150 compensation in total.
Bank of Scotland agreed to increase the compensation to £150, but Mr Y disagreed with the 
proposed outcome. He thinks the £150 is still insufficient  and he asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the facts. The failed payment was not due to any error or 
omission on the part of Bank of Scotland. But once that had happened, Bank of Scotland 
failed to deal with Mr Ys situation in an acceptable manner. Things were delayed and 
communication was poor at times.
The only question for me then is whether the proposed £150 compensation, suggested by 
our investigator and agreed by Bank of Scotland, is sufficient given the trouble and upset 
Mr Y was caused. I know this will disappoint Mr Y, but Im satisfied the £150 compensation is 
in fact fair and reasonable given the degree of stress and inconvenience he suffered.
Ive taken into account that the initial issue was not of Bank of Scotlands making. Mr Y did 
meet with some confused and unhelpful communication when he contacted the bank. And 
he did have to call them several times  and repeat himself  to get the issue resolved.
But the matter was entirely resolved within around five or six weeks of the initial contact from 
Bank of Scotland. Thats longer than it might have taken, but Mr Ys stress and 
inconvenience lasted only for that period of time.
I also bear in mind that Mr Ys perfectly legitimate concerns here were nonetheless limited. 
They were primarily about how soon the adverse record  on Bank of Scotlands internal 
systems only  would be removed and whether he might be charged a marginal amount of 
additional interest after the missed payment.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied that £150 is sufficient compensation for Mr Ys 
trouble and upset.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that the £30 compensation initially offered by Bank of Scotland 
was insufficient. And Im going to require them to pay the £150 compensation our 
investigator suggested.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc must pay Mr Y £150 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman