DRN-3351374
The complaint
Mr T complains that the advice he was given by TenetConnect Limited to transfer the 
benefits of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP) in 2015 
was unsuitable. TenetConnect were known as LEBC Group Limited at the time of the advice, 
but for clarity Ill refer to them as TenetConnect throughout.
What happened
In 2015 Mr T had a deferred OPS from a previous employer [X]. This OPS had a Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £53,132 but X were offering a time-limited enhanced 
value of £55,788 should Mr T decide to transfer it to another arrangement. X had engaged 
TenetConnect to advise the scheme members about any possible transfer.
Mr T approached TenetConnect for advice on 5 August 2015. The enhanced CETV offer 
expired on 11 August 2015.
Mr T completed a fact find which showed his current personal circumstances. In summary:
He was aged 51, married with three dependent children, and in excellent health.
He was employed with an annual salary of £210,000.
He wanted to retire aged 60.
He had joint savings with his wife of £150,000.
His previous investment experience was limited to savings and ISAs.
He had three other occupational pensions in addition to the one provided by X.
He then answered some questions regarding his attitude to taking risks with his finances. 
The result of these answers indicated he had a High Medium attitude to risk (ATR), but it is 
documented that following a discussion this was reduced to Low Medium, as it was felt this 
better reflected his attitude at the time.
On 6 August 2015, as a result of the fact find, TenetConnect produced a Pension Transfer 
Analysis (commonly known as a TVAS), to show whether it would be beneficial to Mr T to 
transfer the benefits from his OPS. It also made a personal recommendation in the form of a 
suitability report.
Mr Ts objectives were identified as follows:
Provision for a partner and dependents pension after retirement.
Retire aged 60; and
maximise his tax-free cash (TFC) at retirement.
TenetConnect recommended to Mr T that he transfer his OPS benefits to a PPP. The 
benefits of this transfer were documented as follows:
There will be greater flexibility in an individual plan to enable you to control the way
benefits are paid to you at retirement.
There is a better chance of increasing your pension fund within an individual plan
subject to prevailing annuity rates.
You will have greater investment control and have access to a range of funds or
lifestyle investment options to suit your needs.
The tax-free cash lump sum is likely to be better in an individual plan, at both your
normal retirement age of 65 as well as age 60. This would give you greater freedom
to choose how best to draw income.
The lump sum death benefits are considerably better within an individual
arrangement. The overall death benefits are considerably better within an individual
arrangement from outset.
The annual charges for the PPP totalled 0.35% of the fund value. Mr T accepted 
TenetConnects advice and the transfer was completed on 14 September 2015.
In November 2019, Mr T, through a representative, complained to TenetConnect that the 
advice it gave him in 2015 was unsuitable. But TenetConnect didnt uphold his complaint. It 
said the advice to transfer his OPS benefits, and the funds it recommended, met his 
objectives, and was therefore suitable.
But Mr T didnt agree so complained to our service.
Our investigator initially thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought, in summary
Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower value overall than the OPS 
on retirement.
Mr T had a moderate ability to absorb some losses on his pension (he had £75,000 
savings), but that didnt mean he shouldve been put in that position in the first place.
The benefits that Mr T would receive in retirement from a personal pension would be 
dependent on its performance, and this was outweighed by the guaranteed nature of 
the benefits provided by the OPS.
Comparing the critical yield to the relevant discount rate showed it was unlikely he 
would be better off
TenetConnect hadnt properly compared the reduced benefits from the OPS and the 
PPP should they be taken early at age 60, which Mr T wanted to do.
In order to redress any losses Mr T had suffered due to being given unsuitable advice by 
TenetConnect, the investigator thought it should undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the pension review methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 
October 2017.
TenetConnect didnt agree. It said, in summary;
A difference of only 0.7% between the critical yield and the discount rate didnt mean 
it was unachievable. The last 1,3 & 5 year cumulative performance showed a return 
of 8.81%, 15.79% and 28.97% respectively. This showed the critical yield was 
realistically achievable.
Advisers couldnt really be expected to be aware of the published discount rates, so 
they werent necessarily relevant.
The TVAS provided to Mr T gave clear comparisons between the projected benefits 
of the OPS and PPP at age 60.Recommendations taking into account projected growth are the industry norm and a 
reasonable position to take. Mr T wanted to maximise his TFC and the transfer 
allowed him to do that.
Mr T had a reasonably healthy capacity for loss, as he had three other DB pensions 
and £150,000 in savings
The transfer was suitable for Mr Ts needs and he was provided with full information 
at every stage.
As a result of TenetConnects submission, our investigator obtained further information 
about the three other OPS pensions that Mr T had. She then thought overall that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She thought that although the required growth in the PPP 
investments (the critical yield) to match the probable growth in the value of the OPS was 
unlikely to be achieved, this was outweighed by the benefits of the PPP as it met his 
objectives. And because he had three other valuable OPS and savings upon which he could 
rely in his retirement, he had a very high capacity to absorb any potential investment loss in 
the PPP. 
Mr T, through his representative, didnt agree. He said, in summary:
The time taken to produce the TVAS and advice document (one day) showed the 
advice was templated in nature rather than personalised.
TenetConnect hadnt sufficient information from Mr T regarding his other pension 
provision, including his position with respect to the Lifetime Allowance (LTA).
There was sufficient provision for his partner and dependents in the transferred OPS 
and his other pensions, and had these benefits been explored and explained to Mr T 
he may have taken the view that his current arrangement was sufficient. 
Mr T wouldve been able to retire at 60 and take benefits from the transferred OPS, 
so the transfer wasnt necessary to meet this objective.
When taking into account his other cash savings, an increase of only around £9,000 
in the available TFC at 60 wasnt enough to justify the risk in transferring, and the 
purpose for maximising the TFC wasnt documented.
Had Mr T not transferred, he couldve easily afforded to purchase a term assurance 
policy designed to provide a lump sum equivalent to the increase in death benefits 
offered by a personal pension, without taking the risks associated with the transfer.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. And 
having reviewed all the available evidence and arguments, I was minded to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint, for generally the same reasons as the investigator had in their initial view. So I 
wrote to both Mr T and TenetConnect, explaining my provisional thoughts, and inviting them 
to make any further submissions that they wished me to consider before I made a final 
decision. 
TenetConnect replied and reiterated that in its view Mr T took no real risk from transferring 
as he was already financially secure having three substantial DB pensions. Not transferring 
wouldve meant not being able to leave a legacy for his wife and children, which was his 
primary objective. By transferring Mr T was able to leave the pension pot to his family as he 
saw fit, whilst his other provisions would disappear, short of any spouses pension. It went on 
to say that it thought the critical yield was very much achievable, and there was effectively 
no risk in the transfer as Mr T didnt need to draw an income from it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time, and carefully considered the additional submissions made 
by TenetConnect. 
Within the FCA handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time TenetConnect advised Mr T 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like TenetConnect, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for 
their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk 
beyond their investment objective and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, 
TenetConnect needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its 
advice met Mr Ts objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out 
the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following: 
A firm must: 
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits; 
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision; 
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and 
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice. 
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. COBS 19.1.7 also said: 
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of TenetConnects advice to Mr T in the context of 
the above requirements.
And COBS 19.1.8 sets out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and 
3) a summary of any other material information.
Mr T had approached TenetConnect as it was the business engaged by the administrators of 
his OPS to provide advice to its members who were considering transferring their benefits 
out. And in accordance with COBS 9.2.2R TenetConnect asked Mr T to complete its fact 
find, setting out his circumstances and objectives. The latter were recorded as follows:
Provision for a partner and dependent pension after retirement.
Retire aged 60; and
maximise his TFC at retirement
But I dont think the recorded objectives contain enough detail, and they are what is 
considered stock motives. They didnt contain details specific to Mr T and explain why he 
had those particular objectives, especially his apparent wish to maximise the available TFC.
And TenetConnect considers the transfer was in Mr Ts best interest because it met his 
particular needs and objectives at the time. Whilst I accept that there were some benefits in 
transferring, the transfer had to be considered in the context of Mr Ts circumstances and 
objectives, and weighed up against the advantages and disadvantages of staying in the 
OPS.
As can be seen from the above, the presumption that TenetConnect shouldve used when 
looking at Mr Ts situation was that the transfer of his pension benefits from the OPS to a 
new PPP would not have been in his best interests. It wouldve then needed to consider 
whether, given the information it had gathered and the analysis it had performed, there were 
compelling reasons why it might be appropriate to recommend that Mr T does in fact make 
the transfer. 
I think the right starting point for that analysis would be consideration of the TVAS that 
TenetConnect produced. That report assessed the investment performance Mr T would 
need to achieve in order to replicate the guaranteed benefits he would be giving up by 
agreeing to a transfer. So Ive looked carefully at the conclusions that were presented in that 
report. 
In its analysis, TenetConnect calculated the growth required in the PPP to match the defined 
benefit OPS at the point of retirement. This is called the critical yield. But as future 
investment growth in a PPP isnt guaranteed, TenetConnect wouldve had to predict, as far 
as it could, whether it thought this growth was reasonably achievable. Taking into account Mr Ts marital status, his recorded objectives to retire at 60 and to take 
the maximum available TFC, the critical yield required to match the defined benefit (DB) 
OPS at retirement was 5.2% per year. The advice was given during the period when the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. 
TenetConnect is entirely correct to say that the discount rate wasnt part of the advice 
process, and it wasnt required to take it into account. Whilst I agree businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they do provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable.
When the advice was given, the relevant discount rate was 4.5% per year for 13 years to 
retirement and 3.9% for Mr Ts objective of retirement at 60. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year. 
And using the accepted industry mid-range growth projections for the fund at the time, 
TenetConnect showed in the TVAS that Mr Ts projected annual income from the 
recommended PPP would likely only provide an annual income of £1,776. But the OPS 
provided a guaranteed annual income of £2,108.
So taking this into account, along with his ATR and term to retirement, I think Mr T was likely 
to receive a lower income from the PPP than he wouldve if hed retained his benefits in his 
OPS. But I also think this was made clear within the TVAS. Im satisfied that it gave an 
unambiguous break down of the projected income at retirement at ages 60 and 65, and it is 
likely that Mr T wouldve been aware that he may be giving up a guaranteed income on 
retirement higher than would likely be achieved in a PPP should he accept the advice to 
transfer. 
But just because the information was clearly laid out doesnt mean the advice was suitable, 
nor does it excuse TenetConnect from its obligation to provide suitable advice. And what 
was not made clear, was why it was suitable for him to transfer the value of his OPS, with 
the guarantees which came with it, into a PPP when he was 51. After all he didnt want to 
take the benefits until he was 60. So in transferring, he was exposing the value of his 
pension to nine years of investment risk and the associated charges in the PPP, whereas he 
couldve remained in the OPS scheme, with no fund reduction due to charges, retaining his 
guaranteed benefits, and then reviewing his options when he either reached 60 years of age, 
or was closer to it.
But the recorded objectives, albeit generic, stated that Mr T was more concerned with 
maximising the available TFC at aged 60, and improving the provision for his wife and 
children upon his retirement. And the TVAS shows that both of these were projected to be 
significantly improved should he transfer into a PPP. And TenetConnect have reiterated its 
position that not transferring wouldve meant Mr T not being able to leave a legacy for his 
wife and children, which was his primary objective. It said that by transferring, Mr T was able 
to leave the pension pot to his family as he saw fit, whilst his other provisions would 
disappear, short of any spouses pension
But as Ive said above, Ive not seen any reasons as to why Mr T had these objectives, 
especially given that he had three other DB pension schemes which would likely provide 
guaranteed death benefits anyway. I acknowledge that in transferring from a DB scheme to 
a PPP, the main change in death-benefit provision is the flexibility a PPP provides in 
allowing the fund to be passed to a nominated beneficiary, and not solely his spouse. But I 
have concerns about using this as justification for the transfer.Firstly, it doesnt appear that Mr T had any particular health issues at the time of the advice 
other than asthma. And he recorded his state of health as Excellent on the transfer 
questionnaire he completed. So I dont think it likely that the death benefits, or the likelihood 
that he wouldnt benefit from a pension income from the OPS upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of particular concern to Mr T.
Secondly, the accrued pension provision was intended to provide for Mr Ts retirement rather 
than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy to his family. I accept that the financial wellbeing of 
his family would inevitably have been a priority for Mr T, but the recommendation needed to 
be given in the context of - primarily - Mr Ts best interests in terms of his retirement needs. 
And under the OPSs terms, Mr Ts wife would in any case have been entitled to a spouses 
pension, if Mr T pre-deceased her. And I can see from the suitability report that 
TenetConnect had investigated the option of Mr T taking out life cover, and this was 
available for a relatively modest cost. But TenetConnect discounted this option as it was 
recommending the transfer of his OPS into a PPP. So his objective to provide for his wife 
and children couldve been achieved for a modest cost without transferring, and thus 
retaining the guaranteed benefits from his OPS.
And he already had, along with his wife, a level of savings well in excess of the TFC which 
was projected to be provided by the PPP, which in any case was only about £9,000 more 
than was guaranteed by his OPS. So I cant see how exposing his pension fund to nine 
years of investment risk and charges to achieve only a modest increase, was in his best 
interests.
TenetConnect have made the point that Mr T had the capacity to absorb any financial losses 
from the transfer, as he had three other relatively large occupational pensions, and 
considerable savings. I acknowledge Mr T had documented in the fact find that he had three 
other occupational schemes, and had made contributions to his current OPS for 11 years, 
based on a salary of £175,000. He had also agreed with the following statements about the 
potential transfer of the OPS, when taking into account his overall assets: 
large losses (over 25%) would have a low impact on my standard of living in 
retirement; 
and later, with regards to the relevant OPS, he records:
whilst of value, these benefits do not represent a significant proportion (less than a 
quarter) of potential retirement funds.
And in addition to his pension provision he had about £150,000 in savings shared with his 
wife. So Im satisfied that Mr T had sufficient capacity to absorb any potential losses in the 
PPP. But just because he could probably afford potential losses, doesnt mean his funds 
should be unnecessarily exposed to that risk, and doesnt make unsuitable advice suitable. 
But even if I thought the documented stock objectives of maximising his TFC and improved 
dependent provision were acceptable - and I dont, - I dont see why he was advised to 
transfer when he did, aged 51, when he couldve waited until nearer his desired retirement 
age of 60 to then consider his options. He would still have been able to make the decision to 
transfer his benefits at 60 if it was considered suitable, without having exposed his pension 
fund to nine years of investment risk, charges and not having lost the valuable guaranteed 
benefits. But he wouldve also been able to make that decision whilst having a much clearer 
idea of his personal circumstances at the time, and not trying to predict his circumstances 
nine years ahead.  I note that X were offering a time-limited enhanced CETV to its members if they decided to 
transfer out. So Ive considered whether I think this enhancement was a driving force behind 
TenetConnects recommendation. But I dont think it likely was. The enhancement was only 
approximately 5% of the CETV, so was relatively modest, and wouldnt have made a 
significant difference to the benefits it provided. So whilst I think the time-limited nature of the 
offer probably encouraged Mr T to seek advice from TenetConnect, given his overall 
financial circumstances I dont think the 5% increase was enough to make the transfer 
advice suitable.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. TenetConnect must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
TenetConnect may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
TenetConnect receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
TenetConnect to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint. I require TenetConnect Limited to put things right as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman