DRN-2909757
The complaint
Mr H complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly rejected his claim for legal expenses
assistance under a Family Legal and Identity Theft Protection policy.
References to SOL include activities undertaken by its appointed agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 21 June 2021 explaining that I was minded to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. To put things right I thought a fair and reasonable outcome was that the 
claim needs to be considered on the basis that Mr H benefits from being part of the identified 
retired group of people, rather than excluded by it.
I said it was impossible to say whether Mr H will benefit from cover. But for the avoidance of
doubt SOLs next step is to reconsider all the information to establish if Mr Hs proposed
claim is covered by the policy and if so, whether it has prospects of success. The policy
terms and conditions set out whats required of both parties here, and other than paragraph
4 under what is not covered by this policy (applicable to the whole policy) all other aspects
of the policy apply. 
I described the background as follows:
Mr H bought Family Legal and Identity Theft Protection insurance cover in September 2019.
He says he bought the policy because it gave him cover relevant to some of the risks posed
with his profession. Its noteworthy that the policy is branded for retirees of a different
profession that Mr H was once a member of.
In early October 2019 Mr H was made aware of allegations arising from an event hed
attended in August 2019. An investigation and disciplinary process by his professional
regulator ensued.
The process delivered an outcome in late November 2019 which Mr H disagreed with. He
wanted to appeal the decision and submitted a claim form in late February 2020 for
insurance cover. As part of his claim he said concerns about him included unwanted
touching.
At times its unclear as to what cover he specifically sought but hes adamant that hes been
discriminated against given a protected characteristic he has.
SOL rejected Mr Hs claim based on an exclusion that says the policyholder is not covered
for any claim arising from or relating to an allegation against the insured of assault or
violence. SOLs view was that unwanted touching fell within the meaning of assault. Mr H
says theres a qualifier or exception that means he would benefit from cover as he falls into
that group.
Our investigator explained his opinion that SOL had acted fairly by concluding that there was
an allegation of assault. And the disciplinary panels recommendations of remedial actions
for Mr H to take before continuing his professional work independently, stemmed from the
alleged incident about an assault. The investigator didnt think that the exception for a
particular group of people operated in Mr Hs favour because it applied to different parts of
the policy and not the section in play with Mr Hs case.
And the reasons I gave for being minded to uphold the complaint were:
It appears that the relevant section of the policy is Legal Defence. Under this section theres
cover for a formal investigation or disciplinary hearing being brought against the insured by a
professional or regulatory body. But as with all insurance policies there are conditions,
limitations and restrictions on cover. For example, under the section what is not covered by
this policy (applicable to the whole policy) legal costs and expenses incurred without SOLs
consent are excluded from cover.
The exclusion in issue between Mr H and SOL (at paragraph 4) is italicised below as it
appears in the policy document;
4. an allegation against the insured involving:
a) assault, violence or dishonesty, malicious
falsehood or defamation
b) the manufacture, dealing in or use of alcohol,
illegal drugs, indecent or obscene materials
c) illegal immigration
other than where an allegation otherwise excluded
by 4a) and 4b) is made against an insured who is
a [retired profession group] (my emphasis)
d) offences under Part 7 of the Proceeds of Crime
Act 2002 (money laundering offences)
5. a dispute between your family members other
than where the insureds claim is brought under
INSURED EVENT 7 and the insured is a [retired profession]
SOLs underwriters say that the qualifier / exception part Ive emphasised in bold only
applies to paragraphs 4 c) and 5, whereas Mr H says it applies to 4 a) and 4 b). It may be
that underwriters only intended it to apply on that basis, but Im not satisfied thats how the
policy naturally reads.
As the drafting party its for SOL to make sure the policy wording is clear and unambiguous.
Where it isnt, I think its fair to interpret language in a contract according to what a
reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would have been available to
the parties would have understood them to be using the language in the contract to mean.
Im mindful that the policy is branded for retirees of Mr Hs previous occupation. The fact the
policy refers in places to retirees of that profession strongly suggests that theyre offered
different levels of covers than those not in that particular group of insureds. Im aware that
courts look at the natural and ordinary meaning of the clause. And while courts dont easily
accept people have made linguistic mistakes, the worse the drafting of a clause the more
readily a court will depart from its natural meaning.
Having said all that, Im considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im not
persuaded the words alone are unclear rather the layout and construction of the exclusion
gives rise to a lack of clarity as to which parts it applies to. If I start with paragraph 5 its clear
that if the insured is within the retired profession group, the exclusion applies. If the insured
wasnt in that group, then the exclusion wouldnt apply. And its apparent that paragraph 5
has its own wording and so the bold part isnt relevant to what paragraph 5 means.Turning to 4 a) b) and c), I would be persuaded by SOLs underwriters that the qualifier in
bold only applies to 4 c) if it followed immediately after the words illegal immigration rather
than separately below. That way it would read naturally and logically as is apparent in 
paragraph 5 and its construction / layout. But it doesnt so follow and appears as a 
standalone qualifier / exception, which in my view gives a different construction to the 
exclusion, and how the qualifier / exception applies.
Ive thought carefully about commercial common sense and am satisfied that interpreting
paragraphs 4 a) and b) as being subject to the qualifier is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. Im not persuaded that it obviously or clearly only applies to 4 c) rather its
capable of being logically and easily read that it also applies equally to 4 a) and b).
Im not persuaded SOLs approach is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave the parties until 5 July 2021 to send any further comments or evidence. I havent 
received any replies.
Having thought about this complaint again very carefully Im not changing the decision 
reached in my provisional decision. I remain satisfied of the following;
Mr H faced an allegation of assault against him which was being investigated as part 
of a disciplinary.
There is an exclusion where cover wont be given in circumstances of an allegation of 
assault.
As constructed and set out in the policy, the exclusion doesnt apply where the 
allegation of assault is against an insured who is a member of the relevant retired 
profession group.
Mr H is a member of that group and so the exclusion doesnt apply to him in the 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Society of Lloyds. To put things right the claim now needs to 
be considered on the basis that Mr H benefits from being part of the relevant retired group of 
people, rather than excluded by it.
For the avoidance of doubt, its impossible for me to say whether Mr H will benefit from 
cover.  SOLs next step is to reconsider all the information to establish if Mr Hs proposed
claim is covered by the policy and if so, whether it has prospects of success. 
The policy terms and conditions set out whats required of both parties here, and other than 
paragraph 4 under what is not covered by this policy (applicable to the whole policy) all 
other aspects of the policy apply.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman