DRN-4076481
The complaint
Mr M complains about QIC Europe Ltd and their decision to decline the claim he made on 
his home insurance policy, after he was involved in a scam transaction when selling his 
guitar.
What happened
Mr M held a home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC. In October 2022, Mr M sold a 
guitar through an online platform. The buyer attended Mr Ms property to view the guitar and 
agreed to pay £1,100 to take it from the property the same day. Mr M accepted this offer and 
was shown proof of the payment being raised by the buyer. So, he allowed the buyer to take 
the guitar. But the payment wasnt received into Mr Ms account. So, Mr M contacted QIC to 
raise a claim on his home insurance policy for the cost of the guitar, as well as reporting the 
incident to the police.
QIC considered Mr Ms claim against the terms and conditions of his policy and declined it. 
They didnt think the circumstances of Mr Ms claim met the policy conditions, as they didnt 
think the theft followed forced or violent entry, or that deception had been used to gain entry 
to Mr Ms home. Mr M was unhappy with this decision, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think QICs decision to decline the claim was a fair one. He thought deception 
had been used by the buyer, as the buyer had used a different name on a social media 
account that had been deleted. And the buyer had provided false information regarding the 
payment being raised. So, as Mr M didnt think QIC had provided an adequate definition of 
the term deception, Mr M thought his claim should be accepted.
QIC responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They thought they had declined the claim 
fairly, in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, while they recognised Mr M had been 
a victim of theft, they didnt think they needed to do anything more on this occasion. Mr M 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think QIC had 
acted unfairly when declining the claim, as they didnt think there had been an act of 
deception used to gain entry to Mr Ms home. This was because they thought the buyer, 
even if they were using a false identity, entered Mr Ms property with the intention of 
obtaining the guitar. And that this intention was known to Mr M. So, while they empathised 
with Mr Ms situation, they didnt think QIC needed to do anything more on this occasion. 
Mr M didnt agree. He provided a copy of the complaint he raised with his local police force 
about the way they had investigated the crime for consideration. And he maintained his 
belief that the term deception hadnt been clearly defined and so, he didnt think QIC were 
fair to rely on the term they had used when declining the claim. Mr M also again reiterated 
his belief there had been a breach of contract as the term used wasnt made fully clear at the 
point of purchase. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I dont doubt Mr Ms 
testimony and his version of events. I recognise he allowed the buyer to take the guitar from 
his home in good faith, based on the evidence hed seen that he felt reassured him the 
payment had been raised to his account. So, when this payment didnt materialise, and Mr M 
was left without the guitar and any way of contacting the buyer, I can understand the shock 
and upset Mr M wouldve felt.
And as the guitar was stored, and sold, at his home, I can understand why Mr M would 
contact QIC to make a claim on his home insurance policy. And again, I can appreciate the 
additional upset he wouldve felt when QIC declined his claim.
But for me to say QIC should reverse their original decision and accept the claim, or do 
something else, I first need to be satisfied QIC have done something wrong. So, Id need to 
be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M held when 
they declined the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive considered, and how. From the information and evidence Ive seen, Mr Ms 
complaint centres around the declinature of his claim. So, Ive thought about whether QICs 
decision to decline Mr Ms claim was fair. I can see in response to our investigators view, 
and in conversations with our service, Mr M feels the decline of the claim has led him to 
believe the policy was mis-sold. Any complaint about the sale of the policy is separate to 
QICs decision to decline the claim. And I cant see QIC, or any broker Mr M may have used 
the buy the policy, have been given the chance to investigate Mr Ms complaint about the 
sale of the policy itself. So, Mr M will need to raise this issue separately and give the 
responsible party a chance to respond within their own complaint process. 
I dont think its in dispute that Mr M was deceived by the buyer, as the buyer obtained the 
guitar without paying for it. So, I can understand why Mr M feels as though the claim should 
be covered under the policy, stating the guitar was obtained by deception.
But crucially, I can see the policy terms and conditions state under the section Theft or 
attempted theft that QIC will cover any loss to the contents of Mr Ms home if
a. this was caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your 
home; or
b. deception has been used to gain entry to your home.
In this situation, Mr M allowed the buyer into his property and so, I dont think there was any 
forced or violent entry. So, I dont think Mr Ms claim falls under this condition, and I note 
neither QIC nor Mr M dispute this.
Ive then turned to the second condition, which Mr M feels the claim should be accepted 
under. I think this condition makes it reasonably clear that, for the incident to be deemed an insurable event, the deception during the theft must have been used to gain entry to Mr Ms 
home.
In this situation, Mr M allowed the buyer into his property. And he allowed the buyer in on the 
understanding that it was the buyers intention to obtain the guitar. And this is what the buyer 
did. In this case, I think the deception occurred when the buyer was already in Mr Ms home, 
when they provided false evidence of payment being raised before taking the guitar away 
from the property. And as this deception occurred after entry had been made, I dont think I 
can say QIC have acted unfairly when deciding there wasnt an insurable event and so, 
declined the claim. Because of this, I dont think QIC need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr M Ive 
carefully considered the comments hes made, and why hes unlikely to agree. I dont doubt 
the buyer used a false identity when attending Mr Ms property and so, I can understand why 
Mr M feels this shows deception being used to enter the property. But I dont think I can say 
this is the case, as I think Mr M would most likely have allowed the buyer to enter his 
property with the intention of obtaining the guitar, whether their real identity was used or not.
And I dont think I can say the policy terms are unclear, or that Mr M has been unfairly 
treated due to there being no definition of the term deception. Whether or not the term was 
defined, I think the condition makes it reasonably clear that the deception must be used to 
gain entry into Mr Ms home. And in this situation, I dont think the deceptive act that left Mr 
M without the guitar, or the agreed payment for it, happened until the buyer had already 
been allowed into the property. And so, I dont think QIC have acted unfairly, or outside of 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about QIC Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman