DRN-1612051
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H applied for a mortgage in 2002. He was sold the PPI in connection with this mortgage 
at the same time.
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr H was off work sick 
or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld because Mr H told us he 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. As the policy had 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions our adjudicator thought that the policy 
wasnt suitable for Mr H. And that if the exclusions had been drawn to Mr Hs attention then 
he wouldnt have taken the policy out.
Santander didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means they had to take adequate steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr H. As well as checking if the policy was suitable, 
Santander also had to provide Mr H with clear information about the policy so that he could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy out. In particular, this 
included drawing Mr Hs attention to the main exclusions and restrictions in the policy at the 
time of the sale.
Mr H has told us that he suffered from a medical condition at the time of the sale (since 
1990) and had been registered disabled due to this condition. The policy wouldnt have paid 
out if Mr H was off work sick because of this condition.
Santander say that it would have been part of the discussion to establish whether Mr H had 
any medical conditions which could influence the suitability of the policy. They say Mr Hs 
condition would have been evident and so would have been discussed. And that upon 
receiving the policy summary and welcome pack Mr H would have been made aware of any 
significant exclusions or limitations. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that a discussion did take place around Mr Hs 
condition and why the policy would still have been considered suitable for Mr H despite this 
condition. In any event, I dont think the policy would have been suitable for Mr H as, even 
though Mr H may have been able to make a claim for other conditions, he wouldnt have 
been able to make a claim for the condition that he was registered disabled for and which is 
likely to have been the medical condition at the forefront of his mind.
I havent seen sufficient evidence that Mr H was made aware of this exclusion at the point at 
which he took PPI out. I think that if Mr Hs attention had been drawn to the exclusions 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions as it should have been then he wouldnt have 
taken the policy out. This is because it wouldnt have provided good value for money in his 
circumstances.
So I think Mr H was mis-sold this PPI policy.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Santander Uk Plc and require them to pay Mr H the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman