DRN-4045217
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) unfairly declined a claim for storm damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted RSA to make a claim for storm damage. RSA said it could send a surveyor 
in a couple of weeks time or Mr B could provide a quote. Mr B said he would provide a 
quote. A few months later, Mr B provided a quote. When it reviewed it, RSA said it would 
send a surveyor to assess the damage. Following this, RSA declined the claim because it 
said the main cause of the damage was the pre-existing condition of the roof, rather than the 
storm.
When Mr B complained, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr B 
complained this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was 
reasonable for RSA to decline the claim based on its surveyors assessment. He also said 
RSA hadnt agreed to pay up to £1,500 towards the claim, so it didnt need to pay a 
contribution towards the total cost of the repair.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am of the view that I have enough information available to me to make a fair and 
reasonable decision. Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
RSA didnt dispute that there were storm conditions in the period before Mr B reported the 
claim. Ive also checked the weather conditions around that time and saw wind speeds that 
would be regarded as storm strength. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof. So, 
I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which was on the main cause of the damage. RSA 
sent a surveyor. Im aware this was several months after the damage was first reported. The 
surveyor assessed that the damage to the roof was the result of the natural breakdown of 
materials. When RSA replied to Mr Bs complaint, it also commented that the surveyor had 
found that the rear of the property was in a poor state of repair, including unfinished 
outbuildings and dilapidated upper structure of the roof. Ive looked at the photos taken by 
the surveyor, as well as photos taken by RSAs home emergency provider that visited the 
property a couple of weeks after the storm. From what I can see, these photos are 
consistent with the surveyors findings. Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for 
RSA to rely on its experts findings that there were pre-existing issues with the roof and that 
the main cause of the damage was a natural breakdown of materials over time, rather than 
the storm.
Im aware Mr B was also concerned by the amount of time it took a surveyor to visit and 
thinks this contributed to the damage. I listened to the phone call when Mr B first reported 
the claim. RSA offered to send a surveyor. However, because it wouldnt be for a couple of 
weeks, Mr B said that wasnt soon enough. RSA said Mr B could send quotes for the work if 
he preferred. When Mr B spoke to RSA again, he seemed to have spoken to a builder and 
said he would submit the quote by email along with some other details. However, it was a 
few months later that Mr B submitted a quote. When RSA received the quotes, it said it 
would send a surveyor to view the damage. 
So, RSA originally offered to send a surveyor, but Mr B declined this. Mr B said he would 
send quotes, but there was a delay in doing so. When Mr B sent the quotes, RSA said it 
would send a surveyor, which it then did. Its my understanding that RSA also twice sent a 
home emergency company to deal with some of the damage. However, Mr B wasnt there so 
the home emergency engineers just carried out an assessment. Im aware Mr B has said he 
didnt know the engineers were due to visit. Even if that was the case that didnt prevent Mr 
B from contacting RSA to send another engineer when he was available. Having looked at 
what happened, I dont think I can fairly say RSA was responsible for the delay in sending a 
surveyor or for damage that happened before it did so.
Ive also considered whether RSA should make a contribution towards the works. I listened 
to the phone call where Mr B and RSA discussed the works and getting quotes. The call 
handler said that if the works cost up to £1,500 Mr B could go ahead with the work and send 
the invoice to RSA. But, if the works cost more than £1,500, Mr B was told he would need to 
provide RSA with the quote so it could approve the works before they went ahead. When Mr 
B provided the quote, which was a few months later, it was for about £7,000. So, I dont think 
RSA needed to pay anything towards those costs and I didnt hear anything in the calls or 
see any other evidence that showed me it had made a commitment to make a contribution.
So, having carefully considered all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA 
to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman