DRN-2770566
The complaint
Ms R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have unfairly declined her claim for 
legal expenses insurance.
Aviva uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance policy on its behalf, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Ms R is a judge of the Senior Courts of England and Wales and holds a legal expenses 
insurance policy with Aviva that covers her for employment disputes. She sits in the higher 
courts pursuant to section 9 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and claims that the failure of the 
Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Lord Chancellor to pay an additional sum for this work 
amounts to a breach of the Part Time Worker (Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment) 
Regulations 2000. For ease of reference, Ill refer to Ms Rs legal claim as a section 9 claim 
throughout the rest of this decision.
Ms R is represented in this matter by her solicitor  Leigh Day  who represent a number of 
other judges bringing section 9 claims in the Employment Tribunal. She approached Aviva in 
May 2019 for assistance in funding her employment dispute using her legal expenses policy. 
The solicitor arranged for the claim be funded under a cost share proposal (CSP), whereby 
the cost of the litigation would be split equally between all the section 9 claimants 
represented by Leigh Day  meaning that all claimants have the potential to benefit equally 
for work undertaken on the claim (either by the solicitor, or advocacy by counsel on the 
groups behalf, for example).
Aviva declined the claim, however, as it said the policy does not provide cover for:
Disputes relating to new areas of law, test cases or class actions.
The insurer said that Ms Rs employment dispute was part of a class action and was 
therefore excluded. 
Ms R complained that Aviva had acted unfairly, as she does not consider her claim to be 
part of a class action. In summary, she submits:
Class actions were introduced by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and 
are a specific legal concept existing in the Competition Appeal Tribunal  not the 
Employment Tribunal. They are brought by a single claimant on behalf of the whole 
class and must gain permission from the Competition Tribunal to proceed. However, 
in the section 9 litigation, each claimant will have their own individual claim against 
the MoJ/Lord Chancellor with their own individual claim number allocated by the 
Employment Tribunal. In this instance, there is no single or lead claimant bringing the 
claim on behalf of the group and every claimant has their own individual claim.
If the claim were successful, there would be no collective or single remedy applied to 
all those litigating the claim, as the damages paid would be specific to each individual 
claimant depending on their judicial sitting history  rather than a pot of money being 
distributed among those in the same group (as is the case with class actions). 
The insurer has used the Cambridge Dictionary definition of a class action (as legal 
action organised by a group of people who have suffered the same problem) which 
is incorrect as the concept already exists in English Law. It is not fair for the insurer to 
override or ignore the legal interpretation for the purposes of its exclusion. The fact 
that Leigh Day are choosing to simplify the funding process by using a CSP does not 
change the legal status of the claim but, rather, makes it more cost effective.
The fact that other individuals are already bringing the same or similar claims does 
not make it a class action as there are often numerous incidents where individual 
claims have been litigated on similar or identical facts against the same respondent  
which are not defined as class actions or group claims. There is a clear legal 
distinction between a class action and a group of similar but individual claims which 
are being funded by way of a CSP for the benefit of litigants. Without a claim, there 
would be no redress.
The success of Ms Rs claim depends on the facts of her individual matter  i.e. 
whether the work she has personally carried out when sitting in the higher courts was 
equivalent to that of a High Court Judge. If this work is not deemed equivalent, her 
claim in the Employment Tribunal fails, whereas other judges claims on different 
facts might still succeed.
Leigh Day have had other claims covered by insurers in the past where there is a 
CSP. It cannot be right that another client pursuing a claim that is being managed as 
a group in a similar way can have their claim covered when Ms Rs is refused.
Ms Rs claim also isnt a new area of law and neither is a test case so as to fall 
into scope of the exclusion cited by Aviva. 
Aviva disagreed and continued to decline Ms Rs claim. It said:
The exclusion is applicable where the insured is in a group of people who are all 
pursuing the same opponent. Even if they pursue the matter separately, they are still 
part of a group of people with the same claim even if they are not with the same 
solicitor. And while the term class action doesnt necessarily mean what is intended 
in English law, the intention of the exclusion is to avoid covering large group claims.
In this instance, regardless of whether Ms R is joining a CSP, she will still be part of a 
group of people making the same claim and pursuing the same issue as others. The 
cost sharing members are its own group and part of a larger group of people all 
pursuing the same or a similar issue. They are making the same claim in substance 
rather than form  therefore the exclusion applies.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that the reasonable 
policyholder would understand the term class action to mean group action or collective 
action taken by a group of people seeking the same outcome. Ms R disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 April 2021. I said I was minded to 
uphold it, and set out the following reasoning:
The first substantive issue in this complaint concerns how the term class action should be interpreted in the absence of any particular definition having been 
assigned to it under the policy terms and conditions. Ms R submits that a class action 
is a specific legal concept introduced by the CRA 2015 and should therefore be 
construed as such. On the other hand, Aviva submits that the term should be 
afforded its widely and naturally understood meaning of being a group of litigants 
seeking the same outcome or pursuing the same opponent. 
When considering the scope of the term class action and its meaning within the 
context of English law, its helpful first to examine the different ways in which a group 
of litigants can bring the same (or similar) legal action in the English and Welsh 
courts. Traditionally, the terminology class action was only used in the context of 
the US legal system and a few other jurisdictions around the world, and typically 
refers to an opt out form of litigation where potential claimants fall within a defined 
class and will be included in a claim unless they choose to opt out. 
Group litigation procedures have also long existed in English law, but they havent 
historically been referred to as class actions. The Civil Procedure Rules, for 
example, set out the formal collective action procedures available for use in the High 
Court. These include:
Group litigation orders;
Representative actions; and
Claims that can be conveniently disposed of in the same proceedings by the 
court.
All of these group litigation procedures operate on an opt-in basis; whereby all 
claimants have to be part of a given claim in order to share in any remedy. There is 
no scope for an opt-out style of class action, and neither is this terminology used 
within the Civil Procedure Rules itself. These procedures are also only available for 
use in the High Court  and not in the Employment Tribunal, which is where Ms Rs 
case is being pursued.
The Employment Tribunal has its own set of rules and procedures for group litigation. 
Rule 9 of the Employment Tribunal Rules of Procedure 2013 allows for multiple 
claimants by way of two or more individuals making their claims on the same claim 
form if they give rise to common or related issues of fact or law. Rule 36 of the 2013 
Rules allows the Employment Tribunal to specify one or more claims as a lead case 
for it to consider while staying the related claims  with the decision of the Tribunal 
subsequently being binding on the other related claims. The Tribunal also has 
general case management powers under Rule 29 of the 2013 rules to consolidate 
claims if this will save costs and time (e.g. where two claims arise out of substantially 
similar facts). But again, in common with the Civil Procedure Rules, there is no 
reference in the Employment Tribunal Rules of Procedure 2013 to class actions or 
of the multiple/consolidated/lead case systems being termed as such. 
A new category of group action was, however, subsequently introduced by the CRA 
2015 which is more akin to the class-action lawsuits seen in the USA. Schedule 8 of 
the Act amended sections 47A and 47B of the Competition Act 1998, to allow for 
collective proceedings to be brought by multiple claimants in the Competition 
Appeals Tribunal (CAT)  the first such system to make allowances for an opt-out 
form of group litigation in English Law. In the recent Supreme Court case (brought by 
our former chief ombudsman)  Mastercard Incorporated and others v Walter Hugh 
Merricks CBE [2020] UKSC 51  Lord Briggs said there are three key features of these collective proceedings:
1) Claims by any number of claimants may be pursued on their behalf by a 
single representative who may, but need not be, a member of the class. The 
claims need not be identical, and they need not all be against all the 
defendants, but they must all raise the same, similar or related issues of fact 
or law.
2) The remedy sought may, but need not always, be the award of what are 
called aggregate damages. This type of damages provides just compensation 
for the loss suffered by the claimant class as a whole, but the amount need 
not be computed by reference to an assessment of the amount of damages 
recoverable by each member of the class individually. 
3) The CAT has discretion as to how aggregate damages (if recovered) are to 
be distributed among members of the class. 
I acknowledge that Schedule 8 of the CRA 2015 references collective proceedings. 
However, in the Merricks case, the Supreme Court adopted the terminology of class 
actions where it was used synonymously with, and as a term of art for, collective 
proceedings in the CAT. For example, Lord Sales in his judgment set out:
Class actions
A new class action regime was introduced in the United Kingdom in 2015 as 
part of a wider set of reforms of private actions for breaches of competition 
law. The central rationale for any class action regime is that it enables 
claimants to benefit from the same economies of scale as are already 
naturally enjoyed by the defendant as a single litigant. It does so by allowing 
numerous individual claims to be combined into a single claim brought on 
behalf of a class of persons.
But in reference to this regime of class actions, Lord Sales said:
The regime is limited in scope to claims to which 47A of the Act applies. 
These are, broadly speaking, claims for redress for loss or damage caused by 
an infringement or alleged infringement of competition law.
In the Merricks case, Lord Sales goes on to differentiate between Group actions 
which enable a (potentially large) number of claimants to litigate common issues 
together, allowing them to share costs and obtain one judgment and Collective 
proceedings brought under section 47B of the Act that require judicial certification by 
the CAT in order to proceed. But as set out above, the Court only refers to the latter 
as class actions  it does not group all formal group action procedures in English 
law (such as those used in the High Court or Employment Tribunal) under this 
umbrella. And Lord Sales said that the new regime of class actions is limited in 
scope to breaches of competition law.
So, in light of the considerations set out above, Ive considered what the term class 
action means in the context of Ms Rs legal expenses policy in the absence of any 
specific definition having been assigned to it. When a court interprets a contract, it 
seeks to determine what a reasonable person would have understood the parties to 
have meant by the language used, where the reasonable person is taken to have all 
the background knowledge which would have been reasonably available to the 
parties at the time of the contract (see the judgment of Lord Hoffman in Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38). When a certain phrase has a natural 
and ordinary meaning, it will generally be given that meaning. But where it has a 
technical meaning, it will usually be interpreted in accordance with its technical 
meaning unless the context or the policy wording has altered that meaning. If, 
however, a phrase has a natural and a technical meaning, then which one applies is 
to be determined by the context of the contract and also in line with what yields to 
commercial common sense. 
Aviva acknowledges that there is no definitive definition of a class action and that 
this creates some unpredictability. It seeks to rely on what it says is an ordinary 
dictionary definition meaning legal action organised by a group of people who have 
the same problem. But I note that this is just one of several potential dictionary 
definitions (with some referring to a single action thats representative of others, while 
others refer to group action being pursued where interests are aligned). However, the 
definition/wording relied upon by Aviva is not found anywhere within Ms Rs policy 
document. So I dont think it can reasonably be said that this is how the term would 
be objectively construed by the reasonable person. Aviva has said itself that there is 
no definitive definition of class action, and there is also no corroborative context 
within the policy document to support its interpretation of the term either. So I dont 
agree that the reasonable person would necessarily understand the term in line with 
Avivas definition; particularly when there is also another technical meaning that can 
be attributed to it.   
Taking account of the CRA 2015 and the recent judgment of the Supreme Court in 
the Merricks case, its clear that the term class action also has a technical meaning 
in English law (i.e. referring to collective proceedings brought in the CAT for loss or 
damage caused by an infringement of competition law). In the circumstances of Ms 
Rs claim, the term is used within a legal expenses policy in the context of bringing 
legal proceedings. So, against this background, I consider that a court would likely 
interpret class action in line with this technical meaning. In my judgment, this is 
what the parties would have likely understood the term to have meant in the context 
of a legal expenses policy and is also the interpretation that yields to commercial 
common sense. I appreciate this is a consumer policy, but nonetheless, given there 
is seemingly no definitive natural or ordinary definition of class action that a 
reasonable consumer would readily understand, I still think the technical meaning 
would likely be considered by the court as being the correct one intended by the 
parties in these circumstances. 
Even if Im wrong about how a court would interpret the term, I think there is also 
scope to say that the term is objectively unclear in any event. Aviva says the term 
means legal action organised by a group of people who have the same problem. But 
this doesnt differentiate between single claims that may be representative of other 
similar claims (such as Ms Rs), and those that are the same but are pursued by a 
group of people collectively. So, I consider it is relatively ambiguous and is also 
inconsistent with the civil procedure for claims. 
Given that Ms Rs insurance policy is a consumer contract, the position is governed 
by the CRA 2015. Section 69 of the Act sets out the position for contract terms that 
may have different meanings:
69: Contract terms that may have different meanings
(1) If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have 
different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer 
is to prevail.This effectively codifies the long-established rule of contractual interpretation known 
by the Latin tag contra proferentem, whereby an unclear or ambiguous term is 
construed against the person who drafted it  in this case, Aviva. The meaning of 
class action that is most favourable to the consumer in this instance is for it to be 
interpreted in line with its technical meaning as referring only to collective 
proceedings taken in the CAT as introduced by the CRA 2015, and which the 
Supreme Court has termed the new class action regime. 
So, in the event that a court would not attribute the technical meaning as being the 
objective intention of the parties (which, for reasons Ive outlined above, I consider to 
be unlikely) I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to avail itself of 
a broader interpretation in any event due to the term being objectively unclear. If 
Aviva wants to exclude all forms of group/collective action available in English law, 
then it would need to clearly and specifically set this out in its exclusions. It cannot 
use an ambiguous term such as class action that can have different meanings and 
then subsequently seek to rely on the more favourable meaning when attempting to 
exclude the claim.  
Even if the multiple claim/lead case procedures of the Employment Tribunal could be 
considered as a class action (which, for the reasons set out above, I do not 
reasonably think it can), Leigh Day have confirmed that, in any event, Ms Rs claim 
has not been submitted as a multiple claim under Rule 9 of the Employment Tribunal 
Rules 2013. Theyve said it has been submitted as an individual claim in the normal 
way under Rule 8, and the Employment Tribunal has not made any order under Rule 
36 for any of the cases to be selected as a lead case. 
Leigh Day have explained that in these proceedings the Tribunal has decided to 
determine some of the generic issues by hearing a few sample cases individually. 
Lead counsel for the claimants has also said that, while there are some points of law 
in common, the factual situation for each individual will need to be considered by the 
Tribunal (as the way in which the claimants worked could be very different according 
to their location). So it isnt the case that all the claims necessarily stand or fall 
together; and given that no order pursuant to Rule 36 has been made, any decision 
of the Tribunal would not be binding on other claims. Instead, Leigh Day have said 
that the intention is that the decision of the Tribunal will help shape the outcome in 
similar cases or will even perhaps facilitate a settlement with the respondent for 
those not selected for trial. If the sample claimants are successful in establishing 
liability on the generic issues, then issues relating to remedy as well as any matters 
affecting individual claimants (such as limitation) would be dealt with afterwards. 
So, in light of the above, it does not appear that Ms Rs legal action fits the criteria of 
being a class action in line with the technical meaning that I consider was 
objectively intended by the parties for this term. It is not part of any collective 
proceedings being brought on behalf of a particular class in the CAT for a breach of 
competition law. It also does not seemingly require judicial certification in order to 
proceed, and neither will aggregate damages be split between all claimants if the 
action is successful, as Leigh Day have said that the damages for each claimant will 
be dependent on their individual circumstances, such as their sitting history. There is 
also no lead claim being pursued by a single representative on the judges behalf, as 
several sample cases will be reviewed by the Tribunal. Therefore, having 
considered the nature of Ms Rs legal action as outlined above, I do not consider it to 
be akin to a class action, or that it can reasonably be termed as such given that it 
does not relate to collective proceedings being brought in the CAT.
After taking all of this into account, I do not consider that the exclusion applies in these circumstances. I note that the particular exclusion relied on by Aviva also 
excludes disputes relating to new areas of law as well as test cases. However, 
Ms Rs dispute cannot be said to relate to a new area of law, as the Part Time 
Worker (Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment) Regulations 2000 have been in 
place for over 20 years now and have been litigated over before now. 
I also do not think Ms Rs claim can reasonably be considered as a test case either 
(another undefined term in the policy) because there is no such terminology used in 
the Employment Tribunal Rules 2013 (which instead refers to lead cases) or any 
scheme for bringing a test case in this context. The Financial Markets Test Case 
scheme, for example, allows for a claim raising issues of general importance to 
financial markets to be determined in a test case without the need for a specific 
dispute between the parties where immediately relevant English law guidance is 
needed (and which was recently used to bring a case to the Supreme Court by the 
FCA in The Financial Conduct Authority v Arch and others [2021] UKSC 1). But as 
far as Im aware, there is no similar mechanism or scheme for a test case such as 
this to be brought in the Employment Tribunal. So it follows that Aviva cannot exclude 
it for this reason either.
Overall, I consider that Aviva has declined Ms Rs claim unfairly, as Im not 
persuaded the policy term it has cited operates to exclude cover in these 
circumstances. So I currently intend to uphold this complaint and will be directing 
Aviva to consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
I invited both parties to submit further evidence and arguments in response. Aviva 
responded accepting my provisional decision, but neither Ms R nor her representatives 
responded with any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had any further comments or evidence to put forwards for further 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from the reasoning set out above in my provisional 
decision. 
I therefore conclude that Aviva declined Ms Rs claim unfairly, so it should now reconsider 
her claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
reconsider Ms Rs legal expenses claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman