DRN-4510474
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs F complain about HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI)s handling of their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to HDI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr C and Mrs F made a claim around February 2021 regarding drainage issues at 
their rental property. This had caused issues of raising the flooring in the newer 
section of the property.
HDI initially declined the claim. Following this Mr C and Mrs F provided reports from a 
structural engineer, setting out the cause of damage related to drainage at the 
property. HDI then accepted the claim and arranged repairs.
Mr C and Mrs F disputed HDIs proposed method of repair would resolve the issues. 
Following repairs, issues continued to exist, so Mr C and Mrs F hired their own 
contractor to carry out works to reroute drains under the property. HDI agreed to 
cover the cost of this and the cost of the structural surveyor.
Following this a scope of work was agreed to repair damage at the property. This 
work began around October 2022.
Mr C and Mrs F returned to the property from holiday whilst works were ongoing. 
They discovered works carried out had deviated from the scope of work they agreed 
with HDI. They requested work be paused and asked HDI why the work had changed 
without them being informed.
HDI said the construction of the flooring in the older part of the house was
substandard and the original builder cut corners when building the property in the
early 1960s.
It said it found the flooring shallower in depth than it expected, and its contractor said
the insulation used in the original construction was incorrect. HDI offered to make
good the area it has worked on, in line with current building regulations, but it says
because the issue relates to poor workmanship, it is excluded under terms of the
policy. So, it has removed the flooring from the scope of works and is not covering
this aspect.
Mr C and Mrs F raised a complaint about HDIs handling of their claim. HDI didnt
provide a response. So, Mr C and Mrs F brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended Mr C and Mrs Fs complaint be upheld.
To put things right she recommended HDI:
Cash settle the claim based on the work set out in the schedule of works agreed in 
October 2022.
HDI pay Mr C and Mrs F £350 compensation for the inconvenience its actions 
caused them in its handling of their claim.
Put right the damage relating to the flooring at the property and honour what it initially 
agreed in its scope prior to work commencing.
What my decision considers
Im aware there have been further developments in this case, which has changed the issues 
I intend to look at here. In particular, I can see a new dispute exists regarding the settlement 
HDI has since offered for the claim.
However, my decision only considers events up to December 2022  which relates now to 
the journey of the claim up to this date and the dispute regarding the flooring issue at the 
property. Any reference to events beyond this date, and covered in HDIs subsequent final 
response in September 2023, are for contextual purposes only.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2023 in my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The flooring
Ive reviewed the comments from HDIs contractor regarding the flooring. It does point out a
defect was found under the original concrete slab, and it was concerned a large area of the
property had been built this way. However, Ive not seen any investigations or photos that
support this was the case  and if the whole floor didnt meet regulations at the time it was
built, I would expect HDI to specifically tell me what regulations applied, and which ones
were not met.
HDI said by replacing the floor, as it has set out in the scope of works, it would be putting
Mr C and Mrs F in a better position. However, I consider in this case it was fair and
reasonable to carry out a full and effective repair under the policy. Ive not been pointed to
anything that persuades me the floor didnt meet regulations or that this extended to the
whole of the property, namely in the parts subject to the claim (which Mr C and Mrs F have
set out to be newer parts of the construction).
So, while I appreciate HDI had potential concerns, I dont think it did enough to justify its
decision to amend the scope of works. Therefore, I intend to direct HDI to offer Mr C and
Mrs F a cash settlement of the reasonable cost to them of carrying out the work relating to
the flooring. This should be based on the work set out in the final scope agreed upon prior to
work commencing around October 2022.
The journey of the claim
Mr C and Mrs F have provided information that has challenged and altered the direction of
the claim on more than one occasion. Im pleased HDI agreed to cover costs of repairs to
reroute the drains and for the structural surveyor. But it took them around three months to
acknowledge the drains were the cause of damage and proceed with further investigation, at
the inconvenience of Mr C and Mrs F.
I can also see HDI has delayed providing responses to Mr C and Mrs F on severaloccasions, including when the works changed in October 2022. Ongoing matters also
caused Mr C and Mrs F issues with their tenants, which would have added to the
inconvenience they experienced.
In the circumstances I think the £350 compensation recommended by our investigator is
reasonable in reflecting the inconvenience HDIs actions caused Mr C and Mrs F.
Cash Settlement
It doesnt appear to be in dispute about proceeding to a cash settlement, and I can see Mr C
and Mrs F have since had works carried out independently.
However, for completeness, I do think it was reasonable in the circumstances for the claim to
be cash settled.
Mr C and Mrs F have had to seek further opinions from experts, which have changed the
course of the claim, on more than one occasion, and it is clear they lost faith in HDI.
Mr C and Mrs F have had works carried out, which differ in part, so it would be hard to set
out what the costs to Mr C and Mrs F would have been. However, I do think it reasonable for
the settlement to be based on the final scope of work agreed between Mr C and Mrs F and
HDI prior to work commencing. And it is fair HDI should consider reasonable costs to Mr C
and Mrs F on production of sufficient evidence.
Putting things right
To put things right I intend to direct HDI to:
Provide a cash settlement regarding the flooring. This settlement should consider
making right any existing damage and completion of the work originally agreed under
the final scope of works that commenced in part in October 2022.
Pay Mr C and Mrs F £350 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
HDI have not provided any response to my provisional findings.
Mr C and Mrs F agreed with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything again and my decision, and reasoning, remain the same as set 
out in my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
To put things right HDI should:
Provide a cash settlement regarding the flooring. This settlement should consider 
making right any existing damage and completion of the work originally agreed under 
the final scope of works that commenced in part in October 2022.
Pay Mr C and Mrs F £350 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr C and Mrs Fs complaint.
To put things right, I direct HDI Global Specialty SE to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman