DRN-3279412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they had delays and poor customer service in retrieving their
wills from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had their wills and house deeds stored with Barclaysafe since 1993, in which
they paid £3 each per month for this service. Mr and Mrs D say that on 22 March 2021, they
visited a local branch and asked Barclays to organise the return of their wills. The staff
member informed them that Barclays dont offer this service anymore, which concerned Mr
and Mrs D as they thought their wills were safely stored and easily retrievable. The staff
member gave Mr and Mrs D two telephone numbers to try and retrieve their wills.
The first telephone number which Mr and Mrs D tried did not get them through to any
department. The second telephone number which they tried connected them to a third party
company, who now organise Barclays wills, but they werent involved with Barclaysafe. Mrs
D says the third party company call handler gave her another two telephone numbers.
The first number connected them to the Barclays bereavement department, but they were
unable to help Mr and Mrs D retrieve their wills. The second telephone number was to the
complaints department, who informed Mr and Mrs D that it was not possible to call
Barclaysafe direct and they would email them on Mr and Mrs Ds behalf. Mrs D asked the
complaints department to raise a complaint on their behalf. She says she was told that she
would receive a call or an email in the next 24 hours, however, Mrs D says she received
neither.
On 23 March 2021, Mrs D emailed the chief executive officer for Barclays, explaining her
issues. She received confirmation that her complaint had been passed onto the executive
complaints team for action. A week later, Mr and Mrs D had no response, so they emailed
their contact in the complaints team.
On 31 March 2021, Mrs D had several phone calls with a new complaint handler. Mrs D
said they gave her the option of collecting the wills either in branch or receiving the
documents by post (on a signed for basis). Mr and Mrs D wanted their documents to be
posted. The call handler said he would contact them when the wills were posted.
Mrs D says she told the call handler that she was going to set up new wills as she had no
confidence the ones with Barclays would be found. She says that the call handler told her to
delay doing this as he would update her by 2 April 2021. As Mr and Mrs D did not hear back
from Barclays by this date, they set up new wills.
Mr and Mrs D had still not heard anything from Barclays about the whereabouts of their wills
a week later, so Mrs D contacted Barclays again. Mrs D says it was on 14 April 2021, a
different complaint handler (as the previous complaint handler was on sick leave), informed
Mr and Mrs D that the wills had been sent to her home address on 8 April 2021 and they had
been signed for. Mr and Mrs D were upset as they had been promised a phone call when the
wills were being posted to them, then someone could have been in the house if they had
been informed the wills were being posted which didnt happen. The postman had signed for
the delivery due to coronavirus protocols.
Although the postman had signed for the delivery, Mr and Mrs D hadnt received their wills.
Mrs D says that she was told by Barclays to follow this up with the postal service, despite her
not being involved in the delivery process. Mr and Mrs D say that on 25 April 2021, their
neighbours had returned from a post lockdown holiday and brought a parcel for them. The
neighbours said that they had seen a parcel on Mr and Mrs Ds doorstep and knowing that
Mr and Mrs D werent in the house, they took the parcel into their house for safekeeping and
they had only just remembered about it when they had returned.
Barclays upheld Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. They said that the complaint handler had
explained to them that they were having system issues which was causing delays to their
service. Barclays say that the complaint handler was on leave when the wills were sent on 6
April 2021 and the documents were delivered on 8 April 2021. They acknowledged they
didnt contact Mr and Mrs D to inform them that the items had been dispatched. Barclays say
that although they opened an investigation with the postal service, the postman who had
delivered the wills was on annual leave also, which caused further delays. Barclays offered
Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation. Mr and Mrs D declined the offer.
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to our service. Mr and Mrs D want Barclays to cover
the costs of their new wills (£400) and another £400 compensation for the customer service
issues.
Our investigator said that the system issues were unforeseeable. She also said that the
communication gap was due to an unforeseen issue as the complaint handler who said they
would notify Mr and Mrs D that the wills had been dispatched was on sick leave when the
documents were dispatched. Our investigator thought the £200 offer Barclays made was fair.
Mr and Mrs D asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They said they werent
told that there were system issues and when they started using the service and they had
been told originally that they could retrieve their wills within two days. They sent a link to the
Barclays website for Barclaysafe which they said it showed these timescales.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have made a number of points to both Barclays and this service and Ive
considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role
as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats
fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr and Mrs D that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated
activity and as such, the issues theyve raised that relate directly to how Barclays have
investigated their complaint, such as time delays dont come under my powers to consider.
So Ill just be looking at the merits of their complaint here.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs D have said about not being informed that there were
system issues, delaying the retrieval of their wills. So I asked Barclays for evidence that they
told Mr and Mrs D that there were system issues. Barclays sent me a call they had with Mrs
D on 31 March 2021. On this call, the complaint handler says his colleague at Barclaysafe
told him they had a lot of delays, theyre facing massive IT issues at the moment in that
department. So Im satisfied that Barclays did tell Mrs D that there were delays, eventhough they didnt know what was the cause of the system delays at the time of the call.
It is because of those delays which I think it wasnt possible for Barclaysafe to keep to their
service times for the retrieval of their documents. Mrs D has sent a link to our service which
she says shows they would retrieve the documents within 1-2 days. When I clicked on the
link it doesnt show any timescales, so I asked Mrs D if she had a copy of this information or
if she had any documentation showing this. Mrs D didnt have documentation of this, so I
asked Barclays what their timescales were. Barclays sent me a screenshot of their internal
systems which showed the timescales are longer due to increased demand for wallet
withdrawals. It also goes on to say that the Barclaysafe documents should be sent to the
branch or the correspondence address within 5-9 working days.
With the wording of the internal systems for Barclays, Im persuaded that the time stated
here is longer than normal. So Im persuaded that on the balance of probability, that Mrs D
would be closer to the normal timeframe that she says she was originally told, of 1-2 working
days. Its possible Barclays removed this timeframe from their website when they knew they
had service delays, or it could be when they decided that they were going to close this
service.
Ive thought about the timescales involved here. But regardless of whether it should have
been 1-2 working days or 5-9 working days, Im persuaded that as the system problems
resulted in Barclays being unable to retrieve the documents, then the timeframe that they
aimed to send out the documents wouldnt be able to be kept. Barclays explained to Mrs D
on the aforementioned call that they were having delays in sending out the documents. So
Im satisfied that they set an expectation that they wouldnt be able to send out the
documents as quickly as they would normally do so.
I say this as its clear at the time of the call that Barclays didnt know what was causing the
system issues and they were investigating this. And the call handler was unable to say when
this would be resolved. So Im satisfied that the system issues here were unforeseen at the
time. And this is the reason why the complaint handler says he would let Mr and Mrs D know
when the documents were sent out.
Unfortunately, the call handler was on sick leave when the documents were dispatched.
From the call on 31 March 2021, the wills were dispatched four working days later. As Mr
and Mrs D did not receive notification that the documents had been dispatched, they werent
able to put plans in place to make sure someone was in the house that day.
I asked Barclays why another handler didnt inform Mr and Mrs D that the wills had been
dispatched. Barclays said that agreeing to inform customers of when documents are
dispatched isnt part of their normal process and that this was a one off agreement with the
call handler and Mr and Mrs D, due to them raising a complaint. Barclays have said that the
complaint handler went on sick leave on 1 April 2021. So Im satisfied that this event was
unforeseen. I say this as its unlikely the complaint handler would know he would be off on
sick leave when the documents would have been sent.
But what also delayed things here was the Easter bank holiday weekend. As Friday 2 April
and Monday 5 April were non working days, then the new complaint handler was assigned
to Mr and Mrs Ds case on 8 April 2021. By this time the documents had already been
dispatched. So as the complaint handler hadnt returned back to work by 8 April 2021,
Barclays had reassigned Mr and Mrs Ds case to another complaint handler.
Ive considered the impact that the lack of call would have had on Mr and Mrs D. Theres no
doubt that this would have been very upsetting, especially at a time they had lost faith in
Barclays ability to successfully retrieve their wills. While the sickness of the complainthandler was unforeseen, an expectation had been set by the handler that Mr and Mrs D
would receive a phone call informing them that their wills had been dispatched. They werent
to know that the complaint handler was off sick and they wouldnt get a phone call. So Im
satisfied the lack of a phone call led to a chain of unfortunate events, such as the postman
leaving their documents on the doorstep and the neighbours going on holiday before they
gave Mr and Mrs D their documents.
Ive looked at Barclays role in these events. But it would be unfair to hold them responsible
for the postmans decision to leave the documents on their doorstep. I say this as my
expectation here is that the postman would need some interaction with a person,
acknowledging they had received the documents, regardless of coronavirus protocols
resulting in the postman needing to sign for the delivery. So the fact that the postman
decided to leave the documents on the doorstep, without taking the parcel back to the local
post office (or collection point) and putting a card through the door informing Mr and Mrs D
he attempted to deliver the parcel but they werent in, or trying to deliver the parcel to a
neighbour instead, means I cant hold Barclays responsible for the actions of a third party
here, even if they asked the third party to successfully deliver the wills.
Ive also noted that a large part of the delay was because Mr and Mrs Ds neighbours took in
the parcel. While its a relief to know that nothing untoward happened with the parcel, thanks
to their neighbours quick thinking, I cant hold Barclays responsible for a delay in a
neighbour giving the parcel back to Mr and Mrs D. So although it took Mr and Mrs D nearly a
month for them to get their wills back from Barclays, from when they first went into the
branch, the reality is it took 9 working days from their first visit to the branch to the wills being
dispatched (considering the bank holiday weekend). From when they were able to speak to
a person on 31 March 2021, the wills were dispatched on the second working day after this
(and delivered on the fourth working day after this).
So Ive thought about the compensation Mr and Mrs D want from Barclays to resolve their
complaint. Firstly, Mr and Mrs D want Barclays to cover the cost of their new wills which they
say cost them £400. But as Barclays advised them to delay setting up new wills, which Mrs
D acknowledged they told her in her summary of events, I dont think its reasonable to ask
them to pay for this.
I say this as while Mr and Mrs D said they would be classed as being intestate if they passed
away and their wills could not be located, I can only consider what did happen here and not
what might have happened as a result of Barclays failure to retrieve their wills at this time.
As Barclays were still trying to retrieve the wills at this point, then any decision to pay for new
wills was Mr and Mrs Ds own choice to do so. And as they had not been told by Barclays
that their documents had been lost or to get new wills, I cant hold Barclays responsible for
these costs.
Mr and Mrs D also wanted £400 compensation instead of the £200 they had been offered.
Im persuaded that Barclays have provided poor customer service at times during the events
which unfolded. Firstly, when Mr and Mrs D visited the branch and were given two telephone
numbers, it would have been good customer service for either the staff member to call the
telephone numbers on Mr and Mrs Ds behalf, or if they were unable to, let Mr and Mrs D
use a branch telephone to do so. If this had happened, then the staff member would have
quickly realised that the telephone numbers she had given them were incorrect for
Barclaysafe and this should have prompted her to investigate this further.
Its likely at this point she would have found out from a colleague or the Barclays intranet that
the only way to contact Barclaysafe was via email. And she could have sent the email to the
Barclaysafe department which would have saved Mr and Mrs D the frustration of queuing for
a long time in the branch, only to leave the branch with two numbers which werent relevantfor their query. While the system issues would have still delayed the retrieval of the wills, I
think by taking these actions, it would have reassured Mr and Mrs D that their request was
under control, so when they found out about the system issues they may not have been as
concerned as what they were by the delays.
While I can understand the reasons for Mr and Mrs D not receiving a phone call, Im satisfied
that Barclays set an expectation that they would receive one. While its not within my powers
to tell Barclays how they should plan to honour an agreement with a customer regarding a
phone call when a staff member is off sick, I do think this had an impact on Mr and Mrs D.
So Ive considered what would be a fair amount of compensation for Mr and Mrs D. Im
persuaded that the £200 that Barclays have offered is reasonable here. I say this as had
Barclays not offered any compensation for this complaint, then £200 would be in line with
our services awards for the type of complaint that Mr and Mrs D has brought to our service.
This is broadly in line with what I would have awarded them.
Im persuaded that this compensation is fair for the poor customer service that they had and
the multiple calls they had to make when Barclays did not contact them when they said they
would. But as I previously explained, I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr and Mrs D
making new wills, any failings within the postal service and delays from retrieving the parcel
from their neighbours. So I intend to ask Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs D £200.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays replied and said they had nothing to add. Mr and Mrs D replied and made 
a number of points.
In summary, Mrs D said the summary of facts was very fair. She said she was disappointed 
that the fear of coronavirus on their health and lives didnt appear to have been factored into 
the provisional decision as based on their health issues their fear was very real that they 
were in a vulnerable position. Mrs D reiterated that when they agreed to store their wills with 
Barclaysafe that on request, the wills would be received by them within two days and she 
would try and find the original documentation if it would alter my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs D has said regarding the health issues herself and Mr D had during 
this time. I had read about the issues originally, so I do want to explain to Mr and Mrs D that I 
understood the urgency of them wanting the wills back out of storage. But in terms of the 
complaint, Im not persuaded that this would have had an impact on the outcome of the 
complaint, and thats why I didnt focus on this aspect in my findings. 
I say this because in my provisional decision I said while Mr and Mrs D said they would be 
classed as being intestate if they passed away and their wills could not be located, I can only 
consider what did happen here and not what might have happened as a result of Barclays 
failure to retrieve their wills at this time. As Barclays were still trying to retrieve the wills at 
this point, then any decision to pay for new wills was Mr and Mrs Ds own choice to do so. 
And as they had not been told by Barclays that their documents had been lost or to get new 
wills, I cant hold Barclays responsible for these costs. So while I can understand the 
actions they took, based on their health and vulnerability, especially during the pandemic, I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for the actions Mr and Mrs D decided to take here, especially 
when Barclays advised them not to make new wills at that time.Ive then considered what Mrs D has said about being told they would receive the wills within 
two days, when they originally agreed to deposit their wills with Barclaysafe. I think it would 
be difficult for Barclays to agree to this as they may need to rely on a third party such as the 
postal service, or on a branch being open if they committed to two days for them to receive 
their wills  for example, if a will was requested on a Friday, then its unlikely the postal 
service or branch would be operating on a Sunday (which weekends are classed as non 
working days) to ensure this timeframe could be met. And when Mr and Mrs D requested 
their wills, this was around the Easter bank holidays which would also typically count as non 
working days. 
But ultimately, regardless of this, I said the following in my provisional decision; Ive thought 
about the timescales involved here. But regardless of whether it should have been 1-2 
working days or 5-9 working days, Im persuaded that as the system problems resulted in 
Barclays being unable to retrieve the documents, then the timeframe that they aimed to send 
out the documents wouldnt be able to be kept. Barclays explained to Mrs D on the 
aforementioned call that they were having delays in sending out the documents. So Im 
satisfied that they set an expectation that they wouldnt be able to send out the documents 
as quickly as they would normally do so.
I say this as its clear at the time of the call that Barclays didnt know what was causing the
system issues and they were investigating this. And the call handler was unable to say when
this would be resolved. So Im satisfied that the system issues here were unforeseen at the
time. So Mrs D does not need to provide me the original paperwork if she finds it, as this 
would have no bearing on the outcome of her complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
In summary, Mrs Ds response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed 
with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman