DRN-2931437
The complaint
Miss P say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester (Lloyds) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss P took out a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage in October 2008. 
Miss P paid a monthly amount of £35 for the policy. It provided a monthly benefit of £461.97, 
plus an additional £3 for every £1,000 of the original loan amount if Miss P was too ill to work 
or made involuntarily redundant. This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Miss Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Miss P that the policy was optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account. Lloyds says it would have done this. But Miss P 
says it was not made clear that it was optional, and she thought she had to have it. Miss P 
also says she was pressured into taking the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss Ps said, but pressure is a subjective area  what one 
person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Miss P hasnt provided a detailed 
account of what made her feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have been 
said during the meeting. So, without more information from Miss P, I cant say she was 
pressured into taking the policy.
Lloyds has provided a copy of Miss Ps mortgage paperwork, including a separate 
application form for PPI, which Miss P signed to confirm she wanted the policy added to her 
account. Lloyds has also provided a copy of Miss Ps mortgage agreement, which includes a 
separate section about insurance and refers to PPI under the heading Optional Insurance. 
So, I think Miss P was aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it at the time. 
Lloyds and Miss P agree that the policy was recommended to her. That means as well as 
giving Miss P enough information about the policy, Lloyds also had to check it was suitable 
for her. And based on what Ive seen, I think it was.
Miss P was eligible for the policy and she doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-
existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. 
Miss P says she was entitled to 12 months full sick pay followed by half pay from her 
employer if she was too ill to work. Miss P also says she had at least 12 months worth of 
other means she could have used. 
Ive thought about everything Miss P has said, but I dont think Lloyds was wrong to 
recommend the policy to her. I say this because its very unusual for an employer in the 
industry Miss P worked in to offer such generous sick pay to its employees and I dont think 
the likely sick pay she would have been entitled to would have meant the policy wasnt 
useful to her. The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss P did receive 
and she could have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period.
I also havent seen anything to suggest Miss P had access to 12 months worth of other 
means that could have helped her repay her mortgage in the event that she was off sick 
from work or was made redundant. The mortgage application form asked Miss P to confirm 
her other means and there are no relevant savings or insurances specified. It appears 
Miss P may have had life insurance or critical illness cover, but these policies provide a 
different type of protection to PPI. The advisers notes also say that Miss P had outstanding 
debts on a loan and credit card, and that Miss P was re-mortgaging in order to consolidate 
these debts. So, considering everything, I think the PPI could have been useful to her if she 
fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Miss P at the time it 
was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Lloyds was wrong to recommend the PPI to Miss P.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Miss P all of the other information she needed. But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put her off taking the 
policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Miss Ps home. And 
the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Miss P and I dont think she lost out because of 
anything Lloyds did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman