DRN-3835509
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly when they agreed to provide two 
credit card accounts and later increased the account limits to a level that was unaffordable.
Miss B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).   
What happened
In March 2016, Miss B applied to NewDay for a credit card account. NewDay assessed her 
application and agreed to provide a new account with an initial credit limit of £300. 
Over time, NewDay offered and increased the limit on Miss Bs credit card account on four 
occasions to a peak of £4,000. Shortly after the final increase, Miss B repaid what she owed 
to NewDay and her account was closed.
In December 2019, Miss B applied to NewDay again for a new credit card account. NewDay 
assessed her application and agreed to provide an account with an initial limit of £900. Over 
the course of the following 10 months, NewDay offered and increased the limit on this 
account on two occasions to a peak of £1,600.
In March 2021, the CMC submitted a complaint to NewDay on behalf of Miss B. They said 
theyd been unable to determine that NewDay took reasonable steps to assess Miss Bs 
ability to meet repayments without incurring financial difficulty. They thought NewDays 
assessment, if any, may not have been sufficient or reasonable as required under CONC 
5.2.2R (1).
They pointed out that Miss B had exceeded her account limit in December 2018, which was 
evidence of financial difficulty, and since the credit limit was increased, Miss B had incurred 
further charges as a result of financial difficulty demonstrating the affordability checks 
werent reasonable. 
They also said Miss Bs account balance rose to near the credit limit after each increase and 
supports that her financial circumstances had changed, and the limit shouldnt have been 
provided.
The CMC asked NewDay to
freeze any interest charged above the amount of the account limit prior to the 
increase; and
recalculate the account balance after removal of the interest, and
refund any interest and charges; and
pay 8% simple interest; and
remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file.
In response to Miss Bs complaint, NewDay didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly when the 
agreed to provide the credit card accounts or when they increased the limits.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think NewDay had acted 
irresponsibly when they agreed to provide Miss B with the two credit cards. But they didnt 
think NewDay had completed reasonable and proportionate checks when they increased the 
credit limits. 
Our investigator thought NewDay should refund all interest on any balance owed above the 
original limits agreed and where this resulted in Miss B having made overpayments, NewDay 
should pay 8% simple interest on that amount. They also thought NewDay should remove 
any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file and agree a suitable repayment plan.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said theyd completed all the 
necessary risk-based assessments when increasing Miss Bs credit limit and her account 
was managed appropriately. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review. In doing 
so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 November 2022  giving both Miss B and NewDay the opportunity 
to respond to my findings below before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable or irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive considered this when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
The rules and guidance relevant at the time were set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). These required NewDay to carry out an 
assessment using reasonable and proportionate checks to determine whether Miss B could 
afford to repay the credit cards in a sustainable way. Those checks needed to be borrower 
focussed and consider whether making the repayments could result in financial difficulties for 
Miss B.
This service believes that any checks needed to consider Miss Bs personal circumstances 
and would usually need to be more thorough:
the lower a consumers income; and
the higher the amount due to be repaid; and
the longer the term of the debt; and
the greater the number and frequency of debts.
Conversely, a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is far 
more likely to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate where the amount to be repaid is 
relatively small, the financial situation appears stable, and the debt is for a relatively short 
period.
In cases where there isnt evidence that proportionate checks were carried out, I need to 
consider if proportionate checks would likely have shown the credit was sustainably 
affordable.
Card 1
Miss B applied for her first card in March 2016. NewDays records show she had no reported 
account arrears and no payment arrangements or debt management programmes. There 
had been a default, but this was 19 months before. There was also a settled debt 
management programme. Miss Bs annual income was stated as £15,000 and she had 
existing unsecured debts of £3,700. There were no payday loans and seven existing active 
accounts. 
NewDay have said they use their own credit assessment tools together with data on income 
and expenditure and other information held by credit reference agencies. Miss Bs 
application passed NewDays credit assessment process. Having considered the information available to NewDay, I believe their assessment here met 
the requirements of CONC and their decision to provide an initial limit of £300 appears 
reasonable.
NewDay wrote to Miss B on each occasion they increased her credit limit. Each time they 
offered her the ability to refuse the increase. Miss B didnt do that here. They also asked her 
to provide any new and relevant information  nothing was provided. So, NewDay used their 
usual assessment methods and processes. The limit was increased in July 2016 to £1,300, 
December 2016 to £1,900, April 2018 to £2,900 and August 2018 to £4,000.
Over that entire period, Miss B exceeded her limit once by £8 which was promptly adjusted. 
There was only one instance of her payment being late. There was nothing adverse reported 
from her credit file to NewDay. Miss B did regularly make some cash withdrawals each 
month. While this could be considered a warning sign, they were always well within the limit 
available and proportionately small relative to her limit and available funds. I dont believe 
they would cause any great concern given the overall circumstances.
I did note in May 2016, her total unsecured debt increased by almost £11,000. I cant see 
anything to suggest NewDay specifically completed further checks to better understand what 
this related to. Particularly as Miss Bs total unsecured debt now exceeded her annual 
earnings. 
Ive looked at Miss Bs bank statements together with a copy of her credit report. I identified, 
and Miss B has confirmed, that the increase related to a vehicle finance agreement. It 
appears this was paid monthly without any apparent difficulty. So, as the debt increase was 
appropriately structured as a term loan which appears to have been affordable, Im not 
persuaded that further checks wouldve meant NewDay wouldve reached a different 
decision.
Miss Bs credit report shows only one arrears incident since Card 1 was first agreed to when 
the final limit increase was applied. I dont think this was enough to prompt concerns here. 
There were three instances of an arrangement to pay being recorded, but these all occurred 
after the final limit increase, so wouldnt have impacted any assessment.
Ive then considered Miss Bs bank statements from the beginning of 2016 to the end of 
2020. Miss Bs account initially benefitted from an overdraft limit of £500 which was 
increased to £700 in August 2019. The account appears to have been well run. And 
accepting the overdraft limit was regularly used, the account balance fluctuated month to 
month and often had periods when it was in credit. There were four or five small excesses of 
the limit over that five-year period and only one occasion when a payment was returned 
unpaid by the bank. 
There is evidence of a small direct debit of £8 each month to a debt advice charity. Miss B 
has explained this relates to a period when they assisted her in consolidating her debts. I 
dont believe this gives undue cause for concern. It suggests to me Miss B was addressing 
her financial situation in a positive way and had sought advice and support to help her 
budget. 
Having considered all the information, I accept that NewDay couldve possibly done more to 
verify Miss Bs financial circumstances each time they increased her limit. In particular by 
updating her income details and verifying her overall debt position. But Im aware much of 
this information is available to them through the credit information they receive. 
Ive also considered what further checks might have revealed. My overriding impression is 
that while Miss B did regularly use various credit facilities, they appear to have been very 
well managed with clear evidence of proactive budgeting. So, Im not persuaded that further 
checks wouldve revealed something that wouldve led NewDay to believe Miss Bs 
borrowing was causing financial difficulty and wasnt repayable in a sustainable way.
Card 2Miss B applied for her second card in December 2019. NewDays records show she had no 
account arrears and no adverse public records. There had been payment arrangements 
although theyd been settled. The last recorded default was 64 months before. Miss Bs 
annual income was again stated as £15,000 and she had existing unsecured debts of 
£1,500. There were no payday loans and seven existing active accounts.
Having considered the information available to NewDay, I believe their assessment here met 
the requirements of CONC and their decision to provide an initial limit of £900 appears 
reasonable.
NewDay increased Miss Bs limit to £1,100 at Miss Bs request in May 2020. They also wrote 
to her ahead of increasing it again to £1,600 in November 2020. Throughout that period, 
Miss B made repayments on time for more than the minimum and never exceeded the limit 
agreed. No adverse data was reported and there was no evidence of her debts rising to an 
unsustainable level. So, I believe the checks and tests completed by NewDay here were 
sufficient and their lending decisions reasonable.  
Summary
Having considered the various points raised by the CMC on Miss Bs behalf, many of them 
relate to events that took place after NewDay completed their assessments. So, I dont think 
theyre relevant to the outcome here. Im also aware the CMC had asked NewDay to remove 
adverse data reported on Miss Bs credit file. But as I cant see anything reported, I dont 
think thats relevant here either.
As Ive already mentioned, the information Ive seen supports my view that while Miss B did 
appear to regularly rely on credit facilities, they were well managed with little in terms of 
adverse warning signs. And certainly nothing that might suggest Miss B was in financial 
difficulty. So, while I realise she will be disappointed, I dont agree with our investigators 
findings and Ive found no reason to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay have responded confirming they agree with the findings in my provisional decision.
The CMC have confirmed receipt of my provisional decision which theyve sent and 
explained to Miss B. She hasnt provided any further comment or information to consider. 
So, Ive no reason to vary from my previous findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman