DRN-3700620
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a car. The 
car was three and a half years old and had a cash price of £15,995. 
Mr H says that, a few weeks after he got the car, it began going into limp mode and the 
engine management light (EML) came on. He complained to the dealer, who arranged a 
repair through the warranty service. 
In May 2021 Mr H took the car to the nearest of the garages approved by the warranty 
service for diagnosis of the problem. The garage carried out a repair to the crankcase 
breather system and intake line. Some of this work was covered by the warranty, but Mr H 
had to pay £190 plus VAT for the intake line. 
Mr H says the EML came on again very soon after hed got the car back from the garage - 
and the cars hybrid system stopped working altogether. He raised a complaint with 
MotoNovo, who obtained an independent engineers report on the faults.
MotoNovo sent Mr H a copy of the report, which stated the following conclusions:
We would conclude that the vehicle does display numerous fault codes requiring 
further investigation.
We do not consider the fault to have been present at sale after 57 days of further use 
based on the types of defect seen, sufficient time and mileage has elapsed for the defect 
to develop in hire and is considered a maintenance repair.
Mr H raised concerns to MotoNovo that this report hadnt got things quite right  including 
the cars mileage. In July 2021 Mr H took the car to a manufacturers garage, M, for 
diagnostic reports. He says M fixed the problem within an hour and returned the car to him 
fault-free. He sent copies of the diagnostic reports to MotoNovo. 
MotoNovo issued their final response to Mr H, saying his complaint hadnt been upheld 
because theyd seen no evidence that the faults would have been present or developing 
when they supplied the car. But they offered Mr H £200 compensation for the length of time 
theyd taken to reach an outcome. Mr H wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator contacted both the garages that had carried out repairs to the car. After 
reviewing the evidence, the investigator said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. He felt Mr H was able to use the car between March and July 
2021, although it wasnt performing as it should. So, he thought MotoNovo should refund 
20% of the payments made during that period to reflect the impaired use of the car.
The investigator was satisfied Mr H had incurred additional costs of £296.40 for diagnostic 
reports and £190 for an intake line because MotoNovo had supplied a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. So, he thought they should reimburse these amounts.
The investigator said Mr H had also experienced distress and inconvenience due to the 
problems with the car. He thought MotoNovo should pay Mr H an additional £100 in 
compensation for this.
MotoNovo didnt agree with our investigators view, so the case has come to me for a 
decision. Ill summarise the points MotoNovo made:
The evidence from the manufacturers garage confirmed there was a fault, but didnt 
confirm the issues would have been present or at least developing at the time the car 
was supplied to Mr H. 
As experienced and knowledgeable as many garages can be, this doesnt mean 
theyre suitably qualified to determine whether faults were present or developing at 
the time a vehicle was supplied. 
No garage that charges for carrying out repairs can be confirmed to be independent 
and unbiased, because its in their interest to find fault.
The independent report theyd provided concluded that the fault wasnt considered to 
have been present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr H. MotoNovo felt 
this report should carry more weight, because it was from a suitably qualified 
engineer who was able to comment on these issues. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Hs concerns about MotoNovo.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
So in this case, I consider it relevant for me to take into account that the car was around 
three and a half years old when it was supplied to Mr H. And it cost £15,995, which 
represents a significant reduction on what it wouldve cost new. 
The hire purchase agreement Mr H signed on 19 March 2021 records the cars mileage to 
have been 58,878. But I find it most likely that the mileage was recorded incorrectly here, 
because Ive noted discrepancies when comparing this to the mileage recorded by the 
engineers who later inspected and repaired the car. Ive seen MOT records showing the 
mileage to have been 53,878 when the car was tested on 28 January 2021. I consider it unlikely the mileage was much higher than this when the car was supplied to Mr H, around 
six weeks later. 
Having thought about its age, price, and mileage, I dont think a reasonable person would 
have the same standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. I think a 
buyer would probably expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But, given 
the price, I think theyd still expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it 
was supplied - and to be able to drive the car for a reasonable period of time without major 
issues.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. So, my starting point is to consider whether 
there were defects with this car.
It isnt disputed that faults were found with the car. Im satisfied these were significant faults, 
because Ive seen evidence showing the EML came on and the engine went into limp mode 
due to an issue with the crankcase breather system. And Mr H has told us that the cars 
hybrid system stopped working  and that the manufacturers garage advised him not to start 
the car.
But MotoNovo dispute whether the faults were present, or developing, at the time they 
supplied the car to Mr H. Ive considered this point in detail. The evidence Ive seen shows 
there were two main faults, which Ill discuss in turn. 
(i) Crankcase breather system
Mr H has told us that this problem first came to light on 17 May 2021, and that he took the 
car to the closest of the garages approved by the warranty company for diagnosis and 
repair. 
Ive reviewed what the garage told our investigator about this. They confirmed that Mr H 
first brought the car to them on 24 May 2021. They said they diagnosed a problem with 
the crankcase breather system, after finding a broken bolt which had gradually allowed a 
leak to develop. They said they replaced the intake line and a couple of O-ring seals, 
which had taken at least two days to complete. They confirmed Mr H paid for the intake 
line, for which he was charged £190 plus VAT.
The garage expressed no doubt that this problem had arisen due to a fault, rather than a 
wear and tear issue that would be expected of a car of that age and mileage. I also note 
that there were very confident this problem couldnt have developed during the relatively 
small amount of mileage Mr H had travelled in the car. For that reason, they believed the 
fault would have been present when the car was supplied to him.
I appreciate that this garage cant be said to be truly independent in this matter. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest bias in their view  or that they charged for work that wasnt 
necessary. 
Having carefully considered what the garage told us about the broken bolt, together with 
the relatively small amount of use Mr H had from the car before the problem came to light, 
Im not persuaded that this problem arose due to normal wear and tear. Im satisfied that it 
was due to a fault that was most likely to have been present, or developing, when the car 
was supplied. 
(ii) Hybrid battery cooling systemIve seen evidence showing Mr H had more problems with the car at the beginning of 
June 2021. Hes told us these issues were successfully resolved by M the following 
month. Ive seen a copy of Ms diagnostic reports showing the cars odometer recorded 
89,536 kilometres at that time, which is approximately equivalent to 55,635 miles. Ive 
also seen a copy of Ms invoice dated 16 July 2021, showing Mr H paid £296.40 for the 
work they carried out.
The first labour charge listed on Ms invoice relates to:
EML on dash  malfunction  a number of fault codes reported
Carried out star test found multiple faults stored and current (see printout supplied) 
Fault: P052E71 crankcase ventilation malfunction
So, I can see the car was showing a fault relating to the crankcase ventilation system, 
which I note to have been the part of the car that had recently been repaired. M have told 
us that some stored fault codes simply needed clearing. And theyve explained that stored 
faults that havent been cleared off the cars system can cause the EML to come on. 
The second labour charge listed on Ms invoice was for diagnostic work relating to 
battery management system faults. Ive seen a second invoice from M, showing the 
following work was then carried out free of charge:
carried out manual pressure test of low pressure battery cooling system. Blead battery 
cooling system...
M has provided further clarification about this. Theyve explained that, in their opinion, 
some work had been done to the battery cooling system in the past  and that it hadnt 
been bled correctly.
M havent provided any evidence as to how recently the problem with the cooling system 
was likely to have occurred. MotoNovo say theres no evidence showing the issues were 
present at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. Ive thought about this. 
But Ive seen that the issue with the battery cooling system came to light almost 
immediately after the first repair. Mr H says he hasnt had any work done to the cooling 
system - and Im satisfied that hed only travelled around 1,600 miles in the car by the 
time this problem came to light. So, I find it most likely that this problem was also already 
present when the car was supplied to Mr H. 
I accept M cant be said to have the same degree of independence as the engineer 
MotoNovo instructed to assess the car. MotoNovo also say Ms mechanic may be less 
qualified to comment on whether faults were likely to have been present or developing at 
the time the car was supplied to Mr H. For these reasons, MotoNovo feel more weight 
should be given to the independent report they obtained. Ive considered the points 
theyve raised here. 
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, relating to his visit dated 8 July 2021. 
Ive also seen additional comments provided in response to concerns raised by Mr H. Ive 
reviewed this evidence in detail.
The report says: based on the types of defect seen, sufficient time and mileage has elapsed 
for the defect to develop in hire and is considered a maintenance repair. But Ive seen no 
information in the independent engineers report as to what he considered the defect to have 
been. It says: Further investigation will be required to confirm the exact cause of fault and 
parts required.The engineers additional comments confirm:
 with regards to investigation work, there are occasions when specialist intrusive 
equipment is required that is only available to a [manufacturers garage].
As the independent engineer was unable to identify what was causing the problems with 
the car, I dont consider his evidence to be more reliable than that of M, the 
manufacturers garage who successfully diagnosed and resolved the problem. 
I also note that the engineer concluded: sufficient time and mileage has elapsed for the 
defect to develop in hire. But his evidence shows hed been told the car had travelled 
58,858 miles when it was supplied to Mr H - whereas he noted the mileage was 55,651 at 
the time of his inspection. So, I cant see that the engineer was able to properly consider the 
mileage the car had covered since it was supplied to Mr H. 
To summarise, Im satisfied that the problems with the car were due to faults that were 
most likely to have already been present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr 
H. And even if the fault wasnt already developing when he got the car, Im satisfied that 
Mr H was entitled to expect more than 1,600 miles use from it without the need for 
significant repairs. I think he could reasonably expect it to be more durable than this. So, I 
dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
Putting things right
Ive heard evidence from the garage confirming the cost of the first repair was partly 
covered by the warranty company, but Mr H had to pay £190 plus VAT for the intake line. 
And although M bled the battery cooling system free of charge, Ive seen that he paid 
£296.40 for the diagnostic investigations listed in their invoice dated 16 July 2021.
Im satisfied that Mr H incurred these costs because hed been supplied with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. So, I think its fair that MotoNovo should reimburse these 
amounts.
Mr H told us that the problems first came to light on 17 May 2021, at which point he stopped 
using the car for anything other than short journeys to avoid making things worse. Im 
satisfied that the car had to be taken to the garage for diagnosis - and that it was there for at 
least two more days for the repair to the crankcase breather system. Mr H told us he had to 
take the car back to the garage on 4 June 2021, because the problems had got worse. He 
says he was advised not to start the car until the issue with the electrics was resolved 
because it may be unsafe. 
Having thought about this, I think Mr H effectively had very little use of the car after 17 May 
2021 - and stopped using it altogether at the beginning of June 2021. Ive seen that the 
problems were resolved on 16 July 2021. So, I think it would be fair for MotoNovo to refund 
the rentals Mr H paid for these two months in which hes had very little or no use of the car. 
I think Mr H has also been caused some distress and inconvenience because of the 
problems with the car. Hes told us his wife was pregnant at the time, so I think hed be 
concerned at the thought of it breaking down during a journey. The car had to go into the 
garage for two lots of diagnostics and repairs. And Mr H has provided evidence showing he 
arranged a hire car for a journey he made in June 2021. So, I think it would be fair for 
MotoNovo to pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused here.For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo 
Finance Limited to:
Pay Mr H £190 + VAT for the intake line he paid for in June 2021, on production of a 
valid receipt or other evidence of payment,
Pay Mr H £296.40 for the diagnostic reports he paid for in July 2021,
Refund the payments Mr H made under the agreement for the period between 17 
May 2021 and 16 July 2021 to reflect his loss of use of the car,
Pay Mr H 8% simple yearly interest on each of the above amounts, calculated from 
the date he made each payment until the date of settlement, 
Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
If MotoNovo considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from the interest, they should tell Mr H how much theyve taken off. They should also 
give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H said he felt my provisional decision was fair and he had no further information to add.
MotoNovo didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided in response to my provisional findings, I see no 
reason to depart from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
Pay Mr H £190 + VAT for the intake line he paid for in June 2021, on production of a 
valid receipt or other evidence of payment,
Pay Mr H £296.40 for the diagnostic reports he paid for in July 2021,
Refund the payments Mr H made under the agreement for the period between 17 
May 2021 and 16 July 2021 to reflect his loss of use of the car,
Pay Mr H 8% simple yearly interest on each of the above amounts, calculated from 
the date he made each payment until the date of settlement, 
Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
If MotoNovo considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from the interest, they should tell Mr H how much theyve taken off. They should also 
give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman