DRN-2030555
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Retirement Line Limited when he 
approached it about transferring his pension plan, to purchase an annuity. Mr M says hes 
lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr M contacted Retirement Line by phone at the end of July 2019. He wanted to purchase 
an annuity. He had three existing pension plans. One with Legal & General (L&G), the 
second with his current employer, and the third was through a previous public sector 
employer. 
Retirement Line informed Mr M that it would not be able to deal with transfers from defined 
benefit pension plans and he would need regulated financial advice if his pensions consisted 
of defined benefit plans. He was told that Retirement Line didnt provide regulated advice. 
Retirement Line asked Mr M some questions about his pensions, asking him to look at the 
paperwork he had to see if they were defined benefit plans. Based on Mr Ms replies, it 
wasnt obvious to Retirement Line that his current employers pension was a defined benefit 
plan. But, during the call, it became clear that his former employers public sector scheme 
was a defined benefit plan.
During discussions with Mr M, Retirement Line explained that whilst it would try to establish 
the nature of his existing pension plans, and also see if there were any transfer penalties, he 
should also check the position with the pension providers himself. Retirement Line said it 
would contact Mr Ms pension providers to find out whether he had any safeguarded 
benefits. 
On 16 August 2019, Mr M was informed that if he was still making ongoing contributions into 
his pension plans, then this wouldnt be possible once his pension pots had been transferred 
to purchase the annuity. He was told he would need to open a new pension plan, if he 
wanted to make ongoing pension contributions.
Mr M completed the transfer application, which was received by Retirement Line on 30 
August 2019. Mr M completed the form to say that he wanted to transfer his L&G pension 
and his current employers pension. He selected the boxes on the form to say that both 
plans were defined contribution plans.
On 10 September 2019, Retirement Line was informed that Mr Ms L&G pension was still 
active and the last contribution paid into it was received in August 2019. It e-mailed Mr M 
about this. According to L&G, Mr M also contacted it to find out how he could make ongoing 
contributions.
On 17 September 2019, Retirement Line learnt that Mr Ms current employers pension plan 
was a defined benefit scheme.
On 18 September 2019, Retirement Line emailed Mr M to say that his current employers 
pension scheme was a defined benefit pension scheme and so that could not be transferred 
without regulated advice. 
By this time, Mr Ms L&G pension transfer was in the process of being transferred. His L&G 
pension was closed and no further contributions could be paid into it. Retirement Line told  
Mr M that L&G had said he could reverse the transfer, if he contacted L&G. 
On 22 September 2019, L&G issued Mr M with a leavers letter, notifying his payroll 
department that contributions could no longer be paid into his L&G pension plan.
The money from Mr Ms L&G pension pot was received by Retirement Line on 23 September 
2019. It was returned to L&G on 29 September 2019, and received back by L&G the next 
day. 
By reversing the L&G transaction, Mr M incurred a financial loss of £142.09. He also said his 
employer was unable to make contributions into his L&G pension for a few months, whilst 
the situation was being sorted out.
Mr M complained about this to Retirement Line who rejected his complaint. However, it did 
offer Mr M £250 as a gesture of goodwill, which Mr M didnt accept. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
She considered that Retirement Lines offer of settlement was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, and that Retirement Line could not fairly be required to do anything more.
She said although Retirement Line didnt provide Mr M with any financial advice, it had to 
provide him with sufficient information, in a clear and fair way, for him to be able to make an 
informed decision about his retirement planning. 
Our investigator explained that, if Mr M wanted to go ahead and transfer his current 
employers pension, as it was a defined benefit scheme, he wouldve needed to get 
regulated advice before doing so. This was a requirement put in place by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, to ensure that plan holders understood what they were giving up. 
Having listened to the call with Retirement Line, our investigator was satisfied that 
Retirement Line had explained the difference between defined benefit (final salary) and 
defined contribution (money purchase) schemes to Mr M. She said based on the responses 
Mr M provided, it seemed that Retirement Line had provided an annuity quotation based on 
both Mr Ms L&G plan and his current employers plans being transferred. As the third 
pension was provided through a public sector employer, it was thought likely that may be a 
defined benefit scheme and that was not included in the transfer request.
Also looking at the application form sent to Mr M following the call, our investigator noted 
that Mr M ticked no when asked if any of the funds to be transferred related to a defined 
benefit pension.
Based on all of this, our investigator was satisfied Retirement Line had provided sufficient 
information to Mr M for him to make an informed decision on his retirement options. 
Mr M also complained about the information he was given about on-going pension 
contributions from his employment with his current employer. These contributions were not 
being paid into his employers pension scheme, but the L&G one. When the L&G policy was 
transferred, it was closed to future contributions. However, our investigator said that it seemed that Retirement Line had told Mr M at the 
outset that he would need to set up a new plan post transfer to accept ongoing contributions 
into. She said once Mr M decided to reverse the transaction, Retirement Line wasnt in 
control of how long it would take before his employer could resume making contributions into 
his L&G scheme. So, she couldnt fairly hold Retirement Line responsible here. 
Our investigator said that whilst Retirement Line provided Mr M with the correct information 
pre-transfer, it couldve provided a better service. She felt that having learnt on 17 
September that Mr Ms current employers plan was a defined benefit scheme, on 18 
September 2019, when L&G contracted Retirement Line about the transfer, it shouldve 
asked L&G to hold on to transferring the funds until it had had a chance to speak to Mr M 
and check that he still wanted the transfer to go ahead.
She considered that Retirement Lines offer of £250 was a fair response, when assessed 
alongside other awards of compensation made by this service. Mr M had incurred a financial 
loss of £142.09. however, she thought the award also took account of the inconvenience   
Mr M had been caused. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr Ms complaint comes to me for a decision. Mr Ms said, in summary:
his financial loss was around £1,000 because he notified L&G the same day that he 
wanted to reinstate his L&G pension. But, it took months before it was reopened 
and during this time his employers pension contribution couldnt be paid into his 
pension and so he has lost out. 
He thinks hes lost out because Retirement Line gave him misleading information 
and misguided him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator, and essentially for the same reasons. I am therefore not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
To summarise, I think Retirement Line made it clear to Mr M at the outset that it could not 
provide him with regulated advice and that if any of his pension pots were defined benefit 
plans, it could not assist him with the transfer of these, as it could not provide him with 
regulated advice.
Retirement Line sought to clarify in the first call whether his plans were defined benefit 
plans or not. In relation to his current employers scheme, the information Mr M gave 
Retirement Line wouldnt, in my view, have enabled it to know whether it was a defined 
benefit scheme or not.
Mr M later completed a form telling Retirement Line that his current employers scheme 
was not a defined benefit scheme, but a defined contribution scheme. So, I can see why it 
looked like both plans could be transferred to purchase the annuity, without the need for 
regulated advice.
It became clear that Mr Ms current employers scheme was a defined benefit scheme in 
mid September 2019. As a result, Retirement Line, told Mr M (as it had originally), that it 
could not assist him further in relation to the transfer of this plan.The day after becoming aware of this, Retirement Line checked with L&G whether Mr M 
could reverse his decision in relation to the L&G plan. It told Mr M what it had learnt, and 
gave him the option of contacting L&G to cancel that transfer.
Retirement Line returned the money it received from L&G, in a timely way to enable Mr Ms 
L&G pensions to be re-instated.
Mr M lost out financially as a result of his L&G transfer being reversed. It cost him in the 
region of £142. Retirement Line, as a gesture of goodwill offered to pay Mr M £250 which 
covered this financial loss, plus around an extra £100
Like, our investigator, I think it might have been possible to hold up the L&G transfer on 18 
September 2019, had Retirement Line asked. I dont know if that wouldve been possible, 
given that L&G had previously indicated that it needed Mr M to contact it, to do this. But, I 
cant see that Retirement Line tried. And I think it shouldve. Mr M said he contacted L&G 
the same day, and it seems even doing this, his L&G pension wasnt re-instated for some 
time, so this may not have made much of a difference in any event. 
Retirement Line informed Mr M at the outset that if he went ahead with the transfers, he 
would need to set up a new plan to accept ongoing contributions into. And once it became 
known that Mr Ms L&G was going to be reinstated, so that ongoing contributions could be 
paid into that, Retirement Line wasnt in a position to control how long it took L&G and his 
employer to re-instate the payment arrangements that previously existed. So, I cant fairly 
say that Retirement Line is responsible for Mr M missing out on some employer pension 
contributions in the interim.
So, looked at overall, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I think the £250 compensation 
Retirement Line has offered Mr M fairly compensates him for the trouble and upset hes 
been put to here. I leave Mr M to decide now whether he wishes to accept Retirement 
Lines offer.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. If Mr M wants to accept Retirement Line Limiteds goodwill 
offer, Retirement Line Limited should pay Mr M £250 compensation, if it has not done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman