DRN-4209359
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Equifax Limited is displaying his electoral roll data incorrectly.
Mr S wants Equifax to amend the data.
What happened
According to screenshots provided by Mr S, both Equifax and ClearScore showed Mr S 
either living at or on the electoral roll at his current address since 2021. However, Mr S has 
provided evidence from his local council that he didnt move to his current address until mid- 
2022. Mr S was also unhappy to see that his current address was also displayed as a 
previous address. 
Mr S used an account with ClearScore to check his data. ClearScore isnt a credit reference 
agency but it gives customers access to the data that Equifax holds. 
After Mr S complained to Equifax it said its records showed that Mr S was first registered on 
the electoral roll at his current address from August 2022 and that this was what potential 
lenders would see. Equifax suggested there may be a display issue with ClearScore which 
meant it had him registered for 2021 to 2022 and 2022 to 2023.
After considering Mr Ss complaint, the investigator at this service thought Equifaxs data 
was incorrect and should be amended. The investigator asked Equifax to amend Mr Ss 
credit file and pay £100 compensation. 
Equifax disagrees with the investigation outcome. It says its system was working as 
designed and that ClearScore doesnt return rolling register information. Equifax points out 
that ClearScore isnt a credit reference agency and lenders dont use ClearScore to carry out 
credit checks.
Equifax says that as we are now in a new electoral roll year, Mr Ss ClearScore report would 
show as 2022  2023 for the full electoral roll entry. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding from Equifax is that because Mr S registered to vote around in mid-2022, 
a full electoral roll entry was loaded which meant it showed for 2021 and 2022. Equifax 
doesnt think that this was down to a mistake that it made. Equifax says that anybody 
checking Mr Ss file would have seen him on the electoral roll from August 2022. 
Mr S was understandably concerned that he appeared on the electoral roll at his current 
address for 2021 to 2022. Particularly as another business had chased him for payment of 
an outstanding bill that was due from the previous tenants at his current address. I take 
Equifaxs point that ClearScore isnt a credit reference agency so wouldnt be used to carry 
out credit checks. But Mr S wasnt to know this at the time and the evidence that hes 
provided shows that both Equifax and ClearScore showed him at his current address since 
2021. 
Although I appreciate that Equifax doesnt think it has done anything wrong, I agree with the 
investigator that it could have done more to assist Mr S rather than just passing him back to 
ClearScore and the council. I think the investigators recommended compensation award of 
£100 is a fair way to put things right for Mr S. 
Equifax has said that Mr S will now appear on the electoral roll at his current address for the 
period 2022 to 2023. If Mr S finds there is still an issue with the electoral roll dates, I 
recommend that he speaks to Equifax.  Equifax should also make sure that it doesnt list Mr 
Ss current address as a previous address. 
Putting things right
To put thing right, Equifax should:
make sure that the electoral roll information it holds for Mr S reflects the fact that he 
has been on the electoral roll at his current address since 2022 and not 2021; 
remove any reference to Mr Ss current address also being a previous address; and
pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Equifax 
Limited to put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman