DRN-2284972
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined its claim on its 
commercial motor insurance policy following the theft of its car. This complaint is brought on 
Ds behalf by Ms R, the directors wife. She wants UKI to pay the claim for the cars value, 
£36,000. 
What happened
Ms R said she left her car keys in her handbag inside a horsebox which was behind locked 
gates at her stables. She said a thief took the handbag and then stole her car which was 
parked nearby. UKI declined the claim because it said Ms R had failed to adequately 
safeguard her car as the horsebox wasnt locked and she wasnt within sight to deter a thief. 
Ms R disagreed as she later said the horsebox had been locked at the time. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ms R had 
first told UKI that the horsebox was unlocked. But he thought Ms R considered her keys 
were safe as they were in a handbag, out of sight in the horse box, behind a locked gate 
down a quiet lane. He thought Ms R had taken reasonable care to take precautions to 
safeguard her car keys. So he thought it was unfair for UKI to decline the claim. He thought it 
should settle the claim, with interest. 
UKI replied that the locked gate was no deterrent. It said Ms R didnt have the car or the 
door of the horsebox in her sight, so she couldnt deter any theft. It said Ms R hadnt taken 
reasonable care of her car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
UKI relied on a General Condition to decline Ds claim. This says that the insured must take 
reasonable precautions to safeguard their car from loss or damage. I think this is a common 
exclusion in policies Ive seen, and I think it was reasonably drawn to Ds attention in the 
policy documents. So I think UKI can reasonably rely on it to decline a claim. 
If there is an allegation that the insured failed to take reasonable care and this led to theft, 
then the test we apply is one of recklessness as defined by the courts. If the insured didnt 
consider there was a risk involved, its arguable that they werent acting recklessly. In order 
to be considered to act recklessly, the insured must have recognised that there was a risk 
and taken no steps to avert it or taken steps which they knew were inadequate. 
So Ive considered the circumstances of the theft of Ms Rs car. I think its agreed that the 
car had been locked and the keys were taken to steal it. Ms R kept the keys in her handbag 
along with other valuable and personal items. She placed the handbag out of view inside the 
horsebox with the door shut.
Ms R later said that shed locked the horsebox door with a combination lock. But Ive seen 
that she previously told UKI three times that the horsebox was unlocked. Also, she didnt 
report in the notification call that it had been broken into. I prefer to rely on what Ms R first 
reported as thats closer to the event. So I think the horsebox was unlocked.  
The horsebox was inside a locked gate. The car was parked on the verge outside. The 
investigation report describes the lane where the car was parked as a single-track road with 
little local traffic. 
So, given its valuable contents, I think Ms R considered her handbag to be safe and not at 
risk. It was out of sight, behind a closed door, away from her car, behind a locked gate in a 
quiet rural lane. So I think she took reasonable steps to safeguard it and its contents, the 
cars keys. In that case. I dont think Ms R acted recklessly. So I think it was unfair for UKI to 
rely on the policy condition of taking reasonable precautions to decline Ds claim. 
UKI thought that Ms R wasnt in a position to deter a thief as she was out of sight of the car 
and the horsebox door. But I think this would only apply when the keys were left in or near 
the car and had been used in its theft. UKI hasnt relied on this exclusion to decline the 
claim. The test in Ms Rs case is whether shed knowingly placed the keys, and her car, at 
risk, which I dont think she did.
Putting things right
I think UKI should now settle Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. D has been without its money for some time. So I think UKI should reasonably add 
interest to any settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of avoidance to 
the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman