DRN-2920818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt treated them fairly 
in their financial difficulties. It refused to capitalise their arrears, and later refused them a 
coronavirus payment deferral. They say they felt forced to sell their house for less than it 
was worth, incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Halifax. They also had a range of other unsecured debts, 
and were struggling to stay on top of their outgoings.
In order to help resolve their situation, Mr and Mrs S applied for a second charge secured 
loan to consolidate their unsecured debts. This would have reduced their outgoings on those 
debts from around £1,100 per month to around £400, making their overall financial situation 
much more secure.
However, the second charge lender told Mr and Mrs S that it would not be able to consider 
an application while the main mortgage was in arrears.
Mr and Mrs S asked Halifax to capitalise the arrears on their main mortgage, so that they 
could apply for the secured loan. Halifax said it could not do so until Mr and Mrs S had made 
their full mortgage payments for six months. It said that it would consider capitalisation if 
Mr and Mrs S kept up with their payments and kept the arrears balance below £425.
Mr and Mrs S generally made payments in the month after the monthly payment fell due. 
They had previously reduced the arrears as far as they could, and stuck to the agreement 
with Halifax. They say they struggled very hard to make sure they paid the full amount, 
though over the course of the month rather than all at once. Having to do this while still 
paying the full unconsolidated unsecured debt was very difficult for them, but they just 
managed it, at the expense of other normal family expenditure.
On 26 April 2019, Mr and Mrs S made a manual payment. As the mortgage payment wasnt 
due until the end of April, the mortgage went into credit by £75. Three days later, when the 
April payment fell due, it went back into arrears.
Mr and Mrs S asked Halifax to capitalise their arrears, because, they said, they had now 
made six months of payments. Halifax refused. It said it was also a condition of capitalisation 
that the account had to be in arrears throughout the six months  and Mr and Mrs Ss 
account had been out of arrears for three days. It therefore said it couldnt capitalise. 
Mr and Mrs S said this meant they wouldnt be able to take the second charge loan, because 
they couldnt show that lender they were no longer in arrears. This meant they couldnt 
consolidate their unsecured debt. And they could no longer sustain making those payments 
and the mortgage payments  they had managed it for the six months Halifax had said was 
needed, but under great strain.
Over the next few months the account fell further into arrears  by December 2019 there 
were several months worth of missed payments. There were further discussions between 
Mr and Mrs S and Halifax. They dont think Halifax treated them fairly or sympathetically, and 
didnt offer them the assistance it ought to have done.
By early 2020, they were still in arrears and Halifax was threatening legal action to 
repossess the property. When the coronavirus lockdown restrictions were introduced, Mr S 
was furloughed and their income reduced. Mrs S is unable to work because of health 
conditions. They asked Halifax for a payment deferral.
Halifax refused a deferral. It said payment deferrals werent available to customers in more 
than two months worth of arrears. It agreed a zero payment arrangement  which meant 
that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to make payments, but the missed payments were treated as 
arrears and reported to Mr and Mrs Ss credit files. Mr and Mrs S asked for a payment 
deferral in June, and were again refused. An arrangement of £300 a month was agreed.
Mr and Mrs S say that by this time they could see no way out. Their income had reduced, 
their arrears were growing and there was no longer any way of consolidating their other 
debts. They felt they had no choice but to put their property on the market. But they say that 
they sold it for less than it was worth, and had to pay Halifax an ERC because they were still 
in a fixed rate period.
Mr and Mrs S complain that Halifax hasnt treated them fairly. They say it should have 
agreed to capitalise the arrears in 2019, and if it had done so none of what followed would 
have happened. They say it didnt treat them fairly or sympathetically when their arrears 
worsened, and should have offered them a payment deferral in 2020. And they dont think 
its fair they had to pay an ERC when they sold their house  when they were forced to do so 
because of financial difficulty and because of how Halifax had treated them.
Halifax has issued various responses to Mr and Mrs Ss complaints. In May 2019 it offered 
£200 compensation for not clearly explaining why it could no longer consolidate. In July 
2019, it still said it couldnt consolidate the arrears. But it offered £150 compensation for 
calling Mr and Mrs S about the arrears while the matter was still under consideration.
In August 2019, Halifax offered to reconsider capitalisation if Mr and Mrs S made up the 
payments they had missed in May and June 2019, as well as making the August payment, to 
bring the arrears back below £425, and passed an income and expenditure assessment. But 
Mr and Mrs S were unable to do this.
In January 2021, Halifax said Mr and Mrs S werent eligible for a coronavirus payment 
deferral in March 2020 because they were more than two months payments in arrears at 
that time. But it could have reconsidered offering them one when they asked again in June 
2020. It offered a further £275 compensation for not doing so, and for the distress it caused 
by calling Mrs S when it had agreed not to. It also said it would have considered amending 
Mr and Mrs Ss credit file for July and August 2020, had they not redeemed the mortgage in 
July.
Our investigator thought Halifax should have considered capitalising Mr and Mrs Ss arrears 
in 2019. He said that he couldnt be sure the other lender would have agreed to consolidate 
their debts since an application had never been made  but Mr and Mrs S would have been 
able to make an application which if successful would have had a big impact on their 
finances. And he said it should have offered them a payment deferral  not a nil payment 
arrangement  in March 2020. He said Halifax should pay them a further £1,000 
compensation in addition to what it had already offered. And it should amend their credit files 
to show that the arrears position didnt worsen after March 2020.Halifax agreed to the further compensation the investigator recommended. But it didnt agree 
to amend their credit files. It said the report accurately reflected the account as it was at the 
time. The account had been in more than six months arrears before the March 2020 
payment deferral should have been put in place, and it would have continued to show that 
even if there had been a deferral agreed. Our investigator agreed with what Halifax said 
about that. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt think the investigators recommendation was enough to recognise the 
distress and upheaval they had been caused. They also wanted Halifax to remove all arrears 
reported to their credit files after June 2019  since they were confident the other lender 
would have lent to them. And they wanted Halifax to refund the ERC since they felt they had 
no choice but to sell the property because of the position it had put them in.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out how I thought the case should be resolved. I said:
Mr and Mrs S had been in financial difficulties for some time. Mrs S has explained 
her various health conditions, and Im very sorry to hear of the impact theyve had on 
her and the whole family. Theyve meant that she hasnt been able to work, and since 
she lost her previous employment benefits and moved onto state benefits, her 
contribution to the household income has significantly reduced. And at the same time 
Mr S has had variable income  including, for a time in 2020, being on furlough.
The result of all this is that Mr and Mrs S have experienced difficulties with their 
finances since at least 2017.
By 2018, they had put together a plan which they felt would help them put things onto 
a more sustainable footing. A large part of their problems was their level of 
unsecured debt, the total payments for which were double their mortgage payment. 
By consolidating their debts into a second charge secured loan, they would reduce 
their outgoings by £700 per month.
They hadnt formally completed an application with the second charge lender, but 
had been told one would be unlikely to be granted while they were in arrears on their 
main mortgage. With considerable effort, Mr and Mrs S reduced their arrears on the 
mortgage, and then reached an agreement with Halifax that the remainder could be 
capitalised  provided they didnt increase back above £425, and provided Mr and 
Mrs S made their payments for six months. The capitalisation was necessary 
because Mr and Mrs S couldnt bring down their arrears any further. Although £425 
was less than a months payment, they couldnt afford to move from a position of 
being a month behind to up to date, which would in effect require them to pay an 
extra monthly payment.
Mr and Mrs S agreed to this and managed to keep to all their payments. Because 
they were paying manually, and paying what they could afford as and when they 
could afford it, they made payments at various times during the month rather than on 
the payment due date. 
Because they also had to keep up with the unsecured debt at this time, this was very 
difficult for them and involved significant sacrifices for their family.
Towards the end of the six month period, they paid a monthly payment slightly early, 
just before it was due. This had the effect of  very briefly  putting the account slightly into credit. Once the next monthly payment fell due, three days later, the 
account fell back into arrears.
Halifax then said it couldnt consolidate the arrears. The period in credit meant that 
Mr and Mrs S now fell outside the criteria in its capitalisation policy.
I dont think this was a fair decision. I think Halifax applied its policy without giving 
any real thought to the actual situation in front of it.
Halifax knew Mr and Mrs S were in a very difficult situation. It knew Mrs S was 
vulnerable  indeed, their account was being dealt with by its specialist team for that 
very reason. It knew they had a plan to improve their situation  and it knew that plan 
was dependent on them being able to consolidate their arrears.
Its true that Mr and Mrs S were  briefly  not in arrears. And therefore  briefly  fell 
outside the capitalisation policy. However, if Halifax had thought about their situation 
at this point, it ought fairly to have realised that this was essentially a very temporary 
situation caused by a difference in payment dates. They werent in reality ahead with 
their mortgage.
Halifax taking a very rigid and strict policy-driven approach to their situation  rather 
than thinking about what was fair in Mr and Mrs Ss own situation  meant that 
suddenly their plan, which they had been working towards for months, was no longer 
viable.
Mr and Mrs S gave up the struggle to keep their monthly payments up to date, and 
didnt make the payments for May and June. By the time Halifax thought properly 
about their situation, and accepted that it could do the capitalisation after all, Mr and 
Mrs S were two months in arrears.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S missed these payments. It was only by special 
effort that theyd been able to keep up with everything in those months, and 
something had to give. Its unfortunate, though, that it was their mortgage  as 
secured debt should always be the priority. Be that as it may, by the time Halifax 
changed its mind, Mr and Mrs Ss arrears had grown.
In my view the fair thing for Halifax to have done at this point was to consider 
capitalising those two months as well  rather than insist Mr and Mrs S make them 
up first, when that was clearly not possible for them.
I therefore think that Halifax didnt act fairly here. It should have recognised that the 
reality of Mr and Mrs Ss account was that they were and continued to be in arrears  
but for an accident of timing in April  and agreed consolidation according to the 
original plan. And while it was prepared to reconsider that refusal, it didnt do so in a 
way that was practically possible for Mr and Mrs S to achieve it.
The result was that Mr and Mrs S lost the chance to follow through on their wider 
plan. They no longer had the option of applying for the secured loan.
No application was made, and it does seem Mr and Mrs Ss financial situation was 
precarious and their credit history was poor. So I dont think I can say its more likely 
than not firstly that the secured lender would have lent had the capitalisation 
happened, and secondly that even if it had this would have meant Mr and Mrs S were 
back on track and wouldnt have had to sell their property in 2020.I say this because Mr and Mrs S were also hit by the impact of the pandemic  with 
Mr S going on furlough with reduced income. In the run up to selling their property in 
July 2020, they asked for a reduced payment arrangement to fund the costs of 
selling. They told Halifax that they had reached an arrangement of making nominal 
£1 payments to their unsecured creditors with the assistance of debt advice.
Had Mr and Mrs S been allowed to consolidate, they would still have felt the impact 
of the pandemic. They would still have struggled with the mortgage. And had they 
consolidated their unsecured debts, they would have had a second mortgage to 
contend with  and wouldnt have had the option of reaching nominal payment 
arrangements with a second charge mortgage lender.
Im not therefore persuaded that Halifaxs errors in 2019 were the cause of Mr and 
Mrs S losing their home in 2020. I cant say its more likely than not they would have 
got the secured loan, or that its more likely than not that if theyd done so it would 
have solved their problems. But I do think that the failure of their plan before theyd 
even had the chance to try it, after the effort of getting as far as they did, caused 
them real distress for which its fair that Halifax compensate them.
For the same reasons, I cant say its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt 
have fallen into arrears anyway in later 2019 and early 2020, and so I dont intend to 
tell Halifax to remove those arrears from their credit file.
By the time of the pandemic, Mr and Mrs S were over six months in arrears. They 
applied for a payment deferral in March 2020, but Halifax refused. It said they werent 
eligible for one. But I dont think thats right. The regulators guidance doesnt say that 
customers in arrears arent eligible for a payment deferral. It says that an application 
for a payment deferral should be granted if the borrower confirms theyve been 
affected by the pandemic (as Mr S, on furlough, was)  unless it was clearly in their 
best interests not to. Theres nothing in the guidance as it was at that time about 
arrears of any level being a barrier to a payment deferral.
I dont therefore think it was fair that Halifax simply refused a payment deferral. It 
should have considered their application  and, unless it was clearly not in their best 
interests to do so  should have granted it. It didnt give any thought to that question.
However, it did agree first a nil payment arrangement, then an arrangement of £300 
per month, then another nil payment arrangement. I dont think agreeing a payment 
deferral would have made much practical difference at this point  since either way 
Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been asked to make any payments, and since either 
way their credit file would have continued to show they were 6+ months in arrears, as 
they were in February and March before the pandemic hit.
A payment deferral would have given Mr and Mrs S some peace of mind and some 
certainty about what would happen over the next few months. I dont, though, think 
that it would have made any difference to the overall outcome. Mr and Mrs S were 
already in significant arrears, and would have had to make up the missed payments 
for these months either way. Sadly, I think they were always going to end up in the 
position they did, of having to sell their property.
Mr and Mrs S also complain about how Halifax treated them in the months between 
the failure of the capitalisation and the application for a payment deferral. They were 
moved from the vulnerable customer team to the mainstream collections team. This 
was because, Halifax said, they had failed to keep in touch as agreed  though I can see from Halifaxs contact notes that Mr and Mrs S were having regular discussions 
with Halifax over this period.
Ultimately, though, I dont think this made a great deal of difference. The central 
issue in this case is with the management of the capitalisation process. Once that 
failed  which Ive dealt with above  and Mr and Mrs Ss arrears were increasing 
again, I think it handled matters fairly and reasonably. Mr and Mrs S have pointed to 
the mortgage rules, and say Halifax didnt offer things such as a term extension. But 
the rules only require options to be considered, not to be offered. And I think Halifax 
acted fairly by discussing Mr and Mrs Ss situation with them, looking at their income 
and expenditure and encouraging them to seek debt advice, and by not taking legal 
proceedings (though it did warn them this was a possibility).
Mr and Mrs S have pointed to one part of the mortgage rules, which says that a 
lender should also consider government forbearance schemes. There are no longer 
such schemes in England  but there are in Scotland, where Mr and Mrs S live. They 
say Halifax should have told them about those schemes. The rules dont specifically 
require Halifax to do that, they say it should consider whether one of the schemes 
was appropriate.
I agree it might have been helpful for Halifax to specifically draw these schemes to 
Mr and Mrs Ss attention. It looks to me like the leaflet it sent them is for the UK as a 
whole and so doesnt mention Scotland-specific schemes  which is less helpful for 
borrowers in Scotland. 
However, I dont think this necessarily caused Mr and Mrs S any detriment. I say that 
because the leaflet did refer them to debt advice  and borrowers can only access 
the Scottish governments schemes via debt advice, they cannot apply direct. And 
because theres no certainty that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to benefit from 
one of the schemes even if they had been specifically told about it.
Mr and Mrs S felt like they had no choice but to sell their home. Im sure that was 
very difficult for them, and distressing for them and their children. Theyre now in 
rented accommodation which is less suitable for their needs.
Ive already explained, though, why Im not persuaded that its more likely than not 
theyd have been able to keep their home had Halifax dealt with the capitalisation 
and the pandemic payment deferral application fairly. But Halifaxs failure to do so, 
especially in respect of the capitalisation, removed even the chance of a different 
outcome from Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S sold their home because of acute financial difficulties. They were being 
realistic, recognising there was little prospect of getting back on top of the mortgage 
in the near future  and recognising that if they didnt do so, there was a real 
possibility theyd lose their home instead through repossession. There are situations 
where sale of the property is the best way to bring things to a close, where continuing 
with the mortgage is more likely to make matters worse rather than better.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs S did feel forced to sell by their circumstances, even though they didnt 
want to It resolved their problems with the mortgage theyd had for a number of 
years. They were in significant financial difficulty, with no real prospect of things 
improving. And theyd had a plan to get out of those difficulties  while it might not 
have succeeded, they were prevented from even trying by Halifaxs failures in 2019.Taking all that into account, in the very specific circumstances of this case, I dont 
think it was fair for Halifax to have charged the early repayment charge Mr and Mrs S 
paid to exit their mortgage. And I think it would be fair to refund it to them.
Our investigator recommended that Halifax paid Mr and Mrs S an additional £1,000 
compensation in addition to the amounts it offered when it first responded to their 
complaints. Halifax accepted that, and I understand it has already made payment to 
them. That is very substantial compensation, and I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances of this case.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. They have 
been accepted by both parties, and Im satisfied its a fair way to put matters right. I adopt 
my provisional findings here.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to refund the early repayment charge, in addition to the 
compensation already paid. It should add simple annual interest of 8% to the refund, running 
from the date the ERC was paid to the date it is refunded. 
Halifax may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award but should give 
the calculations to Mr and Mrs S so that they can reclaim the tax from HRMC if theyre 
entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman