DRN-2544188
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Perspective (North East) Limited, 
then trading as Rutherford Wilkinson (RW), when she transferred deferred benefits from her 
occupational pension into a personal pension.
What happened
In 2007, Miss Hs employer (L) wrote to members of their final salary pension scheme and 
offered them incentives to transfer away from the scheme. They explained that the scheme 
was underfunded at 66.6% and so currently transfer values were reduced and early 
retirement wasnt available. They had decided as a one-off exercise to offer full transfer 
values (for Miss H that was over £15k instead of £9,600) with an additional cash incentive of 
around £1,400 which could be either paid into her new pension or directly to her.
Miss H told this service Ls accountant held a couple of meetings in the staff canteen during 
which he explained that the pension was running at a deficit, it was too expensive to 
maintain and continuing to run it might lead to job losses or closing down of the company. 
They had suffered losses in 2004 and 2005. Employees were recommended to seek 
independent financial advice before they made their decision on whether to accept the offer. 
They provided a website on where members could find financial advisers and noted as a 
second option that RW, who were providing services to L and the pension trustees, also had 
a team of independent financial advisers. This is where Miss H got RWs contact details 
from.
RW completed a fact find with Miss H which includes notes from the adviser that she wanted 
to transfer her pension. It was noted she didnt want to take RWs advice and instead choose 
the cash incentive offer regardless of the effects to her pension income.
RW issued a pension transfer report in which they recommended Miss H should not transfer 
her pension as the critical yield was too high and would mean Miss H would need to take a 
significant degree of investment risk to achieve a higher pension in retirement. It also said 
her pension would be considerably less secure if she transferred out. The investment risk 
would be transferred from the scheme to Miss H. RW did also mention that she was giving 
up various guarantees. They mentioned the underfunding of the scheme but explained that if 
L became insolvent and couldnt meet its liabilities her benefits would be protected through 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) meaning 90% of her pension effectively would be safe.
RW also sent Miss H two follow up letters which reiterated that their recommendation had 
been not to transfer and why. But these letters noted Miss H had decided to not take their 
advice as she wanted to take the cash incentive. RW noted that Miss H had requested for 
her pension benefits to be transferred to a group personal pension. RW established that 
Miss H had a balanced attitude to risk and recommended she should invest in the default 
fund established by the scheme which was a balanced managed fund with a lifestyle 
strategy, meaning the fund could be invested in lower risk options when Miss H got nearer to 
retirement. 
In 2019, Miss H complained about the advice she was given. Colleagues of hers had been 
part of a review exercise by Perspective and some had received compensation. So Miss H 
also wanted her advice to be reviewed.
Perspective informed her the review had been completed and she had not opted-in for her 
case to be reviewed. It was now too late. They also explained that their advice to her had 
been not to transfer and she had gone against their advice.
Miss H referred her complaint to us. An investigator reviewed her complaint and didnt 
uphold it. She thought Miss H had received suitable advice not to transfer.
Miss Hs representative disagreed. He pointed out that for several colleagues who had been 
part of the review and received compensation, Perspective had admitted that the decision to 
transfer was influenced by weaknesses in the advice process. As the advice process had 
been identical for all members of the scheme, the same would apply to Miss H. He said Miss 
H was adamant she and her colleagues had been advised to leave the final salary scheme 
and were given the impression they were being offered a good deal. If she had known she 
was losing benefits she wouldnt have transferred. The representative said the advice letters 
were merely a papering exercise.
He also noted that there was no evidence Miss Hs needs and objectives were properly 
explored and that she wasnt clearly informed about the PPF. The advice given in the initial 
group presentations which emphasised the advantages of leaving the scheme was different 
to the written advice later given to individual employees.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I dont have jurisdiction to investigate how Perspective conducted the review or 
whether Miss H should have been part of this. This isnt a regulated activity. Id generally like 
to note, however, that whilst the advice process was likely similar for all members, every 
member has different circumstances and objectives and so it cant be assumed that because 
some of her colleagues received compensation, Miss H would have received the same.
The issue for me to consider is whether RW gave Miss H suitable advice in 2007 and, if not, 
whether their actions have led to any losses she might have suffered by transferring her 
pension.
I dont doubt that Miss H was being encouraged to leave the scheme by her employer. The 
scheme was in deficit, they had made losses during the previous years and they offered 
incentives for employers to transfer out of the scheme to save costs. Whilst RW might have 
been present at these group presentations, Miss H confirmed the presentations were led by 
Ls accountant. 
The written evidence Ive seen from the time of sale indicates that RW clearly advised her 
not to transfer-which was suitable advice. The risks were explained and reasons for their 
advice were provided. They reiterated in a couple of letters that Miss H was acting against 
their advice. So on balance I think this should have been reasonably clear to her. They also 
mentioned she was giving up promised benefits. So I cant agree that Miss H wasnt given 
any information about this.This doesnt mean I think the advice process was perfect. The fact find was fairly 
rudimentary and even though the recommendation letter refers to the transfer analysis 
report, Im not sure how clear it was made to Miss H what was exactly she was giving up. 
RW also could have made it clearer that Miss H likely would be worse off in retirement if she 
transferred. Its also not entirely clear what happened after the recommendation report was 
provided to Miss H. RW provided advice on where Miss H should invest her pension and 
facilitated the transfer. So they were effectively treating her as an insistent client. However, 
good practice at the time to ensure a customer was a genuine insistent client was to get 
them to explain in their own words that they understood they were going against advice and 
explain in their own words why they decided to do this. Theres no evidence of this.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between Miss H and the adviser. As explained 
above I think based on the paperwork Ive seen she likely did know RW was advising against 
the transfer, that she was giving up guarantees and that she would be exposed to a lot more 
risk in a personal pension. The guarantees of the PPF were also mentioned in the 
paperwork. So it doesnt look to me that she was misled to think transferring would give her 
a better pension. However, even if I assumed, the advice process wasnt clear enough or the 
insistent client process was flawed and things should have been explained better, I still think 
Miss H likely would have transferred in any event. 
I say this because her employer had told her there was a risk of job losses if the scheme 
continued and she said she was concerned about this. Even though her pension would have 
been protected through the PPF and she likely would have been better off staying in the 
scheme, I think on balance she would have been more worried to lose her job than risk a 
decrease in her pension benefits. And I think its plausible that this was a concern for many 
members who transferred out. If someone wanted to retire early the announcement that this 
wouldnt be possible for the next few years might have also been a reason to take up the 
offer of an enhanced transfer value. My key point here is that given Ls financial position and 
what they were telling their employees, the fact that many did transfer is not necessarily a 
sign that they were misled by RW.
Miss H was still many years from retirement and had other pension provisions, so I think she 
wouldnt have viewed these pension benefits as something she had to protect at all cost and 
prioritise over her job security. The adviser wouldnt have been in a position to reassure her 
about this as the decision whether to make redundancies or close down the business would 
have been down to L and given their financial position this was not an impossible outcome.
Overall, I think RW did give suitable advice not to transfer. And even if there were flaws in 
the process, I think Miss H likely would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. 
So she would be in the same position shes in now.
Once transferred, I consider using her funds to invest in her existing group personal pension 
in a balanced fund was a suitable recommendation.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman