DRN-3677734
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the quality of a car supplied to her under a hire agreement with Lex 
Autolease Limited. She also complains about the amount of money that was refunded to her 
after the agreement was terminated.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs K entered into a hire agreement with Lex for a new car. Under the 
terms of this agreement, she was required to pay an initial rental of £2,948.26, followed by 
47 monthly rentals of £491.38. 
Mrs K says she had a number of problems with the car after it was delivered to her on 29 
October 2021. She provided a timeline of these events, which Ill summarise:
Date Problem How resolved
29 November 2021 Window stuck in the open position One week at the garage 
9 December 2021 Wouldnt start due to malfunction Fixed by breakdown service
20 January 2022 Engine cut out due to malfunction Restarted after 10 minutes
22 January 2022 Engine cut out due to malfunction Restarted after 10-15 minutes
22 January 2022 Engine cut out due to malfunction Car rejected
Mrs K told us that she was in the middle lane of a three-lane dual carriageway the last time 
the vehicle cut out. Fortunately, she was able to manoeuvre to the side of the road. But Mrs 
K says she found this situation very upsetting and believes she could have been seriously 
hurt. She says the car was recovered to a garage by the police after around three hours.
Mrs K raised a complaint to Lex, saying she didnt want to drive the car again. But on 4 
February 2021 she was told the car had been repaired. She says she was told she needed 
to collect the car, or shed be charged for continuing to use the courtesy vehicle.
On 7 February 2022 Lex issued a final response, supporting Mrs Ks right to reject the car. 
They said theyd terminate her contract at zero cost and refund the unused portion of the 
initial rental payment. They paid Mrs K £300 to recognise the inconvenience shed 
experienced, plus a loss of enjoyment payment of £67.85 for having to use a courtesy car for 
three weeks. Lex later paid Mrs K another £100 to cover the cost of petrol for the courtesy 
car theyd provided.
The car was collected from Mrs K on 28 February 2022, by which time it was noted to have 
travelled 1,416 miles.  Lex then sent Mrs K a refund of £2,200.96 for the unused portion of 
the rental payments. Unhappy with this, Mrs K asked our service to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator explained that the initial rental payment had included a spread payment of 
£2,456.88, which reduced the monthly payments by £51.18. He said Lex had advised an 
error had been made when calculating the number of spread payments to be deducted from 
the amount to be refunded  and that theyd be sending Mrs K a further cheque for £51.18 
for this. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Lex to charge Mrs K for the periods theyd 
provided a car for her use. But he thought it would be fair for a small proportion of the rental 
payments to be refunded, to reflect the fact that the courtesy cars hadnt been to the same 
specification. He said he wouldnt expect Lex to provide a courtesy vehicle after the car had 
been collected, as the agreement was no longer active at that point. He felt Lexs refund of 
£467.85 fairly recognised the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs K. 
The investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Lex to pay for the charging point that had 
been installed for this car, as this was something Mrs K had chosen to do and may provide a 
benefit in the future. And he didnt think Lex should be asked to refund the cost Mrs K had 
paid to the broker, as this was a service shed received and was outside of Lexs control.
Mrs K remained unhappy with the final settlement from Lex. She said she didnt understand 
why her initial payment of £2,948.28 hadnt been returned to her in full - and felt she was still 
out of pocket by £204.76. Mrs K didnt consider the amount of compensation Lex had paid to 
be enough for the stress and aggravation shed suffered. She asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision on her case. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Mrs Ks complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mrs Ks concerns about Lex.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
says under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Lex in this case  has a responsibility 
to make sure the goods are of satisfactory quality. 
Lex agreed the car they supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality and that it should be rejected. 
So I dont need to discuss point this in any detail, other than to say I agree this was the case. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Lex have done enough to put things right. 
Mrs K says the car wasnt fit for purpose from the outset, so she expected a refund of 
everything shes paid. But the CRA explains that, when Mrs K exercised her right to reject 
the car, she was entitled to a refund of anything shed paid for a period of hire she didnt get. 
Ive considered whether Lex complied with that requirement.
Although Mrs K had problems with the car, Ive seen evidence showing it had travelled more 
than 1,400 miles by the time it was collected. Lex provided a courtesy car for her to use 
while the car was being repaired, so Im satisfied she had the use of a vehicle from 29 
October 2021 to 28 February 2022. And I think its fair for Mrs K to pay for that period of use. 
Lex have provided a copy of the hire agreement Mrs K signed, which sets out the costs of 
hiring the car. Ive seen Lex agreed to provide the car for a minimum period of 48 months. 
For that hire period, Mrs K was required to pay an initial rental of £2,948.26, followed by 47 
monthly instalments of £491.38. 
Lex have explained that the initial rental covered the first monthly rental payment, plus a 
spread payment. Theyve said the spread payment is applied equally over the contract 
term to reduce the customers regular monthly payments. I can see that, if Mrs K had kept the car for the full 48-month period, the total amount 
payable would have been £26,043.12. So, although the payments werent spread evenly, Im 
satisfied the cost of the car worked out at £542.57 per calendar month. 
Mrs K paid the initial rental and three monthly payments, so shed paid £4,422.40 in total. 
After the car was collected, Lex initially refunded her £2,200.96, followed by another £51.18. 
So, this means she paid a total of £2,170.26 for four months use of the car. Im satisfied this 
is the amount Id expect Mrs K to be charged - working out at £542.57 per calendar month. 
So, I dont think Lex needs to do anything further here.
Mrs K says she wasnt able to use the car for three weeks whilst faults were being repaired, 
during which time Lex gave her a courtesy vehicle. They paid Mrs K £67.85 as 
compensation for this not being a like-for-like replacement, plus £100 to cover additional fuel 
charges she incurred by having to buy petrol. Mrs K said petrol for the courtesy car cost her 
almost £70. So, I think Lex have acted fairly and reasonably here.
Mrs K has told us that she felt very angry and stressed at being told to return the courtesy 
car once the repair was complete. The records Lex have provided show Mrs K was told the 
car was ready for collection on 4 February 2022. I can appreciate this would have been 
distressing for her. But Im satisfied that she didnt have to worry about this for very long, 
because three days later Lex agreed the car should be rejected and advised Mrs K how to 
arrange collection. 
I can understand Mrs Ks reluctance to drive the car again after it was repaired. The 
evidence Ive seen shows she told Lex she wanted to reject the vehicle on 24 January 2022. 
Ive given careful thought to whether theyve treated her fairly here. 
But the evidence Ive seen shows Mrs K asked whether shed be allowed to think about 
Lexs offer of terminating the agreement before she decided to request the collection date of 
28 February 2022. So, Im not persuaded Lex were responsible for any delay in collecting 
the car and terminating the agreement. And as Mrs K had the option to use the car until the 
date shed chosen to have it collected, I dont think Lex had any obligation to provide her 
with a courtesy car as well.
Its clear Mrs K experienced a number of issues with the car during the four months she had 
it. And although Lex provided courtesy cars for her to use, I can see shes been caused 
inconvenience each time. This has included having to wait for the car to restart, calling an 
emergency breakdown service, booking the car into a garage for repair, or getting a taxi 
home. I can understand how distressing Mrs K found the last breakdown, which happened 
on a busy road. But Lex have paid £300 for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused - and I do think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mrs K feels Lex should cover the cost of the charging point she had installed to charge the 
car, which she says cost her £500. But I think this is likely to be useful for charging another 
car Mrs K has in the future. So, I dont consider it fair for me to direct Lex to cover this cost.
Ive seen evidence showing that, on 30 September 2021, Mrs K instructed a broker to set up 
the 48-month lease agreement with Lex for her  for which the broker charged a fee of £198. 
But because the car Lex supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality, Mrs K was left without a car 
after just four months. So, I think Lex should reimburse the cost of the brokers fee. 
Mrs K says that, having handed this car back, she cant afford to lease an equivalent car. I 
can understand her frustration here. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Lex accountable for this, in this case. For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint. 
To resolve this complaint, Lex Autolease Limited issued a further cheque to Mrs K for 
£51.18, taking the total refund to £2,252.16. I think thats fair. So, my decision is that Mrs K 
should receive this amount;
And 
For the reasons Ive explained, I also direct Lex Autolease Limited to reimburse Mrs K £198 
for the brokers fee she paid, plus 8% simple interest, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement. 
If Lex consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
provide Mrs K with a tax deduction certificate so she can reclaim the tax, if shes eligible. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Lex didnt make any further comment. 
Mrs K remained unhappy about the spread payments. She said shed understand shed be 
expected to pay the full amount that had been agreed in the contract if shed simply decided 
to terminate the agreement early, of her own accord. But as Lex had supplied a car that was 
faulty with a number of problems, she didnt think my decision was correct.
Mrs K provided a copy of the complaint shed made on 24 January 2022, in which shed said 
she didnt want to drive the car again. She said Lex had offered her time to decide whether 
she wanted to keep the car  and that this wasnt something shed requested as she was 
never going to keep it. 
Mrs K explained that Lex wanted her to make her direct debit payment in March as usual, 
without telling her how much of her initial payment theyd be returning to her. But shed 
cancelled the March payment, because she felt what they were suggesting was ridiculous. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs K for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Ive given 
careful thought to the points shes made, but Im not persuaded that I should depart from my 
provisional findings. Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I said I was satisfied that Mrs K had the use of a vehicle from 29 
October 2021 to 28 February 2022 - and that I think its fair for her to pay for that period of 
use. I explained that I was satisfied the amount Mrs K had paid worked out at £542.57 per 
calendar month, which is the amount Id expect her to be charged
Mrs K feels she shouldnt have to pay the full amount set out under the terms of the 
agreement due to the problems she had with the car. But Lex have paid her £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced, a further £67.85 for having to use a courtesy 
car for three weeks, and £100 to cover the cost of petrol for the courtesy car. I remain of the 
view that Lex have done enough to put things right here.Mrs K says she didnt ask for time to decide whether to keep the car - and that she told Lex 
that she didnt want to drive it again when she raised a complaint on 24 January 2022. But 
Ive seen a copy of their final response to her complaint, dated 7 February 2022, in which 
they agreed to terminate the contract and advised her she could arrange collection through 
their website. Ive seen no new evidence to persuade me that Lex were responsible for any 
delay in collecting the car and terminating the agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Lex Autolease Limited issued a further cheque to Mrs K for £51.18, taking the total refund to 
£2,252.16. I think thats fair. So, my decision is that Mrs K should receive this amount;
And 
I also direct Lex Autolease Limited to reimburse Mrs K £198 for the brokers fee she paid, 
plus 8% simple interest, calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
If Lex consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
provide Mrs K with a tax deduction certificate so she can reclaim the tax, if shes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman