DRN-2889387
The complaint
Mr B complains Sainsburys Bank Plc closed and defaulted his loan despite only missing one 
payment. 
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Sainsburys Bank in 2018 and has told us that in late 2019 he 
moved abroad for work. Mr B says that, due to an oversight, there wasnt enough money in 
his bank account to make his February 2020 payment. As Mr B was abroad, he wasnt 
receiving post. 
Mr B continued to make subsequent payments by direct debit but the loan remained one 
month behind. 
Sainsburys Bank sent Mr B an arrears letters in March and April 2020. At the beginning of 
May 2020 Sainsburys Bank sent Mr B a notice of default that said he needed to clear the 
arrears by 4 June 2020. As no payment was received, Sainsburys Bank took the step of 
closing the loan account and recording a default on Mr Bs credit file.
Around this time, Mr B returned to the UK and found Sainsburys Banks correspondence. 
When Mr B called he wasnt asked to repay the missed payment. The call handler also told 
Mr B to cancel the existing direct debit and start making payments by other means. 
Mr B went on to complain but Sainsburys Bank didnt agree it had made a mistake by 
closing his loan and recording a default on his credit file. Sainsburys Bank paid Mr B £100 to 
apologise for the service provided when he called on 10 June 2020. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Ultimately, 
they felt Sainsburys Bank had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr B asked to appeal and has explained the issue was caused by a genuine 
oversight and that the default has affected his ability to get a mortgage. As Mr B asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B was abroad during the period in question and wasnt receiving his post. 
But I havent seen anything that shows Sainsburys Bank was aware Mr B was abroad for a 
reasonably long period or unable to receive mail. 
In his response to the investigator, Mr B said he was only sent one letter before Sainsburys 
Bank took the decision to close his account and report a default. But Ive been sent copies of 
the letters Sainsburys Bank issued. As Ive set out above, there were at least two arrears 
letters sent, then a notice of default asking Mr B to make a payment to clear the arrears. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank did write to him about the position 
of his loan along with a warning that it would close it if the arrears werent repaid by 4 June 
2020. 
Ive also considered whether the decision to default Mr Bs loan on the basis it was only one 
payment in arrears was fair. Industry guidance says businesses can take the step of 
defaulting an account thats been in arrears for three months or more. In this case, Mr B 
missed the February 2020 payment and it wasnt made up before the loan was closed and a 
default reported in June 2020. Thats in line with the timescales in the guidance. I havent 
been persuaded it was unfair of Sainsburys Bank to default Mr Bs loan. 
Whilst I know its not the main focus of Mr Bs case, I can see Sainsburys Bank apologised 
for the service it provided when he contacted it about the default and complaint. Mr B was 
incorrectly told to cancel his direct debit instruction and Sainsburys Bank says it took too 
long to issue its final response. I can see some inconvenience was caused to Mr B but Im 
satisfied the £100 settlement Sainsburys Bank has paid is fair in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Sainsburys Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman