DRN-2431694
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim for storm damage under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F found damp patches on the ceiling and the wall around the chimney in a bedroom. She 
contacted UKI to make a claim for storm damage, as she thought water had leaked through 
the flat roof. UKI assessed the damage. It accepted the claim for the internal damage under 
the accidental damage part of the policy. However, it declined the claim for damage to the 
roof because it said it was due to poor workmanship and gradual process loss.
When Ms F complained to UKI, it replied and maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
UKI said that the damage was caused by general wear and tear, not a one-off storm event or 
other insured peril.
So, Ms F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
that it was reasonable for UKI to turn down the claim on the basis of wear and tear.
As Ms F did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I understand Ms F will be disappointed by this, 
but I will explain why I have made this decision.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports around the time Ms F said the damage 
happened to see if conditions were such that they would be considered a storm. Having 
done so, I didnt see any wind speeds in the weeks before the claim that would be 
considered severe enough to be storm conditions. However, there was a fairly large volume 
of rainfall that would be considered to be storm conditions. So, I think the answer to the first 
question is yes.
On the second question, I dont think that a fairly large volume of rain, that I note wasnt 
accompanied by storm winds, would typically cause a flat roof to leak unless there was an 
already existing issue with the roof. So, I think the answer to this question is no.
As a result, I havent considered the third question. However, Im aware that Ms F disputes 
the findings of UKIs surveyor about the damage. She explained that she had shown the 
photos to builders who had said there was no evidence of poor workmanship to the roof. She 
also said that the rain had entered due to the roof being damaged at the front of the 
chimney, rather than at the back of the chimney as UKIs surveyor had said. However, Ms F 
hasnt provided any expert evidence, such as a report, that shows there was storm damage 
to the roof. 
Looking at UKIs report, I think it was reasonable for it to rely on its experts findings and for it 
to decide that the damage was the result of poor workmanship and wear and tear. Having 
read the policy booklet, neither of these are covered under the terms of the policy. So on that 
basis, I think it was reasonable for UKI to turn down the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman