DRN-4296262
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a 
claim on their travel insurance policy. 
For ease of reading reference to Admiral includes those acting on its behalf. And all 
submissions will be referred to as being made by Mrs M directly.
What happened
Ive only set out what happened very briefly as both parties are aware of the background to 
this complaint.
Mrs M became unwell during a trip to a country Ill call E. She was taken to hospital at the 
time and needed treatment, so a claim on the travel insurance policy she and Mr M held 
together was made. 
Admiral accepted that claim but said it could only settle it on a proportionate basis. It 
explained that on review of the available evidence, itd become aware of pre-existing medical 
conditions that hadnt been declared for Mrs M when the policy was purchased. It said it 
would have charged a higher premium for the policy had it been aware of those conditions, 
and so, it would only settle the claim proportionally at 58% of cost. 
A complaint about both the proportionate settlement and the overall handling of the claim 
was raised. But Admiral maintained its position on the settlement and said thered been no 
avoidable delays either, so Mr M and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. 
Mrs M explained that she no longer wanted us to consider the proportionate settlement part 
of this complaint  because Admiral had gone on to agree to cover the costs in full and 
outside of the policy terms. But she did confirm she remained unhappy with the level of 
service that had been provided, and felt an award of compensation was warranted for that. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and didnt think Admiral had handled the 
claim as promptly as it could have done. They were however mindful that Admiral had 
agreed a settlement outside of the policy terms, and so they recommended it paid £100 
compensation as a fair reflection of the impact its delays.  
Admiral accepted that recommendation, but Mr M and Mrs M did not. Mrs M said £100 did 
not justify the amount of time that had been spent dealing with the matter, nor the levels of 
stress and anxiety that had been caused. She explained the least that would be accepted 
would be £1,000, so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has told this service she no longer wants us to consider the proportionate settlement 
aspect of this complaint so I will not do so. The matter that remains in dispute however is in 
relation to compensation, and for the reasons Ill now explain I wont be awarding an 
increase on the £100 recommended by our investigator:
As an insurer Admiral was entitled to time to assess this claim. So, for example, time 
to make information requests to help it decide cover, and time to work out what its 
revised position on settlement needed to be once it became aware of the undisclosed 
pre-existing medical conditions. It also had to take some time to negotiate the costs 
being charged by E. 
Mrs M has spoken at length about the failings they feel occurred in this complaint. I 
wont recite them all, but shes referenced the amount of time she had to spend 
dealing with the matter, Admiral misplacing information shed already provided to it, 
and her experiences of the treating hospital in E. While I thank Mrs M for taking the 
time to set these out I cannot hold Admiral responsible for the actions of the hospital 
in E. 
Admiral did however have a responsibility to handle this claim both promptly and 
fairly, and I dont think it always did that. For example:
Admiral requested medical evidence from Mrs Ms GP on 27 December 2022 
and did not receive it until 26 February 2023. Admiral was not responsible for 
the time it took the GP to provide this information. But it hasnt been able to 
show this service that it took any steps to try and lessen the significant delay 
that was being caused on the claim here, by following up on the outstanding 
information request during that two month period as an example. 
Admiral also took around seven weeks from receiving that information to 
raising payment, which again added to the length of time this claim had been 
going on for and the subsequent frustration that was causing. 
So, some of Admirals actions did lead to additional distress and frustration being 
experienced in the circumstances of this complaint and it could have taken steps to 
try and mitigate the impact of delays at times too. So, I think its right that is 
recognised by way of fair and proportionate award of compensation. 
Compensation is not intended to punish a business and I too am mindful that Admiral 
has, more recently, chosen to act outside of the way it would have been entitled to 
proportionately settle this claim. That has meant Mr M and Mrs M arent liable for the 
costs they previously would have been liable for. Based solely on the actions of 
Admiral and the action it has since agreed to take outside of the policy terms, I think 
£100 is a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of the failings here.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above Admiral should put things right by paying £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should 
put things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Jade Alexander
Ombudsman