DRN-4477857
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited, saying they used a 
legal threat to get him to pay towards an unenforceable account.
What happened
Mr M had several debts with Cabot. This complaint surrounds a defaulted credit card 
account which was opened in 2005 and was sold to Cabot in 2011.
Mr M made repayments to Cabot between 2011 and 2020. In 2021, Cabot said theyd start 
legal action, but about a week later said they actually would not pursue legal action.
In 2022, after Cabot proposed sending a debt collector to visit Mr Ms home, Mr M agreed to 
settle the debt with a repayment plan.
In 2023, Mr M asked Cabot for a copy of the credit agreement. Cabot couldnt provide it as it 
was too old, so they agreed the account was currently unenforceable in court.
Mr M complained. He says he only made payments because of the legal threat, but Cabot 
actually cant take legal action.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first clarify that only a court can decide whether a debt is legally enforceable or not  
I dont have the power to determine that. But even if an account is unenforceable, as Cabot 
and Mr M say this one is, the debt still exists, and Cabot are still allowed to appoint debt 
collectors and to ask Mr M to repay the debt.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms claim that he only made payments to Cabot because of 
the legal threat. However, he made payments to Cabot for about 9 years before the legal 
action was proposed, then his further payments started over a year after the legal action had 
been withdrawn. And Mr M didnt make any payments during the short period where legal 
action was actually being pursued. So I cannot fairly conclude that Mr M only made his 
payments because of this legal threat.
Indeed, from Mr Ms contact with Cabot at the time, it looks like he set up his 2022 payment 
plan following an offer from his family to help him, and following the proposition of a visit 
from a debt collector, which he didnt want. To clarify, even if the debt was unenforceable, 
Cabot were still allowed to use debt collectors, and those debt collectors were still able to 
visit Mr M to ask him to repay the money he owes. Using those debt collectors was not a 
form of court action.
As I mentioned before, the debt being unenforceable would only mean that Cabot could not 
take certain legal action against Mr M. But the debt still exists. Mr M had the benefit of that 
credit card and owed money in return. So it was fair for him to make repayments towards the 
debt he owed. I cannot fairly or reasonably say that Cabot needs to refund him here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman