DRN-3650045
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss A was looking to buy a new phone and saw one she was interested in listed on an 
online marketplace. She spoke with the seller to check the specifications of the phone and 
negotiate a price. The seller then told her she had to pay using her online banking, so she 
made a payment of £400 to the bank account details she was given.
Unfortunately, we now know the seller was a scammer. Miss A says the seller stopped 
communicating with her once shed made the payment and deactivated their profile on the 
online marketplace. Miss A then contacted Monzo to report the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. The 
CRM code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised 
push payments scams, except in limited circumstances. Monzo investigated Miss As case 
but said one or more of the exceptions to reimbursement applied. It said Miss A had made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing it was for genuine goods, and had 
ignored the warning shown to her when she made the payment. So it said she wasnt 
entitled to a refund under the CRM code. Miss A wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so 
referred her complaint to our service.
I sent Miss A and Monzo a provisional decision on 15 July 2022 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss A under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) although it isnt a signatory. The CRM 
code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the 
firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Miss A have a reasonable basis for belief?
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards Miss As position. But I need to 
consider not just whether she believed the goods she was buying were genuine, but whether 
it was reasonable for her to do so.
The make and model of phone Miss A was trying to buy is usually listed with traditional 
retailers at more than twice the price she agreed to pay for it. So it appears the advert she 
was responding to was advertising the phone at significantly below market value. And I think 
this should have caused Miss A significant concern about the legitimacy of the seller and 
whether the phone was genuine.
Miss A says she saw other adverts for similar or cheaper prices. But the only examples shes 
been able to send us are for different models of phone. And all the examples are from the 
same online marketplace. So I dont think these examples are reliable evidence that the 
phone was legitimately available at the price Miss A agreed to pay.
Miss A also says she spoke to the seller to check the specifications of the phone and looked 
through reviews of the sellers account on the online marketplace. But she doesnt appear to 
have asked for any proof that the seller actually had the phone or for any explanation of why 
they were selling it for significantly below market value. So I dont think these checks were 
enough to counter the concerns about the price.
And so I dont think Miss A did have a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for 
genuine goods.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Miss A had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payment, she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if Monzo didnt 
meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers.
But the payment Miss A made wasnt for a particularly large sum of money, wasnt 
particularly unusual in comparison to her usual account activity and didnt leave the balance 
of her account in a particularly unusual position. So I dont think Monzo should have 
identified a scam risk in relation to this payment and I dont think Monzo was required to 
provide an effective warning in relation to it.
So I dont think Monzo failed to meet its obligations under the CRM code.Should Monzo have done more to protect Mr F?
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM code, when Miss A made this payment, 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). But for the same reasons I dont think it had to provide an effective warning for 
this payment, I dont think it should have identified that Mr F could be at risk of fraud as a 
result of it either. So I dont think anything Monzo could reasonably have been expected to 
do could have prevented Miss A losing her money.
Recovery
Ive also considered whether Monzo could have done more to try to recover the money once 
it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. But Monzo has shown us it emailed the 
bank the money was sent to once it was told of the scam, and chased it a couple of weeks 
later. But it hasnt received a response. So I dont think Monzo could reasonably have done 
more to try to recover the money.
I said Id consider anything further Miss A and Monzo sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo replied to the provisional decision, saying it had nothing further to add. And Miss A 
didnt respond to the provisional decision by the deadline given.
As neither Miss A nor Monzo provided any further information to be considered, I still think 
the conclusions I set out in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
I therefore still dont think anything Monzo could reasonably have been expected to do could 
have prevented Miss A losing her money, or that Monzo could reasonably have done more 
to try to recover the money. So I dont think it would be fair to require Monzo to refund the 
money Miss A lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman