DRN-1692503
 
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
just refer to AXA in my decision.
Mrs M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out with a store card in January 1995. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card whilst she was shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
She has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. Mrs M 
mainly said that PPI wasnt properly explained and she wouldnt have taken it if it had been 
as it wasnt something she needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Ms store card application. Looking at this, although I dont 
know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear from the 
paperwork that it was up to Mrs M to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. And it was 
added to her account when she chose to take it out.
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs M enough clear information to decide if the policy was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Mrs M told us that she wouldve had full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the next 
6 months from her employer. But the policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs M was 
off work sick or disabled. So it couldve paid out for longer than Mrs M was entitled to sick 
pay through work  and cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to 
work. 
This benefit was also available to Mrs M in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
became unemployed. Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs M if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from having the policy.
It doesnt look as if Mrs M was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So, 
I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
her off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs M clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems 
to have wanted it at the time. It mentioned on the application form that her first premium was 
free  and that she could cancel at any time. So I think she wouldve seen that she didn't 
have to start (or continue) paying for PPI if she didnt want to spend money to keep the 
policy running.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs M, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman