DRN-2484719
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr M on behalf of a company, C. C complains that HSBC 
wrongly closed the company account before the date it had agreed for further information to 
be provided and that it has delayed in returning the funds in the account.
What happened
C applied to HSBC in mid-2019 to set up a business account. However, HSBC closed the 
account in December 2019 because it said it hadnt received the necessary information to 
meet its regulatory safeguarding requirements.
C agreed that HSBC had first asked it to provide the information in June 2019 and, since 
then, had extended the deadline to complete this several times. It had sent in the information 
on 15 December but despite this, HSBC had closed the account saying the safeguarding 
checks had still not been met adequately.
C was unhappy that HSBC appeared to have closed the account at a time when it was also 
sending texts saying that the company had until 14 February to compete this task. It said it 
had only found out when Mr M contacted HSBC on 31 January 2020 following another text 
the day before. C felt the information provided by HSBC was confusing and its decision to 
close the account in the circumstances had been unfair. It asked HSBC to acknowledge it 
had made a mistake and agree to reopen the account. 
C is also unhappy at the way HSBC has dealt with the refund of the money that was in the 
account at the time it was closed. It says HSBC first delayed in sending out the cheque and 
although it has since sent out another cheque, this cheque cant be cashed as C doesnt 
have another business account in place. It feels HSBC is being unreasonable about this.
HSBC said it had a regulatory requirement to carry out reviews on its customers and 
customers were required to provide any information requested as set out in the terms and 
conditions for the account. It had provided a number of extensions to C to provide the 
information but it hadnt done so and, as a result, the account was closed. It said it had 
written to C explaining this could happen if the information was provided so it didnt agree it 
had made a mistake. 
However, it accepted that in January it had given some confusing information about the date 
for sending in the information. It agreed this could have been confusing. It said C hadnt 
provided the necessary information so it couldnt agree to reverse its decision but it offered 
£100 compensation for the confusion. 
With regard to the balance in the account, HSBC said it sent a cheque in January and 
couldnt explain why it hadnt arrived. However, it accepted that thered been a slight delay in 
reissuing this cheque and offered to pay interest on the funds from 13 March to 1 April 2020.
Our investigator felt HSBCs offer was fair. She said HSBC was entitled to ask for additional 
information from its customers, and to end banking facilities where that information wasnt 
provided. In this case she felt HSBC had provided a reasonable amount of time for the 
information to be provided so she couldnt agree its decision to close the companys account 
was unfair. 
Unfortunately, it had then sent a text message that suggested the account was still open, 
which was supported by the online portal that said C had until 14 February to respond. This 
was incorrect, as HSBC had acknowledged. While this information didnt change the 
decision to close the account, which had already been made by then, it was confusing. 
HSBC had however already offered £100 compensation for this, which she considered to be 
fair and for that reason, she wouldnt be asking it to pay anything more.
With regard to the closing cheque, our investigator said she understood the problems C was 
having in finding an alternative bank account to bank the closing cheque. However, the 
funds were coming from a business account so, while she sympathised with Cs position, 
she didnt feel it reasonable to require HSBC to allow it to be paid into a personal account.
C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It didnt feel the 
compensation was sufficient and said it considered that the interest on the balance should 
be backdated to 20 February. It also asked HSBC to reissue this cheque so that it could be 
paid into any account with the companys name in its title.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this isnt the decision that C is hoping for but I wont be upholding its complaint as Ill 
now explain. I deal with the issues in turn.
Closure of the account
To a large degree the facts of this complaint are agreed. C wanted to open a business 
account with HSBC but HSBC required more information from the company before it could 
agree to do so. It first asked for this information in June 2019 and explained that it needed to 
be provided by 11 September. For various reasons C wasnt able to comply with this 
deadline and on 11 September, HSBC sent the company a notice of closure advising that, if 
the information wasnt provided by 20 November, the account would be closed. 
A short extension was agreed but on 22 November it sent a letter to C stating: The decision 
to close your business banking/corporate account(s) still stands and will take effect on 22 
December 2019 if the review of your account(s) is not completed to our satisfaction. The 
letter went on to say that HSBC may not be willing to change its previous decision to close 
the account even if it was provided with all the information it had asked for. HSBC then 
agreed a number of further extensions to this deadline taking it up to 21 January 2020. 
Although C did send in more information on 15 December, HSBC didnt consider it to be 
sufficient and the account was closed.
I can see that C feels unhappy at HSBCs decision to close the account. However, HSBCs 
entitled to ask for information from its customers and to then assess that information in 
deciding whether to continue to offer banking services. Thats part of its regulatory and 
commercial responsibilities. Its also set out in the terms and conditions for the account, that 
C would have accepted when it applied to open the account. Ive seen that C did provide 
information but that HSBC didnt consider it to be adequate. C may disagree but, in the 
circumstances, I consider HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions in coming to this 
decision.Ive also looked at whether HSBC applied this requirement fairly. Its clear from the 
information available that C was given a considerable amount of time to provide the 
necessary information, and significantly more than would usually have been the case. Ive 
also seen that HSBC explained what would happen if the information wasnt provided or if it 
wasnt sufficient so Im satisfied that C would have known how important it was to comply by 
the due date, which was agreed to be 21 January 2020. Ive seen that C returned the form 
on 15 December but it didnt contain all of the information required. I understand how 
disappointing this must have been for C but, in the circumstances, I consider HSBC dealt 
with this request fairly.
Date for submitting the information
HSBC made its decision to close Cs account on 21 January 2020.  On 30 January, 
however, it sent a text to X on behalf of C that suggested the account was still open and the 
decision was still under review. This was then supported by the information on the online 
portal that said the information had to be provided by 14 February. C says it took this to 
mean that the deadline had been extended again. 
I can understand why C read it that way and theres no doubt that this text and messaging 
didnt fit with the fact that HSBC had already decided to close the account earlier that month. 
For that reason, I agree with C that it was confusing. However, Im satisfied HSBC had made 
clear that the account would be closed on 21 January if the required information wasnt 
provided. C had provided some information but not everything so, even if the deadline had 
been extended, I dont consider it would have altered the position.  Ive also taken into 
account that Mr M received the text on 30 January and he called HSBC the next day at 
which point he was told the account had been closed so the actual impact of this mistake 
was short lived. On that basis I wont be asking HSBC to reverse its decision but I think its 
reasonable for it to compensate C for the poor communication at this time. HSBC has 
offered £100. I realise C doesnt agree this is enough but I consider it is fair for the impact on 
C and the time its lasted. 
Delay in returning the closing funds
After deciding to close Cs account, HSBC sent out a cheque on 30 January for the closing 
balance. C didnt receive it and raised this with HSBC on 13 March. HSBC reissued the 
cheque on 1 April.
Ive seen records to show the first cheque was sent out on 30 January. I cant explain why it 
didnt arrive but once the cheques been posted its out of HSBCs control and HSBC cant be 
held responsible for the fact it went astray. I understand why C feels its been unfairly 
disadvantaged by whats happened but, for the reasons given, I cant reasonably ask HSBC 
to compensate C for the delay in the first cheque arriving.
However, HSBCs acknowledged that there was some delay in issuing the second cheque 
and agreed to pay interest therefore from 13 March to 1 April. I consider that to be 
reasonable.
Banking the cheque
Ive seen C says its not able to bank the cheque because it doesnt have a business 
account at present. I realise how frustrating this situation must be but the funds in the 
account came from a business account in Cs name and for that reason I cant say HSBC is 
being unreasonable in saying it should now be returned to a similar account in Cs name.This problem has been ongoing for some time so I would encourage HSBC and C to work 
together to decide how best to resolve the problem. And once C has a suitable account, Id 
expect HSBC to transfer the funds to that account without delay together with any interest 
that may have accrued on the funds while still being held by HSBC.
I realise that this may not be the decision that C was hoping for but in the circumstances I 
consider that the compensation and interest already offered by HSBC is sufficient and for 
that reason I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final; decision is that I do not uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman