DRN-2944677
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda 
Financial Services (SFS) terminated his agreement.
 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
SFS. The agreement was due to run until January 2022.
In August 2020 Mr Ss direct debit payment was returned unpaid. In September 2020 SFS 
sent an arrears letter to Mr S. Following this, the October and November 2020 direct debit 
payments were returned unpaid. SFS sent further arrears letters.
In December 2020 Mr S contacted SFS to discuss the arrears. He requested a payment 
deferral. SFS declined this due to the level of arrears on the account but said it might be 
possible if the arrears position improved. Mr S said he could restart payments in January 
2021.
Following this, the December direct debit payment was returned unpaid. SFS issued a notice 
of default. Mr S contacted SFS and entered into an agreement to pay. However, this was 
broken and in July 2021 the agreement was terminated, and the account was passed to a 
debt collection agency.
Mr S was unhappy about this and complained to SBS. He said his phone had been out of 
service which had made it difficult for him to make payments. He also said he suffered from 
dyslexia which made it difficult for him to deal with day to day activities.
In response, SFS said it had terminated the agreement due to the arrears and that it was 
unable to reverse this.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that SFS had acted unfairly by 
terminating the agreement because of the history of arrears and missed/late payments.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he wanted to pay off the arrears now to avoid the car being 
repossessed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the history of Mr Ss account. I can see that he missed several payments in 
2020 and that he broke an agreement to pay more than once in 2021.
I can see that SFS sent arrears letters to Mr S warning him that the agreement would be 
terminated if the account wasnt brought up to date. So, I think SFS treated Mr S fairly by 
warning him of the consequences of the arrears. 
I understand that Mr S is unhappy about the agreement being terminated. However, looking 
at everything, I dont think SFS has acted unfairly here. There is a history of missed 
payments and significant arrears on the account. And Mr S broke the agreement to pay. I 
appreciate that Mr S had a reduced income last year, however, I think SFS responded 
positively to the situation by setting up the agreement to pay. Mr S broke that agreement. 
Hes explained that this was due to an issue with his phone but theres no evidence of this.
On balance, and whilst I understand that Mr S didnt want the agreement to be terminated, I 
cant say that SFS acted unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr Says he can pay the arrears now and wants to avoid the car being 
repossessed. However, Mr S given the chance to clear the arrears on previous occasions 
Which he failed to do. In any event, once the agreement has been terminated , it cant be 
reinstated.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman