DRN-2369418
The complaint
Miss R says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simpler, from now on Ill just refer to AXA 
as the seller.
What happened
In February 2003 Miss R took out a store card - she didnt at that stage take out any PPI.
In May 2003, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Miss R owed on her store card 
and it protected Miss Rs monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Rs complaint on the basis that information Miss R gave us 
suggested that Miss R wouldnt have taken out PPI if AXA had properly explained the costs 
and benefits. Thats because it appeared that Miss R had other ways she couldve paid her 
store card and so she probably wouldnt have thought the policy was good value in those 
circumstances. 
AXA disagreed. It mainly said it was unlikely that Miss R wouldve been able to rely on 
getting as much sick pay from her employer as shed thought since she had worked in her 
job for less than a year. And although Miss R had mentioned having savings or other 
insurance worth at least 6 months of her salary, she hadnt provided any details about this.
Our adjudicator asked Miss Rs representative for some additional information about her 
financial situation at the time - but we havent heard anything further. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Miss R mainly said that PPI was never discussed and she was never aware it was being 
included. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. 
AXA isnt able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. So 
I dont know what it said to Miss R when the policy was sold. 
But, AXA told us this was a telesales call  I understand that to mean that the main purpose 
of the call was to inform Miss R about the benefits PPI could offer her and to see if she 
wanted to buy it.
So, I think its likely that PPI was discussed during the call. 
And, based on what this service knows about the sales process, and given that PPI was 
added some time after Miss Rs store card had already been issued to her without PPI, 
I think Miss R wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
Miss R wouldve been able to see monthly PPI premiums appearing on her store card 
statements after the phone call. 
So if she hadnt known what these new entries on her statement were, or she didnt want to 
pay anything extra, I think its likely that she wouldve contacted AXA to query this. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Miss R did this. 
I can completely understand that Miss R mightve now forgotten all about how she took out 
PPI. She thought shed taken it out in a face to face meeting and I think that is probably how 
she took out her store card  most likely when she was out shopping. 
But, on balance, I think its likely that Miss R decided to buy the policy during the phone call 
(as thats when the policy started) and it was added to her account because she chose to 
take it out.
Although AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R it still had to provide Miss R with clear 
enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to have it. 
If that didnt happen, then I have to think about whether this makes any overall difference to 
the outcome of her complaint.
Looking at the terms that I think wouldve applied to Miss R, it appears she was eligible for 
the policy. 
And it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Miss Rs decision to take out PPI. 
Ive taken into account that Miss R told us her employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick 
pay followed by 6 months half pay. But she also told us that she hadnt been in her job for 
any more than a year when she took out her store card. So I can see why AXA says that 
being entitled to this much sick pay seems unlikely. And I think its likely that her sick pay 
mightnt have been as generous as this at the time.
Even if Im mistaken about this, the policy still offered her a worthwhile benefit. This policy 
couldve paid a benefit for as long as Miss R was off work sick or disabled. And it wouldve 
paid out on top of sick pay, providing Miss R with a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or 
disabled and at best, she wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 
6 months. 
As well as this the policy paid out a benefit if Miss R lost her job unexpectedly and became 
unemployed. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each month until the 
outstanding balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. 
So I think Miss R couldve benefitted from having the policy.Although shes mentioned having some savings, I dont feel that I can safely rely on this 
information. 
I dont know, for example, where savings mightve come from. Bearing in mind that Miss R 
had only been in work for around a year its hard to see how she couldve put aside savings 
equivalent to at least half her annual salary. 
If she had money from somewhere else (and I havent seen anything so far that makes 
me think thats likely) I still dont know if any savings mightve been tied up in a long term 
account or what Miss R mightve been saving for. This information hasnt been provided. 
So I cant assume Miss R wouldve had ready access to enough money to make PPI 
unsuitable when she took out the policy. So this information doesnt change my decision.  
As I dont know how the cost was explained to Miss R, Ive assessed her complaint on the 
basis that AXA didnt explain the cost of the policy as clearly as it shouldve done. But, taking 
everything into account, I think if Miss R had properly understood the cost and benefit 
provided she still wouldve thought the policy potentially useful. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Miss R  and she 
took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the cover, knowing what her 
circumstances were at the time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Miss R off taking out 
the policy.
This means even if AXA didnt give Miss R all the information it shouldve done when it sold 
her the policy, based on what I've seen and been told so far, I dont feel I've seen enough to 
be able to say that Miss R has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong. 
So, as things stand at the moment, Im planning to say that AXA doesnt need to do anything 
to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman