DRN-4047431
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a fixed sum loan by Work Work Limited. The loan 
was provided under the Green Deal scheme to finance the installation of solar panels on her 
property.
What happened
Mrs B is represented in this complaint. But, for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to 
her and Work Work.
Mrs B has said that a sales agent of Work Work knocked on her door in 2015 and sold her a 
solar panel system. The system was part financed by Mrs Bs savings and partly by a 
finance agreement provided through the Green Deal scheme. 
In essence, the Green Deal scheme was a government backed initiative intended to remove 
the upfront cost to consumers of installing energy efficiency measures into their homes. It did 
this by allowing Green Deal Providers (Providers) to enter finance agreements with 
consumers to pay for the measures. These loans were then repaid via the consumers 
electricity bill. Work Work was an authorised Provider under the scheme. 
There were particular rules that Providers had to follow, largely set out in part in the Green 
Deal Framework (Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) Regulations 2012 and the 
Green Deal Code of Practice. 
Mrs B has said that her property had two electricity meters. One was a historic pay-as-you-
go meter that related to the fact half of the property used to operate as a commercial 
business. Mrs B has said that the solar panels were connected to this meter, rather than the 
normal meter. However, it seems likely, the loan was repaid via her electricity bill which 
would have related to the normal meter. 
Mrs B has said that she initially contacted Work Work in 2018 to query the Green Deal 
payments being taken from her electricity bill, given she was not receiving the reductions on 
this bill that she expected from having the solar panel system. Mrs B has said that Work 
Work did not provide her with an acceptable response. And ultimately Mrs B brought her 
complaint about this issue to the Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs B has also contacted Ofgem, who confirmed that the system had not been registered to 
receive feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments  the money that wouldve been paid by the energy 
network for any electricity the system generated that wasnt used by the property and 
instead sold to the network. Ofgem also said it was now too late for this to be registered.
Work Work has told us that it has no detailed records of the sale, as it has been a number of 
years since the installation. 
Our Investigator thought Mrs B had most likely made an expression of dissatisfaction in 
2018, so she considered the complaint was within the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman 
Service to consider. Our Investigator recommended Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. She 
thought there were a number of reasons for this, including that she was not persuaded Work 
Work had clearly explained the need for Mrs B to apply for the FIT payments.
Our Investigator recommended that Mrs Bs loan be reworked so that she doesnt pay more 
than £3,106.15 to repay the Green Deal loan. That Work Work should arrange for any 
adverse markers made in association with the repayments, to be removed from Mrs Bs 
credit file. And that Work Work should pay Mrs B £200 compensation. 
Mrs B accepted the recommendation. Work Work did not respond and have offered no 
further argument or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our Investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. 
Firstly, I consider that I am able to consider this complaint. The rules that set out the 
Financial Ombudsman Services ability to consider a complaint  our jurisdiction  are 
largely those in Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook. DISP 2.8.2 R says, in part, that a complaint can be considered if it is 
made six years after the event complained about if the complainant referred the complaint to 
the respondent business within those six years. 
Mrs Bs complaint was initially framed around the system not being properly installed and 
connected, meaning she was not receiving the benefits she expected. I think it is more likely 
than not that when she contacted Work Work in 2018, she expressed dissatisfaction  i.e. 
complained  about this. I think it is more likely that the reason Mrs B is not receiving the 
benefits she expected has less to do with the two meters in her property, and more to do 
with the fact she is not receiving FIT payments. But effectively this is part of the same issue 
 that Mrs B is unhappy with what Work Work did when selling her the system which has led 
to her not receiving the expected benefits.
In terms of the merits of this complaint, as I have noted, our Investigator thought there were 
a number of reasons why this complaint might be upheld. However, I am satisfied that if 
there is one valid reason why the complaint should be upheld, it is not necessary to consider 
the others. 
It is clear that Mrs B is not receiving the expected benefits of having the system. She is not 
receiving any FIT payments, so is not benefitting from the full amount of energy the system 
is producing. Without this, even disregarding any further issues with the arrangements, it is 
highly unlikely the plan would meet the Golden Rule as required by the Green Deal specific 
rules - i.e. the measures would not pay for themselves. The question is, was not registering 
for FIT due to something Work Work did or did not do when selling the system to Mrs B?
Mrs B has been able to provide us with a copy of an uncompleted FIT application form. So it 
seems likely she was provided this at the time. But I agree with our Investigator that it seems 
more likely than not that Work Work did not provide Mrs B with clear information about this 
or the way the benefits for the solar panel system worked. Had Work Work done this, I think 
Mrs B would have signed and sent in the application to receive FIT payments. 
I should also point out that, had Work Work responded to Mrs B appropriately in 2018, she 
would have been able to complete an application for FIT payments at that time. The scheme closed for new applications a few years after that. This further failing in 2018, along with the 
lack of any substantial defence of this complaint, supports my conclusions that Work Work 
did not provide clear information in 2015. 
Putting things right
Because Mrs B is not receiving the FIT payments, she is only likely to be benefitting from 
37% of the energy the solar panel system is producing (based on the Energy Savings Trust 
estimations of energy usage). So, the loan agreement should be reworked with this in mind. 
To put things right Work Work should take steps to ensure Mrs B doesnt pay more than 
£3,106.15 towards the Green Deal loan. Work Work should calculate how much Mrs B has 
paid towards the loan:
If she has paid more than £3,106.15, Work Work should refund any payments made 
above that amount with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date of that payment 
to the date of settlement) and cancel the remaining Green Deal loan.
If Mrs B has not yet paid £3,106.15, Work Work should adjust the Green Deal loan to 
this amount.
Following this Work Work should arrange for any adverse markers in association with the 
repayments to be removed from Mrs Bs credit file, if any have been made.
In addition, I consider that Mrs B has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of the 
issues she has experienced, and Work Work should pay her £200 compensation.
Work Work should take these actions within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs B 
accepts this final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Work Work Limited should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman