DRN-3816671
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society initially approved his application for an 
account but then soon afterwards reversed their position and declined it.
What happened
Mr L applied to Nationwide for a new account. He received notice from Nationwide that his 
application had been successful. However, shortly afterwards, Nationwide reversed their 
position and told Mr L that his account application had been declined. Mr L wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ls complaint. They confirmed that Mr Ls application had been 
rejected, and they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by doing so. However, Nationwide did 
acknowledge that Mr L hadnt received the standard of service he should have when he 
contacted Nationwide about this matter, and they apologised to Mr L for this and made a 
payment of £50 to him as compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred. Mr L wasnt 
satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly by declining Mr Ls application, and they felt the £50 compensation Nationwide had 
paid to Mr L for the service aspect of his complaint was fair. But our investigator noted that 
the account was showing on Mr Ls credit file, and felt that Nationwide should remove the 
account from Mr Ls credit file, given that the application hadnt been approved. Mr L 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr L to have initially been told by 
Nationwide that they had approved his application for a new account, only to be later told 
that his application had in fact been denied.
However, its for Nationwide to decide whether it will offer, or continue to offer, its services to 
any person. And Im satisfied from the information Nationwide have provided to this service 
about why they ultimately made the decision to not approve Mr Ls application that their 
decision was both based on fair reasoning and one which Nationwide were entitled to make.
Mr L feels that Nationwide should pay him compensation for misleading him about the status 
of his application. I dont agree, and Im satisfied based on the information that Nationwide 
discovered when completing further checks on Mr L that it would be fair for Nationwide to 
have declined Mr Ls application at any stage of the application process based on that 
information, and that it would also have been fair for Nationwide to have issued Mr L a notice 
of closure on his account, had it been the case that the account had actually been opened. 
Im aware that Mr L would like Nationwide to provide a summary or details of the information 
they assessed that led them to make the decision to not approve his account. However, 
Nationwide are under no obligation to provide this information to Mr L was he would like, and 
one reason for this is because if details of what it was specifically that gave Nationwide 
concern were made public, it would increase the risk that future applicants might attempt to 
circumnavigate Nationwides security protocols and obtain accounts they wouldnt otherwise 
have been approved for, potentially by hiding similarly concerning matters from Nationwide 
during the application process. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that the outcome that occurred here  that Mr Ls application for a 
new account was declined  was a fair outcome. And so, I dont feel that Nationwide should 
fairly or reasonably be instructed to compensate Mr L for that. 
However, its notable that while Mr Ls application wasnt approved by Nationwide, the 
account was still reported to Mr Ls credit file by Nationwide. This shouldnt have been the 
case, and so I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ls favour on this limited basis and 
instructing Nationwide to remove this account from Mr Ls credit file as should be the case, 
given that the account application was unsuccessful, if they havent already done so. 
Finally, I feel that the £50 compensation Nationwide have already paid Mr L for the service 
issues of his complaint, including the long hold and call times he experienced, already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to that aspect of this complaint, and so I wont be 
instructing Nationwide to take any further action in that regard.
I realise this might not be the full outcome that Mr L was wanting, but I trust hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Nationwide must remove the account in question from Mr Ls credit file if they havent 
already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman