DRN-4304107
The complaint
Miss N complains that Tandem Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) unfairly rejected her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a timeshare product 
she purchased with a loan from them.   
What happened
The loan that is the subject of this complaint was originally provided by another business. 
That loan was subsequently acquired by Tandem. So, this means that Tandem are the 
respondent in this complaint. For simplicity, Ill refer to Tandem throughout my decision 
rather than the original lender.
In or around 2016, Miss N, together with another party, purchased a timeshare product from 
a supplier who Ill refer to as A. The purchase of that product was funded with a loan from 
another business, so doesnt form part of the complaint being considered here.
In or around November 2018, Miss N and the other party agreed to upgrade their timeshare 
product by entering into a new purchase agreement with A. The cost of the upgrade 
purchased was £35,000 and was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement in Miss Ns sole 
name with Tandem. The associated product membership was later transferred into Miss Ns 
sole name.
In or around February 2020, Miss N agreed to enter into a new membership agreement with 
A in her sole name which replaced the membership agreement for the product she purchase 
in 2018.
In or around December 2021, Miss N submitted a claim to Tandem under section 75 (S75) of 
the CCA. She said the product shed purchased had been misrepresented by A. In 
particular, that A told her she could rent out her timeshare and receive a rental income of up 
to £5,000 each year. Miss N said A told her the loan can pay for itself from lettings. But shed 
only received a rental income of £5,000 on one occasion in 2018.
Furthermore, following A entering into liquidation in 2020, a new club manager had been 
appointed to manage the timeshare she owned. And they told her that the rental programme 
was no longer available. Miss N thought Tandem were liable for any misrepresentations 
under S75. She wanted Tandem to refund the loan payments shed made and cancel the 
remaining amount owed.
In response, Tandem didnt think they could be held liable for any alleged misrepresentation 
as:
the timeshare agreement purchased in 2018 had been cancelled when a new one 
was entered into in 2020;
the loan amount exceeded the limit that could be claimed for under S75.
Unhappy with Tandems response, Miss N referred her complaint to this service. Having 
considered all the information available, one of our investigators thought the purchase price 
of the product exceeded the limits specified within S75. And any potential breach of contract 
claim under S75a was unlikely to succeed given the purchase agreement in 2018 had since 
been superseded. As a result, our investigator didnt think Tandem needed to do anything 
more.
Miss N didnt accept our investigators findings. Particularly as the business that funded her 
purchase in 2016 had agreed to pay her back. She didnt think it right that shed been 
refunded for that loan but not for the loan with Tandem. As a result, she asked that her 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook means 
Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Where 
Miss N paid for her timeshare membership, having financed it with a restricted use regulated 
loan with Tandem, she is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like her under those 
provisions  subject to any restrictions and limitations. So, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the legal 
claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I believe 
Tandems treatment of Miss Ns claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and 
information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to determine any legal claim 
itself. That is the role of the courts.
The claim for misrepresentation
S75(3) says that Subsection (1)3 does not apply to a claim  (so far as any claim relates to 
any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more 
than £30,000[]. The cash price shown within the loan agreement in November 2018 was 
£35,000. So, I dont believe a valid claim can be made under S75. 
Could there be a claim for breach of contract?
Section 75A (S75A) of the CCA provides similar (although narrower) rights to S75 and has 
a higher purchase price limit. Specifically, this section covers certain situations where theres 
evidence of a breach of contract - but not misrepresentation.
Miss N alleges that A told her she would be able to rent out her timeshare. So, if there was 
evidence that this was a contractual benefit included within her membership/purchase 
contract and A failed to honour that, its possible this could amount to a breach of contract. 
And if such a breach of contract fell within the circumstances outlined in S75A, its possible 
Miss N could make a like claim against Tandem. So, Ive considered this within the context 
of the information provided from the time of the sale.
Ive seen limited documentation from the time of the sale in November 2018. Ive only seen a 
welcome letter dated 11 November 2018 summarising the Membership Application 
Agreement to Miss N. And while I acknowledge what Miss N says she was told, there 
doesnt appear to be anything within that document to suggest A were contractually obliged 
to rent out Miss Ns timeshare, should she request it.
Ive also seen a copy of a Membership Application Agreement from February 2020. 
However, this appears to be a new and separate agreement which wasnt funded with a loan 
from Tandem. So, I dont think it provides much help in establishing the facts relating to the 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authority
3 In respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract.purchase completed in November 2018. And because this new contract wasnt funded by 
Tandem, I dont believe Miss N is able to make a like claim under either S75 or S75A in 
relation to it.
Summary
I would like to reassure Miss N that Ive carefully considered everything shes said together 
with the information shes provided. Having done so, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Tandems response to her claim was unfair here. 
I do realise she will be very disappointed and believes her claim for misrepresentation 
should succeed. Unfortunately, given my findings, I dont think Miss N is able to make a like 
claim against Tandem under S75. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to ask Tandem 
to do anything more here. But this doesnt stop Miss N from pursuing her claim through any 
other channel that may be available to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman