DRN-3960553
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) has applied, for damage to a car at the end of the lease agreement.
What happened
In 2019, Mr E entered into a car lease agreement with MBFS. In 2022, at the end of the 
lease period, MBFS billed Mr E for damage to the car. Although Mr E doesnt dispute the 
damage, he says the charges shouldnt apply, because of issues he had with the car during 
the time he had it. Specifically, he says the was a problem with the sunroof, which caused 
condensation in the car.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she was satisfied that the 
sunroof had been repaired and Mr E hadnt reported any continuing issues. In any event, 
she considered damage charges and problems with the car to be separate issues, and that 
MBFS was entitled to charge for damage. She noted that MBFS had offered Mr E £250 as a 
gesture of goodwill, and she thought this was fair.
Mr E disagreed, and said the condensation had been an issue ever since the leak from the 
sunroof. His complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Its clear that there was an issue with the sunroof, but I can see repairs were carried out. 
Theres no record of Mr E reporting any continuing problems. MBFS has no record and Mr E 
hasnt provided anything either. Although hes provided evidence showing condensation, its 
not possible for me, on balance, to say this was caused by the previous leak from the 
sunroof, particularly as theres no record of the car being taken to a garage for it to be 
assessed. 
However, even if there had been a continuing issue, Mr E has no right of set-off. Or, in other 
words, the damage charges are a separate issue, and he cannot cancel out one thing with 
another. So, the charges would still apply.
I can see the MBFS has offered Mr E £250 as a goodwill gesture. This seems reasonable 
and I wont interfere with it. I leave it up to him to decide whether to accept it, if he hasnt 
already. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that the £250 Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has 
offered is reasonable. I leave it to Mr E to decide whether or not to accept it, if he hasnt 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman