DRN-3766907
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited didnt follow his 
instructions to invest cash transferred into his SIPP from other pension plans and used the 
postal service for sending important information rather than electronic communications, 
which was Mr Fs stated preference. Mr F has also complained that Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited did not respond to his data subject access request within the 
required timescale.
What happened
In January and February 2020 Mr F submitted a total of five online transfer requests to 
Hargreaves Lansdown. The transfers were coming from three different pension providers. Mr 
F was consolidating these pension plans into his SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown.
Following each online transfer request Hargreaves Lansdown wrote to Mr F to confirm that 
they had received the transfer request and that if Mr F had given investment instructions 
then the investments would be placed for Mr F.
Hargreaves Lansdown processed the transfer requests and the transfer values were 
received throughout February 2020. Hargreaves Lansdown says it then wrote to Mr F on 
three occasions in late February and early March 2020 to confirm that the transferred funds 
had been received. Hargreaves Lansdown has provided a template of the letter it says it 
sent, the contents of which say that because Mr F had not provided Hargreaves Lansdown 
with any investment instructions, then the transfer values received would be held as cash 
until investment instructions were provided.
Mr F has said that he did not receive any of these three letters. In mid-July 2021 a further 
transfer value was received from one of Mr Fs previous pension providers. This transfer 
value was applied to Mr Fs SIPP the day after it was received. On the same day Hargreaves 
Lansdown says it wrote to Mr F (along the lines of the above) to confirm that this additional 
transfer value had been received and that as Hargreaves Lansdown had not been provided 
with any investment instructions for the transfer value then the transfer would be held as 
cash until investment instructions were received.
Mr F contacted Hargreaves Lansdown by telephone on 23 July 2021. He spoke with a 
member of Hargreaves Lansdowns dealing team and provided investment instructions for 
the transfer values. Hargreaves Lansdown completed these instructions for Mr F.
On 23 July 2021 Mr F spoke with a further member of staff at Hargreaves Lansdown and 
raised his complaint with them. Mr F said that he had provided investment instructions when 
he had completed the online transfer requests in January and February 2020. He said that 
his investment instructions should therefore be applied retrospectively to the dates when 
each of the transfer values had been received. 
Mr F has said that he had previously agreed with Hargreaves Lansdown that all 
correspondence would be sent to him electronically and not by post. Mr F says this was 
because his local postal sorting office were either not delivering post or were delivering post 
to wrong addresses. 
Hargreaves Lansdown investigated Mr Fs complaint. They wrote to him in early September 
2021 with their findings. Hargreaves Lansdown said that Mr F had not provided investment 
instructions when he had completed the online transfer requests and they had written to Mr 
F on three occasions in February and March 2020 to tell him that no investment instructions 
had been received. When the transfer in July 2021 was received Hargreaves Lansdown say 
that they again wrote to Mr F to tell him that no investment instructions were held for that 
transfer and it would be held as cash.
Hargreaves Lansdown say that they also sent investment reports to Mr F between early 
2020 and July 2021 and that these statements also showed that the transfers were held in 
cash. 
Hargreaves Lansdown didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.   
In pursuing his complaint with Hargreaves Lansdown Mr F asked them to send him 
documentation under a data subject access request. Mr F said that Hargreaves Lansdown 
did not respond to his request within the required timescale, so raised a complaint about this. 
Hargreaves Lansdown say that they received Mr Fs request in early November 2021, and 
acknowledged their receipt of the request in late November 2021. Hargreaves Lansdown 
also say that they then sent the information that Mr F had requested in early December, 
which was within a calendar month of Mr Fs request being received. Hargreaves Lansdown 
therefore did not uphold this complaint from Mr F. 
Mr F referred his complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator has 
considered the complaints and has not upheld them. Mr F has not agreed with the 
Investigators view, so the complaints have been referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F completed online transfer requests in January and February 2020. I have seen 
screenshots of these transfer requests. 
The section titled invest instruction is recorded as cash. This is because Mr F had not 
provided any investment instructions. I have also seen a screenshot of the part on the online 
transfer request where Mr F was asked how he would like his pensions to be transferred, the 
presentation of which was clear. 
Mr F instructed that the pensions be transferred as cash. Mr F didnt instruct that his existing 
investments were transferred. I therefore think that it is reasonable to assume that Mr F was 
aware that the transfer values being sent to Hargreaves Lansdown would be in cash.I have also seen a screenshot of the section of the transfer request headed Investment 
Choice. In this section it is stated: You can choose investments for your pension now, or 
make investment decisions later.
Two options are available, one says Choose funds now, the other says Investment later  
your pension will be held as cash until you chose investments. I think that it would be clear 
that by not selecting the Choose funds now option when Mr F submitted his online transfer 
request that the transfer values would remain in cash until investment instructions were 
provided. 
I do however note that Mr F has said that he thought that he had provided investment 
instructions when he completed the section of the transfer request headed Income 
preference. 
I have seen a screenshot of this section of the transfer request. It is headed Income 
preference. This section says: What would you like us to do with any income your 
investments make? two choices are available, one says Keep income as cash in your 
SIPP, the other says Reinvest income. Mr F selected Reinvest income.
Mr F has said that he was confused by the term dividend when completing this section and 
had thought that he was giving investment instructions.
However, the screenshot that I have seen does not refer to dividend. Mr F selected to 
reinvest income. I think that its clear this section of the transfer request is referring to the 
investment of income only. I also dont think that any technical wording was used and that 
this section didnt cover how the transfer values should be invested, which, as Ive previously 
said, was presented in a clear way in a different part of the process.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr F did not provide investment instructions for the transfer 
values when he completed the online transfer applications, instead he only provided 
instructions to reinvest income. 
Hargreaves Lansdown provided Mr F with an execution only service. They did not provide 
Mr F with investment advice. Instead, they could only act upon investment instructions that 
Mr F gave them. 
Ive seen a copy of Hargreaves Lansdowns Terms and Conditions applying in early 2020, 
they say Where you would like us to invest your money in a particular way, and we have not 
already agreed this with you, you must provide investment instructions for each individual 
payment and/or cash transfer you make to us. If you do not provide such instructions, the 
payment will be held in cash.
As Mr F did not provide investment instructions the transfer values were, correctly, held in 
cash.
Hargreaves Lansdown have said that they sent three letters to Mr F in late February and 
early March 2020 to confirm that the transfer values had been received and that as no 
investment instructions had been received then the transfer values were held in cash. I have 
seen screenshots from Hargreaves Lansdown to evidence that these letters were sent. I 
consider this evidence to be persuasive. Im therefore satisfied that these letters were sent. 
Ive also seen a template of these letters which said: You have not provided us with any 
investment instructions in relation to this transfer so the value will be held as cash within 
your SIPP until you provide investment instructions. You can do this by telephone 0117 980 
9800 or logging into your account at www.hl.co.uk.I therefore think that the letters did inform Mr F that his transfer values were held in cash as 
no investment instructions had been received. They also set out what action Mr F needed to 
take in order to have the transfer values invested. 
These letters were posted to Mr F and Im satisfied that they were correctly addressed. 
Furthermore, whilst I take on board Mr Fs comments about the postal service, it seems to 
me that on the balance of probability at least one of these letters would have been delivered 
successfully. 
I do however note that Mr F has said that he gave instructions to Hargreaves Lansdown to 
send all communications to him electronically. However, Hargreaves Lansdown have said 
that their pension transfer system did not send out such letters electronically. Instead, they 
could only be posted.
I appreciate that this did not follow the instruction that Mr F says he gave. However, within 
section A6 of Hargreaves Lansdowns Terms and Conditions, titled communications with 
you, the following is stated: you must provide us with your permanent postal address, to 
which we shall send all postal correspondence agreed at our sole discretion.
Section G of Hargreaves Lansdowns Terms and Conditions is headed this section applies 
to you if you use our paperless service. This section confirms that by registering for the 
paperless service, contract notes and investment reports would not be sent by post. It is also 
says that changes to holdings and new issues will be sent by email or secure message 
where possible. However, it is also stated that In certain circumstances we may consider it 
is still appropriate to write to you by post. 
Also within this section, under the heading Acknowledgement of account activity it is stated 
where appropriate and where it is possible to do so we will acknowledge activity relating to 
your Account electronically. Finally, under the heading Further information it is stated We 
aim to move other communications to email and we will automatically add these services as 
they become available.
Therefore, whilst Mr F had asked for communication to be sent via email, when Hargreaves 
Lansdown sent the letters of late March and early April to him in the post, they were still 
acting within their Terms and Conditions. 
The Terms and Conditions say that not all communication from Hargreaves Lansdown could, 
or would, be sent electronically. The Terms and Conditions also confirmed that electronic 
communication did not apply to all of Hargreaves Lansdowns services and communications. 
I therefore dont think that when Hargreaves Lansdown posted letters to Mr F they had acted 
unreasonably.
However, the Terms and Conditions did confirm that under the paperless service investment 
reports would be sent electronically. I have seen copies of the investment reports sent to Mr 
F in Summer and Autumn 2020 and Spring 2021. These reports showed that the transfer 
values were held in cash and had not been invested. 
I am therefore satisfied that, in addition to the letters posted in late February and early March 
2020, Mr F was also sent electronic communication which informed him that his transfer 
values were held in cash. In short, Hargreaves Lansdown gave Mr F the information he 
needed in relation to how his pension was invested. 
Mr F contacted Hargreaves Lansdown on 23 July 2021. During one of the telephone calls 
made that day he gave investment instructions to Hargreaves Lansdown. Mr F also raised his complaint with Hargreaves Lansdown and asked for the investment instructions he gave 
that day to be applied retrospectively.
Mr F told Hargreaves Lansdown that he thought their online transfer submission was unclear 
and confusing. Mr F has also said that during this telephone call the member of staff he 
spoke to at Hargreaves Lansdown admitted that the information on the online submission 
was misleading.
I have listened very carefully to recordings of these telephone conversations. The member of 
staff does not agree or admit that the submission process is misleading. Instead, the 
member of staff says that he notes Mr Fs comments and says that he will pass these on for 
him, so that his complaint can be dealt with. But even if the member of staff did agree with 
Mr F, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to treat that as Hargreaves Lansdowns 
final, considered, view on the matter. It should also be noted that my role is to look at 
everything afresh, and my view is that the online transfer submission wasnt unclear. 
Turning to Mr Fs complaint that Hargreaves Lansdown did not respond to his data subject 
access request, I have had sight of screen shots Hargreaves Lansdown has provided to 
evidence their response. Im satisfied that this evidence shows that Hargreaves Lansdown 
did reply to Mr F within the required timescale. I have checked to ensure that Hargreaves 
Lansdown responded to the correct email address for Mr F, and they did. Im therefore 
satisfied with Hargreaves Lansdowns response and wont be asking it to take any further 
action.
Considering the above details and taking into account all of the evidence that I have seen, 
Im unable to uphold Mr Fs complaint that Hargreaves Lansdown did not follow his 
instructions to invest cash transferred into his SIPP from other pension plans.
I dont think that Mr F provided any investment instructions to Hargreaves Lansdown when 
he completed his online pension transfer requests. Mr F didnt provide investment 
instructions to Hargreaves Lansdown until 23 July 2021, when his instructions were then 
followed. 
I think that Hargreaves Lansdown did inform Mr F by both postal and electronic 
communication that he hadnt provided any investment instructions and as a result his 
transfer values were held as cash in his SIPP. I therefore dont think that Hargreaves 
Lansdown did anything wrong. 
Im also unable to uphold Mr Fs complaint that Hargreaves Lansdown didnt respond to his 
data subject access request within the required timescale. The evidence that I have seen 
shows that Hargraves Lansdown did reply to Mr F within the required timescale and that this 
reply was correctly addressed. It was sent to Mr F electronically.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaints against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman