DRN-3763646
The complaint
Mr C complains that PayrNet Limited wont refund payments he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr C disputes two payments from his account on 12 December 2020  one for £3 and the 
other for £283. Both were made to a payee he didnt recognise. He says that he believes 
that his computer that hed pawned had been hacked. He is unhappy at the time taken to 
look into this.
PayrNet is responsible for dealing with the complaint on his account. In April 2021 a final 
response was issued offering Mr C £50 in compensation as it said that his complaint was 
not solved in a timely manner. Mr C referred his complaint to this service and in October 
2021 PayrNet said that it had been unable to recall the funds from the business that held the 
account receiving them.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. This service had asked 
PayrNet for information about how the payments were authenticated and the device used. 
And about what other devices were registered on the account. This hadnt been received 
and she said that PayrNet hadnt shown that Mr C authorised the payments. So, he shouldnt 
be responsible for them. She said that the payments should be refunded together with eight 
percent simple interest and Mr C also paid a further £75 in compensation for the 
unnecessary trouble and upset caused.
Mr C agreed with the settlement. PayrNet didnt provide any further information or say 
whether it accepted the recommendation. And so, the complaint was passed for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view PayrNet has now had sufficient opportunity to provide the information that wed 
requested and to provide its response to the investigators recommendation issued to it on 
22 September 2022. It hasnt said by what date it would be able to provide anything further 
and so I now consider it fair to make a decision on this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with personal security information. And if they 
werent authorised Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
As our investigator has said we havent received information about how these payments 
were authenticated. Ive seen some information about the IP address that seemed to be 
associated with activity on Mr Cs account at certain times. But Ive not seen how that related 
to any device used to set up this specific payee and make the payments. So, I cant be 
satisfied that PayrNet has shown that these payments were authenticated.
Mr C has given an explanation of what he happened and reported this to Action Fraud as he 
was asked to. Ive also seen the ongoing history of online chat messages provided by 
PayrNet. Mr C had responded to questions and these often seemed to be repeated.
PayrNet hasnt given an explanation of why it doesnt accept his version of events. And 
beyond there being an unsuccessful request for the return of the funds from the other 
financial business involved, Im unclear what other action was taken. 
Im not persuaded on the information available that Mr C authorised these payments. Id 
expect him to keep his security information safe. I cant say hes right that it was his 
computer that was hacked here or not and that in the circumstances hed left his security 
information in a way openly accessible to others. And as I have no other information from 
PayrNet about how these payments came to be made then in any event I dont find it 
reasonable that he be held responsible for them
I agree with the resolution suggested by our investigator. Im not clear that Mr C has been 
paid the initial £50 offered by PayrNet and so I include this in my award to be paid if it hasnt 
already. The further compensation is reasonable in light of my findings and the 
inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require PayrNet Limited to:
1) Refund £283 to Mr C.
2) Pay simple interest of eight percent per annum from the date of the payments to the 
date of the settlement.
3) Pay Mr C a total of £125 in compensation (which for the avoidance of doubt includes 
the £50 already offered by PayrNet).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman