DRN-1916784
 
The complaint
Mr L says Gain Credit LLC irresponsibly lent to him. Mr L has said the lending caused him 
problems. He had to borrow further, owed other short-term credit providers and got into a 
cycle of debit.                            
Background
This complaint is about a credit facility which had a limit agreed at the outset and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amount he or she needed. This was an open-ended 
product.
In the case of Mr L, Gain Credits records show that he applied for £1,800. Mr L had a 
declared monthly income of £1,840 and expenditure of £1,100. Gain Credit says it carried 
out credit worthiness checks and a credit reference agency check before lending to Mr L. 
The credit limit agreed for Mr L was £920 and started on 4 June 2016.  
At the time the complaint was brought to this service there appears to be an outstanding 
balance which has been sold to a debt collection agency. 
In our latest assessment our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to 
have been provided. But they thought that a pattern of borrowing had developed suggesting 
Mr L was having problems managing his money. The adjudicator said that Gain Credit 
shouldnt have provided further funds to Mr L after he had made a £46 withdrawal on            
7 December 2016.
Gain Credit didnt reply to the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was offered.
When the facility was approved, Gain Credit needed to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, Gain Credit had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.To be clear, Mr L wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he borrowed 
plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of at least 
12 months. So overall, I think that this means the checks Gain Credit carried out had to 
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mr L would likely be able 
to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
Mr L was granted a running credit facility with a £920 limit. According to the credit 
agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, and ran 
the facility for 12 months, he would have paid a total of £1,252.17. This means the monthly 
repayment Mr L would be expected to make would be £104.35 per month.
 Before granting the facility, Gain Credit asked Mr L about his monthly income and 
expenditure. Mr L confirmed his monthly income was £1,840 and his monthly expenditure 
was £1,100.  Gain Credit has also told us that it completed an internal affordability 
assessment and completed a credit check. So, based on the information that Gain Credit 
gathered, it seemed that on a pounds and pence basis Mr L would be able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. 
At the start of the lending relationship, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Gain Credit to have 
relied on the information it was provided. And the information Mr L declared about his 
circumstances, coupled with the results of his credit check, suggested he could afford to 
repay the facility. So, taking into account the individual circumstances of this case. I dont 
think Gain Credit needed to do more before this facility was granted.
But Gain Credit had an obligation to monitor the account to ensure Mr L wasnt experiencing 
difficulty in maintaining the account. The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  set 
out guidance in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of the guidance relevant 
at the time of the borrowing said;
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are sign of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
After taking this into consideration, the second of our adjudicators didnt think any borrowing 
should have been given after 7 December 2016 because the borrowing pattern that had 
developed suggested Mr L was having problems managing his money and wasnt using the 
facility as intended. 
As explained by our adjudicator, Mr L had withdrawn a total of £1,210 within nine days of the 
facility being taken. This was done by a total of eight separate withdrawals. And in order for 
the facility to stay within the agreed limit of £920 Mr L had made two payments on 9 June 
2016 totalling £293.34. 
From July onwards Mr L would make a payment  usually around the minimum payable  
and then draw down whatever credit was still available shortly afterwards. As examples,  Mr 
L made a payment of £80 on 7 July 2016 and then drew down £46 on 9 July. In August, he 
repaid £87.31 on the 7th and drew down £46 on the 8th. This pattern continued each month.
Like the adjudicator explained, by Mr L continuing to draw down whatever small amount of 
credit that was available under the facility, the balance was never reducing. And I think a 
pattern was developing typical of someone potentially experiencing financial difficulties and 
becoming reliant on this type of lending. I think this pattern was clear once Mr L had made a 
payment total £82.07 on 7 December 2016 and then withdrew an additional £46 on the same 
day. I think that by this time, Gain Credit should have recognised that Mr L wasnt using the credit facility as it was intended as the borrowing pattern suggested it was unsustainable for 
him. 
So, Im partially upholding this complaint as I dont think any further draw downs should have 
been allowed after Mr L took the £46 on 7 December 2016. There was sufficient evidence to 
suggest that Mr L was struggling with his finances and was becoming persistently reliant 
upon the borrowing. He wasnt making any inroads into repayment of the principal amount 
borrowed  he was just servicing the debt. 
Putting things right  what Gain Credit needs to do
If Gain Credit has sold the outstanding debt, then it should buy it back if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If its not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns 
taken after 7 December 2016.
B. Treat all payments Mr L made towards his account after 7 December 2016 as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Mr L would have been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, Gain Credit will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments from the date they would have arisen to the date the 
refund is made.
D. If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Gain Credit can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then Gain Credit 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. If Gain Credit has 
previously written-off any principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances 
made up only of principal it has already written off. 
E. Gain Credit should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ls 
credit file after 7 December 2016.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to deduct tax from this interest. Gain Credit 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman