DRN-3486114
The complaint
Mrs L complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended.
What happened
Mrs L was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with PSA.
Towards the end of the agreement the car developed a fault with the airbag system. Mrs L 
returned the car to the dealership for repairs, but the parts were delayed, and it was agreed 
between Mrs L and the dealership that the car would be collected from the dealership at the 
end of the agreement. Mrs L handed the dealership all of the paperwork for the car including 
the V5C, the service history and the log book.
PSAs agent collected the car. Mrs L then received a letter from PSA asking her to pay 
charges of £650. Mrs L queried the charges and was advised that they related  in part  to 
the missing service history and log book.
Mrs L contacted the dealership, who said that they still held all of the paperwork for the car. it 
advised Mrs L that PSAs agent had collected the car and the keys, but not the paperwork.
The dealership offered to send the paperwork to PSA, but PSA said it was too late because 
the car had already been sold at auction.
Mrs L disputed the charges. In response, PSA said it was Mrs Ls responsibility to ensure 
that all items were with the car and that it wouldnt remove the charges for the missing 
documents. It offered to remove 25% of the charges as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that PSA had advised Mrs L that all of 
the documentation needed to be with the car when it was collected. He said that although 
the dealership had contacted PSA and offered to send the documents, it was too late 
because the car had been sold. The investigator said it wasnt fair to say that PSA should 
have done anything differently because it hadnt been made aware that the dealership had 
the documents to hand over separately.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said all of the documents were left with the dealership and that as 
the collection agent was able to collect the keys, he should have been able to collect the 
paperwork. Mrs L said the dealership had accepted responsibility for handing the car back 
and hadnt made her aware that it would be keeping the keys and the documents separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the letter which PSA sent to Mrs L about ending her agreement. This says that 
its her responsibility to make sure the car is returned with all of the documents, otherwise 
there may be additional charges.
Based on the contents of the letter, Im satisfied that Mrs L was made aware that she 
needed to return all of the documents with the car.
Im aware that Mrs L left the car  and the documents  with the dealership. Mrs L has said 
that she considered the dealership to be responsible for handing the car back. Whilst I can 
see that the dealership had agreed to facilitate the collection of the car, Im not persuaded 
that this affects Mrs Ls responsibility to make sure that the documents are returned with the 
car. This obligation stems from the finance agreement, and this agreement is between Mrs L 
and PSA. Because of this, Im unable to say that PSA has acted unfairly by asking Mrs L to 
pay the charges for the missing documents.
Ive gone on to consider whether PSA acted fairly when Mrs L realised what had happened. I 
can see that the dealership contacted PSA about the documents and offered to send them. 
PSA has told this service that it contacted the auction site to see whether it was possible to 
send the documents on but was advised that the car had already been sold without any 
documents. This is why PSA told the dealership that it was too late to send on the 
documents.
Im unable to say that PSA acted unfairly or unreasonably here. I think it made reasonable 
efforts and appropriate enquiries to see whether the document could be sent on from the 
dealership. PSA doesnt have any control over how quickly a car is sold at auction, as this 
isnt a decision taken by the collection agent. Where a car is sold without documents, its 
likely to sell at a lower price than a  car with documents. The charges for the missing 
documents are to compensate PSA for the reduction in value in the car due to the missing 
documents.
On balance, Im unbale to say that PSA has made an error or tried Mrs L unfairly. I think the 
goodwill reduction of 25% from Mrs Ls balance was a fair offer.
I appreciate that Mrs L feels strongly that the dealership was at fault. Im only able to look at 
whether PSA acted fairly. If Mrs L wants to pursue the dealership as a civil matter, this 
decision doesnt prevent her from doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman