DRN-3620889
The complaint
Mr H complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc staff dealt with him when he attended a 
branch.
What happened
Mr H says he attended a HSBC branch in October 2021 to apply for an account upgrade. He 
says HSBC staff were rude and dismissive and he had to wait to speak to another staff 
member. Mr H says he would like an apology from the staff members and further 
compensation for the mental and emotional distress he was caused.
HSBC says it is sorry for any upset and inconvenience caused and accepts it ought to have 
managed Mr Hs expectations more appropriately. It says Mr H can apply again for an 
account upgrade and has paid £50 compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and says the compensation isnt enough and says the staff 
should be held accountable. Our investigator thought it inevitable Mr H would have been 
asked questions for an account upgrade and thought it up to HSBC to decide if it offered an 
upgrade. The investigator didnt think it our role to order HSBC staff to apologise and thought 
the compensation offer appropriate as Mr H hadnt suffered any financial impact.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and questions why there isnt video footage of his branch 
attendance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
I make clear to Mr H that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to punish it. 
And that we consider complaints against a business and not individual staff members. So, it 
follows that we would not order a staff member to apologise to Mr H as he would like, as the 
complaint is against HSBC. And we cant hold staff accountable as Mr H suggests should 
happen.
I appreciate Mr H questions why the video footage has not been requested. I am sure Mr H 
appreciates that it highly unlikely such footage would be retained and that there would be no 
guarantee it would cover the incident or assist into finding out what took place. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has accepted that it ought to have dealt with Mr H more 
appropriately and has fairly explained to him the time periods for applying for an account 
upgrade. I am sure Mr H appreciates that questions of a relatively personal nature have to 
be asked of him by HSBC for such account upgrade applications. And Im satisfied that its 
up to HSBC, when exercising its commercial judgement, to decide if an account upgrade is 
approved.
The key issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. I have made clear that I think 
HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place and have made clear why I cant order staff 
members to apologise. I dont think Mr H suffered any financial loss as a result of what took 
place and am satisfied that compensation of £50 is fair and reasonable. I dont think what 
took place had a significant impact that justifies further compensation. And think that award 
is line with the type of awards we would make for this type of issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman