DRN-2841487
The complaint
Ms P has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) misinformed her 
about her direct debit, causing her to miss a payment.
What happened
Some years back, Ms P set up a direct debit to pay her Barclays credit card. But shes since 
been making manual payments instead, and so the direct debit became dormant.
In February 2021, Ms P called Barclays to let them know she couldnt make a manual 
payment that month. She asked the advisor if her direct debit was still in place, and they told 
her that it was and that it would take the proper amount.
However, because the direct debit was now dormant, the payment got returned. Ms P had to 
call again to make her payment, and that advisor didnt know what had gone wrong.
Barclays apologised and explained it hadnt shown on their systems that the direct debit was 
dormant, which is why their advisors had missed it. They accepted they shouldve checked 
this. They refunded the late fee and interest that had accumulated, set up the direct debit 
again for Ms P so that it was now active, fed things back to management, and paid Ms P £25 
compensation. They did not mark the payment as late on her credit file. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought Barclays had already resolved 
things fairly, saying theyd put Ms P into the position she shouldve been in had her payment 
gone through properly. Ms P didnt agree. She felt Barclays should update their systems so 
this didnt happen again. She also said she never got the notification about the new direct 
debit. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand why Ms P was frustrated when her direct debit bounced. She 
had proactively called Barclays in advance to make sure her direct debit was still in place, 
and she was entitled to rely on the Barclays staff to tell her if something was wrong. I can 
see both sides accept that Barclays got things wrong here.
I also understand that Ms P would like Barclays to change the way they work so this doesnt 
happen to her or anyone else again. I should explain that Im not able to change the way 
Barclays work in general. Its the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (or FCA for 
short) who regulate banks and their processes, and who look at things more generally. Im 
here to resolve individual complaints, so Ive thought carefully about how Barclays should 
put right this individual matter after getting things wrong.
My first concern is to make sure that Ms P hasnt lost out financially, such as by having to 
pay extra interest or fees or by having negative markers on her credit file. But here, Barclays 
have already refunded the extra interest and late fee that accumulated because of the direct 
debit bouncing. And theyve confirmed they havent registered any negative markers on 
Ms Ps credit file in relation to this issue. So theyve already done what I wouldve wanted 
them to do there.
Barclays have also reinstated the direct debit for Ms P. I understand Ms P didnt receive the 
notification, but Ive looked at Barclays logs and can see it was sent to her. It may be that it 
got lost in the post or otherwise misplaced, but Im reasonably satisfied it was sent. In any 
case, the direct debit is in place again and active  though its worth bearing in mind that if 
Ms P does not use the direct debit for a long time, then it will go dormant again. Im afraid 
thats just the way direct debits work, to protect customers from potentially forgetting about a 
direct debit and having it continue indefinitely.
Lastly, I think Barclays should compensate Ms P for her stress and inconvenience. In terms 
of the amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind again that were not the regulator 
and so were not here to punish or fine businesses. Ive also kept in mind that Ms Ps 
payment was taken successfully on her next call, that Barclays acted relatively quickly to 
make sure Ms P hadnt lost out financially, and that they apologised, admitted fault, and fed 
things back to management. In the circumstances, I think the £25 compensation theyve 
already paid is fair to put things right.
So while I do appreciate that this was a most frustrating experience for Ms P, I think Barclays 
have already put things right fairly, so I dont require them to do anything further in this 
particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman