DRN-3244010
The complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about the Mortgage Current Account (MCA) linked to her mortgage held 
with Barclays Bank UK Plc. Ms F is unhappy that Barclays reduced the limit on her MCA 
overdraft, and that it sent contradictory letters about this. Ms F also disputes that her 
mortgage is, as claimed by Barclays, in arrears.
What happened
Ms F has a mortgage with Barclays, taken out in 2008. The mortgage is split into three sub-
accounts. The mortgage comes with a MCA. The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works 
like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by 
the same amount, due to what Barclays calls rebalancing.  This can be spent by the 
borrower, through the mortgage current account. But its not intended to be an additional 
regular income stream for the borrower; nor should it be used to make the mortgage 
repayments.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or re-mortgage of the property). 
The annual statement for 2020 shows that as at 30 September 2020 Ms F had a balance of 
£52,934.20 on the first account, £16,220.48 on the second account and £11,931.75 on the 
third account. In addition, the overdraft on the MCA was £62,729.20. Ms F makes payment 
manually, rather than by direct debit. 
On 20 May 2021 Barclays wrote to Ms F telling her that it was reducing the MCA limit from 
£69,270 to £67,250 with effect from 17 May 2021. On 25 May Barclays sent a second letter, 
identical to the 20 May 2021 letter except that the date the reserve would reduce was from 
16 July 2021.
Both letters gave Ms F information about who to contact to discuss this, including options 
about reducing the MCA reserve, leaving it the same or increasing it, with phone numbers to 
call.
Ms F complained to Barclays, saying that the first letter had incorrect dates on it, which had 
caused her distress. Ms F also said that when she spoke to the bank, the letters couldnt be 
seen on the system, which made her think they might be part of a scam. It wasnt possible 
for Barclays to increase the MCA reserve, as Ms F requested, due to affordability.
In its final response letter, Barclays explained that the decision to reduce the limit was due to 
missed payments and arrears. Barclays suggested setting up a direct debit to make 
payments, in order to ensure there were no shortfalls each month.
Barclays acknowledged thered been distress caused to Ms F and offered her compensation 
of £50. Ms F didnt accept this and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at what had happened.
The investigator thought that, in the circumstances, it was reasonable for Barclays to reduce 
the MCA reserve, and that its decision to decline an increase due to affordability was also 
reasonable. The investigator suggested Ms F might want to set up a direct debit to pay her 
mortgage each month, in order to ensure there were no shortfalls in payment, which had 
resulted in arrears.
The investigator thought the £50 offered by Ms F for trouble and upset was fair and 
reasonable and he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further.
Ms F didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said there is a vast difference 
between the MCA limit and the amount of her overdraft, and this will cause her a financial 
loss.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I am sorry to note that Ms F has been in ill health, and I hope she is now 
recovered. I note that the banks first letter arrived when Ms F had first come out of hospital, 
and I understand why this caused her distress  because the date the letter said the MCA 
was being reduced pre-dated the letter. 
However, the bank corrected this within 5 days and clarified that the MCA was reducing from 
July 2021. 
Ive looked at the reasons why the bank has taken this decision. Im satisfied that this was a 
reasonable decision for Barclays to make. The bank has explained that, due to the way Ms F 
pays her mortgage  by manual payment  there is a shortfall each month which has 
resulted in arrears.
The banks records show that on the first sub-account, payment due is £362.56 which must 
be paid and applied to the account before the end of the month. On 29 November 2021, the 
account was in credit by £69.24. On 30 November 2021 the instalment of £362.56 was 
applied,, leaving the account £293.32 in arrears. Payments of £187.50 and £180 were made 
on 1 December 2021, leaving the account £78.18 in credit. But on 31 December 2021, the 
instalment of £362.56 was applied, meaning that on 31 December 2021, the account was in 
arrears by £288.38. This is repeated on the other sub-accounts, with Ms F paying the 
previous months instalment at the beginning of the following month, resulting in the account 
being in arrears.
In the circumstances, although the arrears are relatively small, they have been ongoing 
since 2018 (according to the banks records). In the past, it would only be when arrears were 
cumulatively around two months missed payments that Barclays would write to borrowers 
telling them they were in arrears, but the bank has revised this policy and now contacts borrowers with ongoing arrears to try to get things back on track. From Ms Fs position, this 
would be relatively simple for her to do by setting up a direct debit to pay the mortgage at the 
end of the month, rather than making manual payments in arrears at the beginning of the 
following month.
In any event, this resulted in Barclays taking the decision to reduce the MCA reserve. I think 
this was a decision Barclays was entitled to make in all the circumstances. Although Ms F 
requested the reserve be reinstated, this wasnt affordable. Again, I am satisfied this was a 
decision that was within Barclays commercial discretion.
Barclays has acknowledged that its customer service could have been better, and accepts 
that its first letter was confusing, given that the date the letter said the reserve would be 
reduced had already passed. But the bank quickly corrected this, and it has offered £50 
compensation for the error, which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Im 
not going to ask Barclays to do anything further.
I think it is also worth mentioning that the MCA reserve is payable in full when the mortgage 
term comes to an end (in 2031, so nine years away) or if the mortgage is repaid sooner. It 
would be remiss of me if I did not remind Ms F that she will need to make sure she has a 
repayment plan in place to pay off the MCA reserve (plus the interest accrued on it) in full 
when the mortgage comes to an end. If Ms F doesnt have a repayment strategy for this, she 
might find it helpful to speak to an independent financial adviser to discuss this. The 
Financial Conduct Authority website has a register of IFAs where Ms F can find someone 
convenient to her to discuss this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman