DRN-3041969
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Starling Bank Limited not sending her notification that her account 
application had been approved. And subsequently, Starling Bank Limiteds decision to close 
her account without notice.
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs C applied for a personal account with Starling Bank. Mrs Cs account 
application was approved, and Starling Bank sent Mrs C a notification through the online 
banking application. Mrs C complained to Starling Bank about not receiving a notification.
The day after the account application was approved, Starling Bank made the decision to 
close Mrs Cs account with immediate notice. Starling Bank didnt give Mrs C a reason for 
the closure.
The investigator who reviewed things didnt think Starling Bank had acted unfairly. He was 
satisfied theyd sent Mrs C a notification about her account being accepted on their app and 
he found that Starling Banks terms and conditions allowed them to close Mrs Cs account in 
the way they did.
Mrs C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Starling Bank to do anything to put things right. Ive 
explained my reasons further below.
Notification of account opening
Mrs C says she didnt receive a notification from Starling Bank to let her know her account 
application had been approved. I can understand why this would have been inconvenient. 
However, Starling Bank have provided screen shots to our service to show that they sent a 
message to Mrs C using the banking application. I recognise Mrs C says she didnt receive 
this notification  but as Starling Bank have provided evidence to show they sent it, I cant 
fairly uphold her complaint on this point. Considering the evidence Ive received, I think its 
more likely than not there was an issue with the notifications being received on Mrs Cs 
phone rather than Starling Bank not sending it. And therefore, I cant fairly ask them to do 
anything differently.
Account closure
Firstly, Starling Bank has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. Its important to point out that its not for this service to 
interfere with the banks processes  our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes. 
And having reviewed the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Starling Bank have 
acted appropriately.
Starling Bank hasnt shared any information about why they took the action of immediately 
closing Mrs Cs account with Mrs C  and theyre not obliged to. Im not able to share the 
reasons with Mrs C but Id like to reassure her that based on the evidence Ive seen and the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Starling Bank were fair in their actions. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mrs C decided to stop banking with Starling Bank, she wouldnt have to explain why. 
Starling Bank can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and 
conditions of the account. The terms of this account allow Starling Bank to close the account 
immediately in certain circumstances. Having reviewed the full circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied Starling Bank have relied on and complied with the terms and 
conditions when closing Mrs Cs account. 
Overall, Starling Bank exercised their right to no longer offer Mrs C banking facilities and I've 
seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to 
do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman