DRN-2300755
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) hasnt paid a claim made under her pet 
insurance policy in full.
What happened
Mrs Ms dog has a medical condition which requires ongoing medication. Previous claims 
have been made for the medication under Mrs Ms pet insurance policy and settled in full.
In December 2019 Mrs M submitted a further claim. This was for the medication and £1.99 
for postage.
Allianz paid for the cost of the medication itself but didnt cover the cost of postage. Mrs M 
complained to Allianz, she said that previous claims had been covered in full, including the 
postage, so this one should be too.
Allianz said the policy doesnt cover postage, as this isnt within the definition of veterinary 
treatment, only the medication is. They said that some previous claims didnt have a postage 
charge and when it had been included on others, they had paid it in error, rather than 
because it was covered under the policy. As Mrs M was unhappy with this, she approached 
this service.
Our investigator looked at everything but didnt uphold the complaint. She said in her opinion 
the policy didnt cover the cost of postage and the terms were clear. She also said that 
Allianz had paid the postage previously in error, but that didnt mean they had to continue to 
do so. 
As Mrs M was unhappy with the outcome, she asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms policy says what is covered, and this includes:
Veterinary treatment
The cost of any of the following when required to treat injury and illness:
Any examination, consultation, advice, diagnostic procedure, surgery and nursing 
carried out by a vet, a veterinary nurse or another member of a veterinary practice 
under the supervision of a vet; and
Any medication legally prescribed by a vet.
So this says the policy covers medication prescribed by a vet. And this is what Allianz has 
paid for. Whilst it doesnt mention postage, this doesnt mean it is then covered as Mrs M 
has said. Rather the policy lists what is covered, in this case medication. 
So as medication is covered, and this is what Allianz has paid for, I dont think they have 
acted unfairly by not paying for the additional postage charges. These are separate to the 
medication itself. And its the medication thats covered under the policy.
Ive taken into account what Mrs M has said about legal principles. When making my 
decision, Ive had regard to the relevant law. But Ive also considered the terms and 
conditions of the insurance contract between Allianz and Mrs M and what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Mrs M has said that any unclear terms should be in her favour. But I dont think the terms are 
unclear. It says that medication is covered, and that is what Allianz has paid for. 
I appreciate that Allianz has paid for the postage costs on some claims where it was 
included before (not all the claims included it), but they have said this was paid in error. And 
I think its fair for Allianz to consider each new claim for medication as presented against the 
policy terms. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say this then means they have to pay 
any future costs on separate claims, when it isnt covered and has been paid in error in 
some previous separate claims. Allianz has said they wouldnt be asking for the postage 
paid in error on previous claims to be returned, and I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs M has also said that she has saved Allianz money on the cost of medication, by 
purchasing cheaper medication, which had an additional postage cost. She says that she 
could have purchased more expensive medication which didnt have a postage cost. Whilst I 
appreciate this could be the case, it was Mrs Ms choice to purchase it from that particular 
retailer, which attracted a postage cost, and not something which Allianz required or asked 
her to do.
As Ive outlined, Im satisfied the policy covers medication prescribed by a vet, and thats 
what Allianz has paid for. So Im not going to ask them to cover the cost of postage.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman