DRN-3735813
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC misled him about the timescales to remove its 
charge and confirm repayment of his buy to let mortgage. He asks for £500 compensation 
for the time he spent chasing Barclays, poor service and communication and his distress 
and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S repaid his buy to let mortgage in October 2021. He says Barclays told him hed receive 
confirmation that its charge was removed from his title and the mortgage repaid within 10 
working days. He said he didnt receive this until late December 2021, and then only after 
complaining.
Our investigator said the mortgage was redeemed as instructed and there was no evidence 
of significant delays that caused detriment to Mr S. She said even if Mr S was given incorrect 
information about the timescales this didnt cause any loss.
Mr S didnt agree, saying the outcome wasnt fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S made a payment on 22 October 2021 (a Friday) and this was applied to his mortgage 
on 25 October 2021, the next working day. Barclays says the payment was short (by about 
£10) and Mr S made the remaining payment on 29 October 2021. It provided account 
records to support this.
Barclays says the charge was released and confirmation sent to Mr S in late November 
2021. 
Mr S made a complaint on 12 December 2021. He said the letter from Barclays confirming 
the mortgage was repaid didnt arrive until 11 December 2021. Barclays records show it had 
re-sent the letter by recorded delivery the previous day. I cant fairly say Barclays was 
responsible if the original letter went astray in the post. 
Mr S says he was told by Barclays several times that hed receive written confirmation the 
mortgage was repaid and the charge released within 10 days. If so, this information was 
incorrect. Barclays says it aims to do this within 30 days of the mortgage being repaid. I dont 
think there were any significant delays here.
Mr S says he wasted time chasing Barclays because of the incorrect information about the 
timescales and it not providing the confirmation in a timely manner. He says he should be 
compensated. 
Mr S hasnt explained how this caused any financial loss, or how having to wait longer than 
hed expected for the letter caused problems. He hasnt provided evidence to show that this 
confirmation was urgently needed or that his circumstances meant not having it caused 
problems or significant concern. I cant see that there was ever any suggestion or concern 
his redemption payment hadnt been received. In fact, Mr S must have known it had been 
applied to the mortgage account when he made the small final payment. If Mr S spent time 
chasing Barclays for a written confirmation, I dont think Barclays is responsible for this.
I dont think Barclays caused any significant or unreasonable delays in redeeming Mr Ss 
mortgage and sending confirmation of this. Even if it had given Mr S incorrect information 
about the timescales theres no evidence this caused any loss or created any problems. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to pay 
compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman