DRN-1705350
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as MBNA unfairly defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr M says he spoke to MBNA about his account in November 2019 and was told that his 
account would not default if he made a payment. He says MBNA then defaulted his account 
and didn't send him any letters about it. Mr M says had he been given the correct information 
then he would have paid the arrears to avoid the default. He says MBNA has acted unfairly 
and would like the default removed and also says he was within the credit limit.
MBNA says Mr M's account was in arrears from March 2019 and he didn't make a monthly 
payment from then until September 2019. It says it told Mr M on numerous occasions that 
his account may default and sent him letters and text messages about this. It says it sent the 
default notices and letters to Mr M in November 2019 and hasn't made a mistake. It also 
says it spoke to Mr M in November 2019 and told him his account was in arrears.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didn't think it mattered that Mr M's account was within the credit limit and thought 
the relationship between MBNA and Mr M had broken down and so it hadn't acted unfairly 
by defaulting the account. The investigator listened to the calls between the parties and 
thought Mr M had been told on numerous occasions that the account may default and didn't 
think Mr M had been told if he made a payment then the account wouldn't default. The 
investigator asked Mr M to provide evidence of this call from his telephone provider
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says there must be another call that MBNA hasn't 
disclosed. He says he would have made the payment and avoided the default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I have looked at MBNA's records and can see that between March and September 2019 Mr 
M didn't make any payments to his credit card account and the balance was around £4,000. 
I can also see that MBNA sent numerous letters about this to Mr M and spoke to him about 
the arrears and sent various text messages. I'm satisfied that throughout this period 
MBNA told Mr M that there was a risk that his account would default if he didn't make any 
payments or bring the account back in order. I think Mr M ought to have realised this and 
that it was his responsibility to manage his account.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance on the registering of a 
default and says it ought to be registered when there is between three and six months of 
missed payments and where the relationship has broken down. I'm satisfied that the relationship between MBNA and Mr M had broken down. And that MBNA was entitled in 
these circumstances to default the account and didn't make a mistake or act unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr M says he was told  the account would not default if he made a payment 
and that conversation took place in November 2019. I have listened to the available calls 
from that time and I am satisfied that at no stage was Mr M told that. I'm satisfied he was told 
his account was in arrears and that he needed to make monthly repayments of over £300 to 
bring the account back in order. I'm also satisfied that regardless of what Mr M was told he 
didn't make any further payments that month in any event.
I appreciate Mr M says there was another call that MBNA hasn't gievn us. I'm sorry to 
disagree with Mr M but I don't think that is the case. If there was a further call then I would 
have expected to have seen a note on MBNA's records as every call resulted in such notes. 
And I think it unlikely MBNA would have told Mr M that if he made a payment that would 
avoid a default as I think at that stage Mr M had made very few of the required payments 
since March 2019. I also think that Mr M could have provided evidence of any such call to 
MBNA from his telephone provider but hasn't done so.
Overall I think it ought to have been clear to Mr M from the various conversations and 
communication he had with MBNA that his account was likely to default. I don't think MBNA 
acted unfairly by doing so. I can't fairly hold MBNA responsible for Mr M not receiving any 
mail as it's not  responsible for the delivery of mail and in any event Mr M ought to have 
realised that the account would default. I don't think it matters that the account was within 
the credit limit or that had anything to do with what took place
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman