DRN-3601432
The complaint
Mr G complained because HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as first direct, refused to refund him 
for some transactions which he said he didnt make. 
Mr G said he wanted a refund of the disputed transactions, and any associated overdraft 
charges.
What happened
On 27 October 2021, Mr G rang HSBC and said his debit card, credit card, and the SIM out 
of his phone, had been stolen on 23 October. Hed frozen the card using the app, but had 
been told to ring. Mr G told HSBC that the only money that had been taken was from his 
debit card, and reported a number of transactions which he said he hadnt made. He also 
said his first direct app had been deleted off his phone, but he said he didnt know how his 
PIN had been accessed.
HSBC refunded five contactless transactions. But it didnt refund cash machine withdrawals 
for £100, £200.99, £20, £30, £100, £200 and £200. Nor did it refund a chip and PIN 
transaction to a retailer for £253.33. The phone adviser on 27 October told Mr G that the 
only way these could have happened was by having the card and knowing the PIN, and it 
was unlikely that Mr G could have been shoulder-surfed because the previous genuine 
transaction had been earlier in the day. 
HSBC confirmed this outcome in its final response letter on 2 November. It acknowledged a 
crime reference number which Mr G had provided, but said that its investigations were 
separate and focused on how the card and PIN had been used. Without knowing the PIN 
and having the card, the transactions couldnt have taken place, so Mr G was liable.
HSBCs final response also pointed out that once the app had been deleted, the Digital 
Secure Key would have had to be activated again before the app would work. And its 
records showed this hadnt happened with Mr Gs phone.
Mr G didnt accept this, but HSBC pointed out there were other factors as well as the fact 
that the transactions had been verified by PIN. For example, Mr G had said the mobile app 
had been deleted from his phone, but the banks records didnt show this. And Mr G had said 
hed downloaded the app again on 24 October. But HSBC explained that he couldnt have 
logged on and used the app to freeze his card unless hed first re-activated his Digital 
Secure Key  which hadnt happened.
Mr G then accepted HSBC was correct that he hadnt downloaded the app again, but said he 
must have mistaken the app being deleted from his home screen, with being deleted from 
the phone entirely. He said HSBCs evidence fell a long way short of proof that hed acted 
fraudulently. 
Mr G contacted this service. He said that he understood the bank needed proof that hed 
authorised the transactions in order to hold him liable. He also said HSBC should have 
blocked the transactions in the first place. He said HSBC had refunded low value contactless 
transactions, but said he was still out of pocket, and he wanted this refunded. He said he 
would also have incurred some overdraft charges which he also wanted refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said that Mr G had said hed last used 
the card around 18:46 on 23 October, which was confirmed by HSBCs records. This was 
over two hours before the first disputed cash machine withdrawal, so it wasnt likely to have 
been when Mr Gs PIN was compromised. She also said that the pattern of withdrawals 
wasnt typical of a fraudster. And our investigator also noted that Mr G had said his app had 
been deleted, but hed told HSBC that hed logged on after the cards were stolen. And 
HSBCs computer records didnt show the app had been reinstalled.
So the investigator concluded that Mr G had carried out the disputed transactions himself, or 
had authorised someone else to do so. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied. He said he didnt know how the perpetrator had gained knowledge of 
his PIN, and could only assume theyd seen him use it on one of his other cards, or to open 
the phone. He said hed told both HSBC and this service that hed been mistaken about the 
app being fully deleted from his phone, when it had only been removed from his home 
screen, not by him. Mr G also repeated that hed have expected HSBC to pick up and 
prevent the fraudulent withdrawals. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in October 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and 
the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Mr G authorised the disputed 
transactions. Id also point out that in reaching my decision, Ive considered is whats more 
likely than not to have happened. Its not, as Mr G said in one of his emails, that HSBC has 
to prove he acted fraudulently, in order to refuse a refund.
Ive looked at notes and listened to call recordings between Mr G and HSBC. One of the key 
pieces of information which is missing is any clear account from Mr G about exactly what 
happened on 23 October. There are no details of events, or how any of the alleged thefts 
happened. Mr G said that:
- his HSBC debit card and credit card had been stolen, and also the SIM had been 
stolen from his phone;
- the phone itself wasnt stolen;
- the HSBC app had been deleted from the phone. HSBC pointed out that its systems 
showed the app hadnt been deleted or reinstalled  and Mr G had used it to block 
the card. Mr G then said it had just been deleted from his home screen; 
- hed had other credit cards in his wallet at the time but these hadnt been taken.
In a number of the calls, HSBC asked repeatedly about the events but Mr G said he couldnt 
remember.
I find it improbable that any fraudster who had obtained Mr Gs wallet, containing two HSBC 
cards, one other credit card and Mr Gs corporate card, would only have taken the two HSBC cards, and left the others. Its very unlikely that, having stolen two cards, the fraudster 
would then only have used one of them. Its equally improbable that any fraudster would also 
have stolen Mr Gs phone, removed the SIM, deleted the HSBC app from the phone or home 
screen  and then returned the phone to Mr G without his knowledge. 
Its much more likely that any fraudster would have stolen all the cards, and spent as much 
as possible on them all.  I also consider any fraudster would have kept the phone, which 
HSBCs records show was a relatively new model, first to use for any further financial gain 
through apps etc, and then to sell it.  Deleting an app, either completely or by removal from 
the home screen, wouldnt benefit a fraudster -  and then somehow finding a way of 
deliberately returning an expensive, new model, phone certainly isnt typical fraudster 
behaviour. 
Turning to the PIN, Mr G didnt provide a plausible explanation for how any third party 
fraudster could have obtained this. I dont consider that any fraudster could have obtained 
this by seeing Mr G entering this at his previous HSBC transaction, which had been some 
hours earlier. Mr G suggested someone might have seen him enter the PIN for his non-
HSBC card, which wasnt stolen. I dont have any details of transactions on that non-HSBC 
card, but this doesnt make sense either. I cant see that a fraudster would have seen Mr G 
enter a PIN for another card  but then leave that card in Mr Gs wallet and steal the HSBC 
ones instead.
There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so its not likely that a third party 
fraudster could have guessed the correct one. The records show there were no failed PIN 
attempts. There were also no failed transaction attempts when the card had been stopped  
and a third party fraudster wouldnt have known when to stop because they wouldnt be able 
to get any more.
Mr G also commented that HSBC only refunded the lower value contactless payments, 
which had totalled around £50, and not the higher value ones. But in view of the lack of clear 
explanation about events, and the other evidence, I think Mr G was fortunate that HSBC 
refunded him for the contactless payments.
Finally, Mr G said that HSBC should have blocked the disputed transactions as fraudulent, 
because there were a lot of cash withdrawals over a short space of time, which wasnt how 
he normally used his account. But as the genuine card, and correct PIN, were used, I think 
its reasonable that HSBCs systems didnt block these withdrawals.
Taking all these factors into account, I think the most likely explanation is that Mr G carried 
out the disputed withdrawals himself. So HSBC does not have to refund him. Alternatively, 
he is still liable if he gave his card and security information to someone else who carried out 
the transactions, because this counts as Mr G having authorised them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman