DRN-2971929
The complaint
Mr D complains about the pension transfer of his preserved benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan. He says he was advised to transfer 
by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (Simpson Kelly) and another financial business which I 
shall call Firm R. He believes that the advice provided was unsuitable which resulted in him 
suffering a significant financial loss. 
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a third party (Representative).
What happened
Mr D was employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) and had been a member of the 
BSPS since September 1978.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of defined benefits pension schemes when their 
employer becomes insolvent. Mr D ceased to be a member of the BSPS in May 2016. The 
benefits he had built up since September 1978 were preserved.
Mr D was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits. He contacted Simpson Kelly for advice. In September 2016, Simpson 
Kelly completed a fact find document to record information about Mr Ds circumstances and 
objectives. It recorded that Mr D was approaching 55 and intended to continue working until 
60. And that he was considering a pension transfer from the BSPS to release immediate tax-
free cash so that he could repay his debts. Simpson Kelly assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as 
lowest medium. Since Simpson Kelly didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr D to another business that did, Firm R. 
In November 2016, Firm R advised Mr D to transfer the value of his preserved benefits of 
£361,687.51 to a personal pension plan. Following the transfer, Simpson Kelly was 
appointed as Mr Ds adviser to provide ongoing servicing and advice in connection with the 
personal pension plan. This was as planned and set out in the suitability report.
The pension transfer advice provided by Firm R is subject to a separate complaint. Firm R is 
no longer authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and was declared in 
default  so unable to meet its liabilities  by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) in 2021. 
This complaint
Mr D appointed the Representative to make a complaint, on his behalf, against Simpson 
Kelly regarding the suitability of the pension transfer. The representatives position can be 
summarised as follows:
In 2016, Mr D had heard a lot of worrying rumours about the security of his preserved 
benefits in the BSPS. Everything he had heard about potential transfers to the PPF 
or a successor scheme to the BSPS, the BSPS2, was very negative. However, the 
reality was that the PPF and BSPS2 would offer only marginally less benefits than 
the BSPS, but Simpson Kelly failed to make Mr D aware of this;
Mr D didnt understand what was happening and was unsure what to do. His main 
objective was to protect the value of his preserved benefits since they formed a 
significant part of his retirement provision. He was an inexperienced and cautious 
investor. He didnt have the knowledge or experience to understand the risks 
associated with a pension transfer or alternative options such as the PPF or BSPS2;
He sought professional advice from Simpson Kelly. They had several meetings. It 
encouraged him to believe that a transfer to the PPF would be a poor outcome and 
that he should transfer to a personal pension plan instead. Simpson Kelly ultimately 
introduced Mr D to Firm R but he never spoke to anyone at that business. Mr D 
believed that Simpson Kelly and firm R were working in unison and that the 
recommendation to transfer was a joint one;
Simpson Kelly verbally advised Mr D to transfer. It seemed to him that Firm Rs role 
was simply to rubber-stamp whatever Simpson Kelly verbally recommended. Mr D 
never spoke to anyone at Firm R and it never checked his understanding of matters. 
If the Financial Ombudsman Service accepts that there isnt any evidence of a 
discussion between Mr D and Firm R, then it must follow that verbal advice was 
given by Simpson Kelly;
Simpson Kelly was required to comply with its regulatory obligations, including 
treating Mr D fairly and to have due regard to his best interests. Mr D had virtually no 
contact with Firm R save for receiving a suitability report recommending the transfer 
to a personal pension plan;
Mr D wasnt provided a transfer analysis report that showed him the investment 
performance required by the recommended personal pension plan to match the 
relinquished BSPS benefits. There were also deficiencies in the illustration and 
suitability report provided by Firm R;
The arrangement between Simpson Kelly and Firm R amounted to a common 
design which imposed joint liability based on a joint venture, as established in the 
Supreme Court case of Fish & Fish Ltd v Sea Shepherd UK and others [2015] UKSC 
10  in the Representatives opinion, this means that Simpson Kelly is jointly liable 
for any financial loss Mr D has suffered as a result of the pension transfer;
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance manual (PERG) clearly anticipates that advice upon 
which clients will rely will be given verbally. So it isnt necessary for the advice to be 
written down and it doesnt have to include a recommendation. Influential comments 
and value judgments amount to advice, as made clear by the definition of advice in 
PERG 8.28. Simpson Kellys discussions with Mr D were highly influential in leading 
him to agree to the pension transfer before it introduced him to Firm R; 
The FCA carried out supervisory and enforcement work during 2017 which resulted 
in Firm R voluntarily accepting restrictions on its permission to give pension transfer 
advice. This indicated that there were regulatory concerns about the quality of the 
advice provided by Firm R which ultimately led to it entering voluntary liquidation;
There was a clear joint venture between Simpson Kelly and Firm R, and so Mr Ds complaint shouldnt be assessed in isolation on an individual basis. Rather, it should 
be assessed in the context of the joint enterprise between Simpson Kelly and Firm R;
Following the pension transfer, Simpson Kelly provided ongoing advice to Mr D, 
therefore providing a clear financial interest in the form of ongoing income for 
Simpson Kelly. This put it in a position of conflict which it failed to manage 
appropriately in accordance with Principle 8 of the FCAs Principles for Business;
The Financial Ombudsman Service has previously upheld decisions against 
introducers in similar cases and so the same outcome should apply to Mr Ds 
complaint; and
Both Simpson Kelly and Firm R knew, or shouldve known, that they were not acting 
in Mr Ds best interests by arranging a pension transfer out of the BSPS, in breach of 
numerous FCA Principles, Rules and Guidance  these include COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 
4.2.1R, COBS 9.2.1(2)R, COBS 9.2.2R, COBS 19.1.2R, COBS 19.1.6G, Principle 6 
and Principle 8; 
To put things right, the Representative requested that Simpson Kelly calculate and pay any 
redress due to Mr D on the basis that he had maintained his preserved benefits in the BSPS 
and opted for the BSPS2 when that option became available.
Simpson Kellys response to Mr Ds complaint 
Simpson Kelly didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Its position can be summarised as follows:
It said that it didnt advise Mr D to transfer the value of his preserved benefits in the 
BSPS to a personal pension plan. Rather, it was Firm R that advised Mr D to 
transfer;
Its role in the transaction was merely as an introducer to Firm R. It did some basic 
fact finding to establish Mr Ds circumstances and objectives which revealed that he 
was interested in transferring the value of his preserved benefits to release 
immediate tax-free cash. Since it didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr D to Firm R which ultimately advised 
him to transfer; and
Following the transfer, Mr D chose to receive ongoing servicing and advice provided 
by Simpson Kelly which it did and continues to do so.
Simpson Kelly suggested that the Representative should direct Mr Ds complaint about the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice to Firm R.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, that 
there wasnt any evidence a joint venture or common design existed between Simpson Kelly 
and Firm R. Rather, the evidence showed that Simpson Kelly introduced Mr D to Firm R and 
it then provided the pension transfer advice complained about. Therefore, he concluded that                 
Firm R was responsible for the suitability of the advice and any financial loss flowing from it.
The Representatives response to our investigators findingsThe Representative didnt accept our investigators findings. It requested that this complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. It didnt provide any additional comments 
or evidence for the ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Scope of this final decision 
My understanding of the Representatives position is that a joint venture existed between 
Simpson Kelly and Firm R to carry out a single business enterprise to facilitate pension 
transfers out of the BSPS for profit  and that both businesses therefore remain jointly liable 
for any financial loss Mr D may have suffered. It says that the joint venture primarily involved 
Simpson Kelly verbally advising Mr D to transfer out of the BSPS before introducing him to 
Firm R to formally recommend and then facilitate the pension transfer to a new personal 
pension plan.
I think its important to clarify that, under this final decision, I wont be considering the acts or 
omissions of Firm R in its dealings with Mr D because this complaint is set up against 
Simpson Kelly rather than Firm R. This service isnt a regulator. We dont have the power to 
punish, sanction or fine; the supervision of financial businesses falls to the FCA. Our role is 
to decide individual complaints. Any suspicion on the part of the Representative relating to 
systemic or repeated abuse of the financial advice framework, or disregard for the letter 
and/or the spirit of the regulatory requirements for providing advice, or indeed collusion 
between businesses for the purpose of taking advantage of consumers, should be referred 
to the FCA. I therefore wont be considering the joint venture and joint liability aspects of the 
complaint made by the representative.
Further, while I appreciate the comment relating to the case law, and whilst I must have 
regard for the law, the decision I come to on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint may be different to what a court would decide. So, in 
deciding this complaint, Ill only look at the individual facts and merits applicable to Mr Ds 
personal dealings with Simpson Kelly. This means that I wont be taking into account 
decisions made by this service on other complaints.
Did Simpson Kelly advise Mr D to transfer?
Having considered the available evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for much the same reasons. I dont intend to repeat everything he said here 
but wish to make the following points. 
The testimonies provided by Mr D and Simpson Kelly are completely different. Mr Ds 
position is that Simpson Kelly played a key role in the pension transfer process because it 
verbally told him to transfer before introducing him to Firm R. But Simpson Kelly disputes 
this and says that it didnt advise Mr D about the merits or otherwise of transferring because 
it didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to do so  which is why it introduced him to Firm R. It says its role in the transaction was merely as an introducer to Firm R. It said 
that, following the pension transfer, Mr D chose to receive ongoing servicing and advice 
provided by Simpson Kelly which it did and continues to do so. But it considers this to be 
separate from the pension transfer advice provided by Firm R.
Wheres theres conflicting testimonies like this, I think its appropriate to place more weight 
on the contemporaneous documentary evidence in reaching my decision. In this case, the 
documentary evidence shows that Simpson Kelly did some basic fact finding before 
introducing Mr D to Firm R to provide pension transfer advice.  
I havent seen any evidence that Simpson Kelly advised Mr D to transfer. But the 
Representative said that Simpson Kelly verbally told Mr D to transfer. It says that Simpson 
Kelly didnt record its advice including influential comments and value judgements in writing 
but was nonetheless very close to Firm Rs formal recommendation. I dont think the 
absence of notes of the discussions between Simpson Kelly and Mr D necessarily means 
that it advised him to transfer.
On balance, and based on what Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to conclude that Simpson Kelly advised Mr D to transfer. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, 
Simpson Kelly didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on pension 
transfers which is why it introduced Mr D to Firm R. And secondly, the evidence shows that 
Firm R issued a suitability report in November 2016 addressed to Mr D recommending that 
he transfer. The opening paragraph to the suitability report stated:
Further to your meeting with your advisor [Simpson Kelly], you have given him the 
permission to pass on all the relevant information to enable me to deal with your 
pension transfer. You understand that [Simpson Kelly] does not have the necessary 
FCA permission to assist you with your pension transfer.
Firm R recommended the personal pension plan provider and initial underlying investment 
selection. Theres no evidence that Simpson Kelly was involved in the investment decision.
Following the transfer, Simpson Kelly was appointed as Mr Ds adviser to provide ongoing 
servicing and advice in connection with the personal pension plan. This was as planned and 
set out in the suitability report. But this doesnt mean Simpson Kelly was responsible for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm R. 
Its my decision that it was only Firm R that provided the personal recommendation to Mr D 
to transfer  and so its that business which remains solely responsible for the suitability of 
the pension transfer advice and any financial loss flowing from it. 
I acknowledge the possibility of discussions having taken place between Simpson Kelly and 
Mr D prior to the referral to Firm R which might have given him the impression that 
transferring would be in his best interests. But it was Firm R which was responsible for the 
personal recommendation. And I think its more likely than not, or at least to be reasonably 
expected, that Mr D wouldve placed greater weight on a written recommendation from                   
Firm R in November 2016, which would, or at least should, have taken into account his 
circumstances and objectives, than he would in any prior discussions with Simpson Kelly 
about his options.
Conclusion 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cannot see that Simpson Kelly breached any FCA 
Principles, Rules or Guidance, as asserted by the Representative. Because of this, Idont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Simpson Kelly to compensate Mr D for any financial loss hes suffered as a result of the 
pension transfer  or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
As noted in the background above, Firm R was declared in default by the FSCS in 2021. 
Therefore, should the Representative wish to pursue a claim for compensation in respect of 
the pension transfer advice provided by Firm R, it should contact the FSCS if it hasnt 
already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman