DRN-3997921
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays and the standard of service he received from British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas), under his home emergency policy, which resulted in 
significant water damage to his home.
What happened
Mr C says he contacted British Gas in April 2021 to make a claim regarding his boiler. 
However, no-one attended until November. When an engineer attended, he says he didnt fix 
the fault and a second engineer had to attend to resolve the problem. Mr C says the boiler 
leaked into the cavity wall it was fixed to. He says the wall has had to be replaced due to the 
damage the water leak caused. Mr C wants British Gas to pay for the repairs, but it refused. 
In its complaint response British Gas says it received a contact from Mr C in October 2021. 
He was having difficulty arranging an appointment over the phone. It says he was advised 
he should wait for an agent to become available or that he could make an appointment using 
his online account. British Gas says its engineers fixed a fault in November but received no 
further contact from Mr C until June 2022 when he reported water damage to his home. 
British Gas says a field manager visited Mr Cs home. He found the property was undergoing 
extensive renovation work and the area surrounding the boiler had been knocked back to 
bare brick. The manager reported it wasnt possible to determine how any damage had been 
caused. But if there had been a leak present since April 2021 this wouldve been observable 
when the engineers attended in November. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She says there was no evidence Mr C contacted British Gas in 
April 2021. His first contact was reported in October, which was when a leak was mentioned. 
She didnt think British Gas was responsible for any damage that might have resulted from 
this, as it repaired the boiler in a reasonable timeframe after Mr C made contact. 
Our investigator says there is no evidence to show what the cause of the damage was to Mr 
Cs property or when this occurred. So, she didnt think British Gas needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
British Gas says Mr C made contact in June 2021. This was regarding his service agreement 
and a dispute about the excess charge on his policy. From the records  the next contact 
was in October when Mr C said he was experiencing difficulties getting through by phone to 
make a repair appointment. The note says he thought the call queues were too long and 
wanted the excess charge waiving for his next appointment. The record says the agent told 
Mr C he would need to wait on the call until an adviser was free. Alternatively, he could 
make an appointment online. The agent didnt agree to waive the excess charge.
British Gas has supplied records from its engineer visits. I can see a visit took place on 1 
November 2021. The note from this visit refers to seals on flow pipe. British Gas says this 
means the overflow pipe seals were replaced on this visit. I understand that this didnt 
resolve the leak that was found. So, a further visit was arranged a week later. The records 
say this appointment was too late for Mr C, so the visit didnt go ahead. 
The following day an engineer returned. The records from this visit say, new flow pipe and 
sensor required, turned off ordered for Friday. Three days later an engineer attended to 
replace the flow pipe and sensors, a leak was resolved, and the pressure sensor was also 
replaced.   
I acknowledge Mr Cs comments that he was in contact with British Gas from April 2021. But 
he hasnt provided any information to support this. From the evidence available the leak 
wasnt brought to British Gass attention until October. An engineers appointment was then 
arranged to take place in three weeks time. 
Ive read the comments provided by the field manager who visited Mr C at his home seven 
months after British Gass engineer last visited. Ive also considered in detail the photos Mr 
C has supplied. These show his boiler next to a partial wall that has been taken back to the 
brickwork. In the photos the property appears to be undergoing renovation works over a 
larger area than just the vicinity of the boiler. 
Its not clear from the photos what, if any, damage was caused by a leak emanating from the 
boiler. The photos support what British Gas has said about the property undergoing 
extensive renovation work. And that this made it impossible to verify Mr Cs claim that 
damage had been caused by a leak it hadnt fixed quickly enough.    
Having considered all of this I dont think British Gas treated Mr C unfairly. I cant see that it 
delayed attending to his boiler, or that its responsible for damage resulting from a leak. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman