DRN-3997365
The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt afford to
repay. Mr M says at the time the facility was approved he had a lot of other debt including an
overdraft.
What happened
Mr M approached Drafty for a running credit facility in October 2018. Mr M was given a
facility with a £300 credit limit. The limit was increased on two occasions taking the facility
limit to £440 by March 2019. Drafty has confirmed the facility was fully repaid and closed by
April 2021.
Mr M was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr M was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter it explained the information it gathered from Mr M before it
approved the facility which included carrying out an income and expenditure assessment.
Drafty concluded Mr M was likely to be able to afford his credit facility. Drafty didnt uphold
the complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr M was likely
to be able to afford the payment amounts as outlined in the hypothetical payment schedule
which is detailed in Mr Ms credit agreement. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have
initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure
the facility was affordable at the outset, Drafty also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ms use
of the facility. Having reviewed, the way Mr M borrowed and repaid the facility, she thought
by 21 January 2020 the facility had become unsustainable for him. Knowing this, in the
adjudicators view Drafty shouldve stepped in and offered assistance to Mr M.
The adjudicator recommended Drafty refund all interest, fees and charges added to the
facility after 21 January 2020. She also asked Drafty to pay 8% simple interest on the refund
amount.
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. Drafty did agree to refund the
interest fees and charges applied to new drawdowns from 21 January 2020. After applying
8% simple interest and deducting tax the refund calculated at the time the offer was made
was £39.94. Drafty also agreed to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms
credit file about this facility from 21 January 2020. However, Drafty said.
 weve looked carefully at the points you have made in your findings. While we are
aligned with your view about deciding the upheld date as 21st January 2020, we take
a different view on the way you have requested the calculations to be done.
Since you have decided 21st January 2020 as the upheld date our understanding is
that any amount given to the customer before this date was affordable and after this
date is unaffordable
But Drafty made the following offer to resolve the complaint.
we would like to confirm that we agree to refund the interest and charges paid
towards all the draw downs from 21st January 2020, amounting to £39.94 (£35.83 for
Interest paid, £5.14 for 8% annual interest, minus £1.03 for 20% mandatory tax
withholding in line with HMRC regulations). Additionally, we will remove any adverse
payment information recorded on Mr. M [full name removed]s credit file from 21st
January 2020.
The offer was put to Mr M, but he rejected it. As no agreement had been reached, the case
was passed to me for a decision.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint in part and why I though the settlement Drafty had proposed was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. A copy of provisional findings follows this 
in italics as well as smaller font and it forms part of this final decision.
Both Mr M and Drafty were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 1 March 2023. 
Drafty responded and agreed with the proposed redress and provided up to date redress 
calculations. 
Mr M hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
As the deadline has passed, and no new information has been provided I see no reason to 
delay the issuing of the final decision.
 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
As explained, Mr M was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand
whether Mr M would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonableperiod of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ms repayment record for any sign that he
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it
offered some redress from this time  21 January 2020. And while, Mr M rejected the
settlement offer by Drafty, he didnt disagree that this is the point where the complaint ought
to be upheld.
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from
21 January 2020. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused
on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
Both the adjudicator and Drafty have agreed, that Mr Ms borrowing history showed he was
potentially reliant on the facility and so any further advances of credit were likely to increase
his overall indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. So, there
doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when Drafty ought reasonably to have realised that it
shouldnt have allowed Mr M to make any further drawdowns on his facility.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for
Mr M while explaining why I disagree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest
charged after the 21 January 2020 needs to be refunded.
Drafty has accepted, that the pattern of borrowing on the facility by January 2020
demonstrated that Mr M shouldnt have been allowed to drawdown any further funds. So,
I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have
taken in relation to any help and support it needed to offer Mr M.
Our adjudicator thought that Drafty needed to refund all interest charged on the facility 
including any on the amount Mr M had previously drawn down and which theres no dispute
were affordable, prior to January 2020.
However, Id only direct Drafty to put things right in this way if I was satisfied that it was
aware, or ought to have realised that Mr Ms position was so precarious that it ought to have
realised that not only was it the case Mr M couldnt afford any further borrowing, but that he
was also in a position where he couldnt repay what he already owed. So, Drafty ought
reasonably to have withdrawn the facility completely. But I dont have anything from Mr M
which demonstrates to me that he was in such a precarious position.
Furthermore, looking at Mr Ms repayment record, I have considered that Mr M only took one
further drawdown (albeit Drafty werent to know that at the time). And there were times such
as between September and November 2019 and after June 2020 where Mr M didnt take
any new drawdowns on the facility. Given this, I think it is difficult to argue that it was clearly
demonstrable that Mr M was drawing further funds to cover the financial hole that was being
created by making his minimum payments.
Draftys proposed redress, as outlined in response to the adjudicator would lead to a refund
of interest on new drawdowns. And bearing in mind the circumstances here, in particular the
lack of evidence from Mr M indicating that he wasnt in a position to repay the funds hed
already drawn down as well as his borrowing pattern, I consider that refund to be
reasonable. So, I am intending to ask Drafty to pay that redress in resolution of the
complaint.
Therefore, based on what Ive seen, including reviewing the drawdown history, I think
Draftys offer to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable given it considers the facility
was unsustainable for Mr M from the given date and has proposed a way to enable any new
drawdowns to be, in effect, interest free.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been received from either Mr M or his representative and Drafty 
has agreed with the proposed outcome, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
I previously made, and I still think Drafty was wrong to have applied interest on new 
drawdowns from 21 January 2020, as Drafty already agreed the facility was unsustainable 
for Mr M.
In response to the provisional decision, Drafty provided new calculations for the refund due 
to Mr M  it explained that the refund due to Mr M (which included 8% simple interest as well 
as a tax deduction) would amount to £52.63.
It also said that it would remove any adverse credit file data recorded from 
21 January 2020. 
Finally, it said that the refund will be applied to Mr Ms bank account ending *7469  this is 
likely the account that payments were taken from when Mr M held his facility. Should Mr M 
like to receive the funds into a different account he will need to contact Drafty. 
For completeness, Ive outlined below what Drafty has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr M.
 
Putting things right
To put things right Drafty needs to do the following, which is what it has already agreed to
do:
Refund interest, fees and charges that Mr M paid on new drawdowns from
21 January 2020;
Then add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of
settlement*;
remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Ms credit file from
21 January 2020.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman