DRN-4021148
The complaint
This complaints about a capital repayment mortgage Mrs and Mr C hold with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. I initially identified three broad headings of the complaint, which are:
The mortgage was mis-sold in 2007 because it included a linked mortgage current 
account (MCA) with overdraft facility that should not have been provided due to their 
home being a shared ownership property.
Barclays didnt carry out a promise made in 2016 to de-activate the re-balancing 
feature of the MCA that meant the overdraft facility limit automatically increased as the 
capital balance on the main mortgage reduced each month. 
Barclays did finally de-activate the re-balancing feature on the MCA in 2022, but then 
provided invalid contact details for Mrs and Mr C to apply to merge the MCA balance into 
the main mortgage.
In fact, theres another aspect of the complaint; that is, that when Mrs and Mr C recently 
asked Barclays to merge the MCA into the main mortgage, it told them they werent eligible.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them 
here.
By way of a provisional decision dated 13 February 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
In a decision issued in January 2023, I confirmed that we could only consider the 
following aspects of the complaint on their merits.
Barclayss admitted failure to de-activate the re-balancing feature of Mrs and Mr Cs 
MCA as promised in 2016; and whether the contact information given in Barclays 
final response of March 2022 was incorrect and therefore hindered Mrs and Mr C 
attempts to apply to merge the MCA into the mortgage.
What Ive provisionally concluded - and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the 
complaint. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their 
internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take 
either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the first part of the complaint, I dont have to decide fault; its common ground that 
Barclays promised to switch off re-balancing in 2016, and then didnt. What I do have 
to decide is whether and to what extent Mrs and Mr C have suffered detriment as a 
result. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded they had, but Mr C argues that the failure to 
remove re-balancing has allowed the debt to continue growing through the additional 
of monthly interest. However, that would still have happened even if re-balancing had 
been switched off. Interest is charged on an outstanding debt as a basic function of 
the lending terms, so Mrs and Mr Cs outstanding balance was always going to 
continue rising with the addition of interest each month, unless they took steps to 
bring the debt down, for example by paying more than the interest into the MCA each 
month. The re-balancing feature doesnt affect how much the outstanding balance is; 
it just affects how much the outstanding balance is allowed to be. 
Ironically, Mrs and Mr C have benefitted from the re-balancing feature remaining 
active. Its meant the authorised facility limit has continued to go up, which means the 
actual balance has never exceeded the facility limit. If Barclays had switched re-
balancing off, the authorised facility limit would have remained static, but the actual 
balance would still have risen with the addition of monthly interest that was more than 
Mrs and Mr C paid in, and, eventually, the actual balance would have exceeded the 
authorised limit. 
The moment that happened, Barclays could have begun reporting adverse 
information on Mrs and Mr Cs credit file about the account bring overdrawn beyond 
the permitted limit. That would have caused detriment to Mrs and Mr C by adversely 
impacting their credit rating. As things stand, that has been avoided, as have any 
fees or charges Barclays might have imposed for the MCA being over its permitted 
limit, or any steps it might have taken to recover the unauthorised excess.
That brings me to the second part of the complaint; the phone number Barclays 
provided in the March 2022 final response for Mrs and Mr C to apply to merge the 
MCA into the mortgage. I dont know, and wont speculate on, what problems Mrs 
and Mr C experienced when they called the number in the letter. All I can say is that 
the number wasnt invalid; it was the correct number for Barclays Mortgage servicing 
team, which would have been able to direct Mrs and Mr C to the Home Solutions 
Department that deals with MCA merger applications. Its always possible that Mrs 
and Mr Cs experienced when they called the number was less than helpful, but 
thats a different complaint from saying the number was invalid.
I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both did so, 
following which I issued a second provisional decision. The following is an extract from that 
second provisional decision.
Having considered what both parties have said in response, and having reviewed 
the case file as a whole again, there is an additional aspect to the complaint that 
does falls within my remit, but which I havent dealt with. That is, Barclays telling 
Mrs and Mr G during the course of 2021 and 2022 that they wouldnt qualify for a 
merger of the MCA into the main mortgage.
To remedy that that, I am issuing a second provisional decision which addresses that 
further issue and, at the same time, responds to the comments both parties have 
made on the first provisional decision.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and argument s to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill start by reiterating something our investigator told Mrs and Mr C in response to 
their request that the complaint be decided by a different ombudsman. They are 
entitled to have their complaint decided by an ombudsman, but Im afraid theyre not 
entitled to dictate which ombudsman that should be.
Mrs and Mr C havent challenged my finding on the contact details being valid, so 
theres nothing further for me to address on that element of the complaint. Mrs and Mr say the financial product at the heart of the dispute  the MCA  has 
confirmed to have been missold (sic). I suspect what Mrs and Mr C are referring to 
there is Barclays final responses from 2014 and 2016 in which it accepted the MCA 
should not have been provided. But Id remind them that no confirmation of 
mis-selling has emanated from this service. 
My jurisdiction decision on the complaint specifically found that we had no power 
under our rules to consider that aspect of the complaint. On further reflection, theres 
a case to be made for the failure to switch off re-balancing to be deemed outside my 
remit too. Thats because, whilst the omission to do so post-dated the 2016 final 
response, the promise itself formed part of the 2016 final response. On balance, Im 
minded to say that the failure to switch off re-balancing is time-barred, because it 
wasnt referred to us within six months of the 2016 final response. But I will return to 
the subject shortly.
Whilst both parties agree it shouldnt ever have existed, the fact remains that the 
MCA does exist, and Mrs and Mr C have made full use of it, and therefore benefitted 
from the funds the MCA made available for them to spend. The ongoing presence of 
the MCA, and the debt owed on it, are something that needs to be addressed in the 
here and now. 
That ties in neatly with the element of the complaint I omitted from my first provisional 
decision: i.e. Barclays telling Mrs and Mr C theyre not eligible for the MCA to be 
merged into the main mortgage. The delay in switching off re-balancing, whilst 
time-barred in its own right, also ties into the point about whether the MCA should be 
merged into the main mortgage. Thats because, for the reasons I explained in the 
first provisional decision, an MCA that has been used to create an outstanding debt 
needs to have re-balancing active, if it is to operate in the borrowers best interests. 
So I have to consider the impact of the re-balancing issue as an integral part of my 
consideration of the merger issue.
As I understand it, Mrs and Mr C have known since 2016 that they could apply 
formally for a merger, but up to now, havent done so. So theres been no formal 
application for Barclays to assess in accordance with its lending policy, but it has 
indicated they might not be eligible. It seems likely that affordability is an area for 
concern on Barclays part. Thats not inherently unreasonable. If the MCA debt is 
merged into the main mortgage, it has to be repaid as part of the main mortgage, so 
Barclays needs to be satisfied Mrs and Mr C can afford the higher monthly 
instalments that would result. 
Barclays cant make a proper judgement until a full application is made, but I suspect 
what may be concerning to the business on affordability is that Mrs and Mr C havent 
made any substantive payments into the MCA to reduce the balance since they first 
complained about it. So it would be wrong of Barclays to simply impose higher 
monthly payments on Mrs and Mr C, and equally wrong of me to force it to do so.
What I think needs to happen here is for lender and borrowers to get together, 
without any recrimination over what has gone before, and hold a meaningful dialogue 
about whether a merger of the MCA into the mortgage is feasible, affordable and 
genuinely in Mrs and Mr Cs best interests. To be clear, Barclays is not obliged to 
agree to it; what it is obliged to do is consider the request fairly in accordance with its 
lending policy and regulatory obligations under the Mortgage and Home Finance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). In the event such a process takes place, and results in a merger of the MCA into the 
mortgage being agreed, then the MCA will cease to exist and the question of 
re-balancing becomes moot. But if a merger of the MCA isnt agreed, then to be clear 
the re-balancing feature will need to be re-activated. I appreciate that might not sit 
well with Mrs and Mr C, but its essential to the correct operation of the MCA. 
To help them understand why, Ill expand on something I set out in the first 
provisional decision. Re-balancing isnt the reason the MCA balance has risen; that 
happened because Mrs and Mr C have used the facility to create a debt, which has 
then attracted interest, and they havent paid the debt down to any significant degree. 
All re-balancing has done is keep the actual debt balance below the authorised limit, 
thus protecting Mrs and Mr C from the threat of adverse credit file reporting and 
possible debt recovery action.
Again, both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further 
comments, and that time has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having so, I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. However, I will address 
some of Mrs and Mr Cs further comments.
Mrs and Mr C say that but for the re-balancing function, theyd have been prompted to act 
sooner than they did. As it was, the bank wrote in 2014 that there was no expectation of 
them increasing their payments to cover the spending on the MCA. Im not sure 
Mrs and Mr C should have needed to receive warnings that they were expected to repay the 
MCA balance, before taking action to keep the debt at a manageable level. At any time in 
the nine years since, they could have chosen to pay the balance down of their own volition, if 
only to reduce the accrual of interest and avoid the debt reaching the level they now say is 
proving difficult to address. 
On that latter point, Mrs and Mr C dispute having avoided the detriment of adverse credit 
reporting due to the re-balancing function, in that adverse data has been reported since 
re-balancing was switched off. Rather than challenging my finding on why re-balancing is 
essential to the MCA, this comment confirms it. 
Mrs and Mr C dispute having made full use of the MCA facility; theyve not borrowed afresh 
in three years. Rather, they say Barclays has made full use of the facility to charge 
exorbitant interest. But interest is the price of using credit, and whilst it may be three years 
since Mrs and Mr C used their MCA, its been nine years since they first found out they 
should not have been given it to use in the first place. That lapse of time is the reason I have 
no jurisdiction to comment on the mis-selling element of the complaint. As for the rate at 
which interest is charged on the MCA, and whether and how that was set out in the contract, 
Mrs and Mr C would need to raise that as a new complaint with Barclays and give it the 
opportunity to issue a final response before referring it to this service.
Im pleased to learn that the process of applying to restructure the MCA into the main 
mortgage is underway. Mrs and Mr C says affordability should not be a factor in the merger 
consideration because the debt already exists. Its not for me to pre-empt the outcome of the 
process they have said is underway, but Ive already explained why affordability is a relevant 
factor, and the further comments from Mrs and Mr C dont change anything in that regard. 
The debt may already exist, but up to now, a contractual obligation to make monthly payments to reduce it has not existed. That obligation will exist if the MCA is merged into the 
main mortgage, and Barclays needs to be satisfied Mrs and Mr C can afford to meet that 
obligation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not make any order or award against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
This is partly because of the restrictions our jurisdiction places on what parts of 
Mrs and Mr Cs complaint I can consider the merits of, but also because their complaint 
regarding the merger of the MCA balance into the mortgage is currently a complaint about a 
hypothetical situation. Until that situation becomes a reality, due to Mrs and Mr C making an 
application and Barclays accepting or rejecting it, there isnt a complaint for me to consider 
the merits of.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to accept or reject 
my decision before 9 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman