DRN-3576366
The complaint
Mr G complains QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has unfairly declined a claim hes made on his 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
I have previously issued two provisional decisions on this matter dated 12 January 2021 and 
12 May 2021. The details of this complaint are well known to the parties so Ive supplied a 
summary here of the background and what I said in my provisional decisions.
Mr G has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by QIC. His garage was damaged 
by subsidence and he claimed on his policy. 
After some investigation, QIC declined the claim as it said the evidence showed the 
damage pre-dated inception of the policy and it thought the subsidence was likely as 
a result of alterations to Mr Gs driveway and this was excluded under the policy.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and told QIC to reassess the claim against the 
remaining terms of the policy and pay Mr G £150. QIC disagreed with this and asked 
for an Ombudsmans decision.
In my first provisional decision I said QIC had fairly applied the exclusion. I didnt 
need to comment on whether the damage was pre-existing as Id already concluded 
QIC acted fairly when it declined the claim.
Unhappy with this conclusion, Mr G arranged for his own expert report which 
concluded the damage was most likely caused by vegetation to the right of the 
garage. It also said there was evidence to show the damage didnt pre-date 
inception. But it said further investigation would be required to underline the cause.
Following this, I issued a second provisional decision. I concluded there wasnt 
enough evidence to say it was more likely the damage pre-dated policy inception so I 
didnt think QIC acted fairly when it declined the claim for this reason. While Mr Gs 
report called into question QICs findings, I didnt think it was sufficiently certain for 
me to safely conclude which of the causes was most likely.  
QIC had suggested it could appoint an independent expert to assess the damage 
and its likely cause. In my decision, I said I thought this was a reasonable step in the 
circumstances.
Following this, QIC instructed an independent expert and provided this Service a copy of the 
report which our Investigator also shared with Mr G.
The report concluded:
There was no visible disturbance by tree roots on the paved drive and paving in the 
rear garden so it was difficult to attribute the level of movement seen to root 
disturbance. 
Based on the visual inspection, the expert was confidently of the opinion the root 
cause was the poor garage roof and surface water drainage where a rainwater pipe 
at the rear discharges directly into the ground. This had caused the slab to be 
undermined by the draining forward and washing away of the sub-base the slabs 
constructed on.
QIC made no further comment on the report. Mr G said he still had concerns about the 
experts suitability and the report was inconclusive and required further investigation such as 
trial holes and soil samples to establish ground conditions and root encroachment.  
I provided the parties with an update explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint but 
received no further comment from either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thoroughly read and considered the report provided by the independent expert 
and remain satisfied with his credentials. The report is detailed and clearly explains 
the experts findings and conclusions, supported by photographic evidence and 
narrative and, overall, I find it persuasive. The report rules out root disturbance as 
theres none visible to the drive or rear paving. 
It clearly identifies the guttering at the rear of the garage discharges via a rainwater 
pipe which isnt connected to a soakaway and instead discharges directly onto the 
ground around the affected concrete slab. The slab is moving away from the building 
which it says indicates the sub base beneath the concrete slab has moved, likely due 
to the discharge of rainwater at the rear of the garage. This has caused the slab to be 
undermined by the water draining forwards and washing away the sub base the slab 
is constructed on.
I find this explanation, persuasive and compelling and Im satisfied this drainage 
issue is more likely than not the cause of the movement.
QIC declined the claim for two reasons. The first was that the damage pre-dated 
policy inception and I explained in my provisional decision of 12 May 2022 why I 
disagreed with this and considered this reason for decline to be unfair. My view on 
this remains unchanged.
The second was its view the alterations to the driveway had likely caused the 
subsidence and the claim was therefore excluded under the policy terms.
Im satisfied the report by the independent expert doesnt support this view and the 
expert is confident its been caused by something unrelated to this decline reason - 
the drainage issue. In short, I now have two expert reports that dont support QICs 
position. 
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I will be upholding Mr Gs complaint as Im not 
persuaded it declined the claim fairly based on the reasons it gave. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
Reassess the claim in its entirety on the basis of the drainage issue being the likely 
causal factor, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Let Mr G know the outcome and provide him with its detailed proposals for dealing 
with the subsidence and damage  keeping in mind the recommendations in the 
report  within 28 days of this Service confirming Mr G has accepted my final 
decision.
Reimburse Mr G the cost of the expert report he had undertaken once he provides it 
with supporting evidence of the cost he paid.
Pay Mr G £150 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced due to the unfair 
decline of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman