DRN-3300994
The complaint
Mr S complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has handled his subsidence 
claim poorly.
Mr S has had a representative for the complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions 
of the representative as being those of Mr S. Similarly in places Ive referred to the 
actions of its contractors as being those of RSA.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S made a subsidence claim on his RSA buildings insurance policy. 
He reported damage to his property allowing rainwater in. He thought it might be caused by 
the roots of local trees. RSA appointed a contractor to assess the property for subsidence.
In October 2020 Mr S complained about how the claim was progressing. He was 
concerned as repairs hadnt begun. In response RSA said it would need to monitor the 
property for movement for up to 12 months. It explained it needed the data to gain the 
local authoritys approval to remove the offending trees. These were removed in 
December 2020.
Mr S wasnt satisfied so referred his complaint to this service. In November 2021 our 
investigator considered it. She said RSA hadnt had an opportunity to fully consider some 
of Mr S more recent complaint points. These included the breadth of the repairs RSA had 
agreed to cover. The investigator felt it was reasonable to allow RSA time to consider its 
response to these points.
The investigator went on to say RSA had made a reasonable decision to undertake only 
temporary repairs until it was confirmed there was no ongoing subsidence. She said the 
insurer had been responsible for some unnecessary delay in the progress of the claim. So 
she recommended it pay Mr S £200 compensation in recognition. RSA agreed to the 
assessment, but Mr S didnt.
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I explained why I intended to require RSA to 
arrange for Mr S propertys drains to inspected for damage, reimburse the cost of his 
surveyor report and pay him £800 compensation. Those reasons form part of this final 
decision, so Ive copied them in below. 
I also invited Mr S and RSA to provide any further comments or information they would 
like me to consider before I issue a final decision. RSA agreed to take the actions I set out 
above. It provided a response to a further issue regarding the possible reimbursement of 
some repair costs paid by Mr S. He provided a range of comments. Ive addressed these 
responses, where I feel it necessary, below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece 
of evidence Mr S or RSAs provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the complaint. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided. RSAs now had time to respond to Mr S latest 
complaint points. So Ive considered those I feel are most significant.
Central to Mr S complaint is his feeling that RSAs failed to progress the claim in a 
timely way. The claim is still ongoing, with him waiting for agreed repairs to take 
place. For reasons of practicality Ive considered whats happened with the claim up 
to the current date.
In October 2021 RSA visited Mr S property. This was in response to a report 
produced by Mr S own surveyor in June 2021. He felt the relevant required works 
to be more extensive than those specified by RSAs contractor. After some time 
RSA produced an amended schedule of work. However, as I understand it some 
works are still disputed.
Mr S surveyor found concrete paved areas had considerable cracking. He 
recommended these be removed and replaced. However, RSAs refused to 
consider these areas as part of the claim. It feels cracking to a concrete path and a 
driveway to be longstanding  unrelated to the subsidence issue. It says the 
concrete has been laid on soil at shallow depth. In its opinion cracking has occurred 
through gradual deterioration and thermal movement.
Ive only been provided with limited information on this issue. So I will reconsider 
my position if either Mr S or RSA provide anything further. But based on what I do 
have I dont intend to require RSA to repair the path and driveway. From photos 
they do seem to be of considerable age. Its difficult to tell from photos but the 
cracks do look like they are longstanding as RSA say. So Im currently more 
persuaded by RSAs argument that this damage is most likely gradual rather than 
subsidence related.
Mr S is concerned drains in his garden have been damaged by tree roots. His 
surveyors report recommends the drains are inspected to ensure the integrity of 
the clay pipes. The report states theres a high chance they have been affected by 
the roots and subsidence of the ground around them.
RSAs refused to consider the drains as part of the claim. However, it seems to 
have understood Mr S surveyor to be claiming that damaged drains are the cause 
of the wiser subsidence. That appears to be a misunderstanding. Instead the 
surveyor feels the drains may have been damaged themselves either directly by 
the roots or through subsidence of the surrounding ground.
It does seem possible to me that clay pipes might be damaged by root growth or 
subsidence. So I intend to require RSA to arrange to have the drains inspected for 
any damage. If any is found it should consider it against the full range of perils 
Mr S policy covers him against.Theres unfortunately an ongoing problem with regrowth, into Mr S, garden from 
the roots of the removed trees. I accept this is a serious frustration and 
inconvenience for him. However, I dont intend to require RSA to remove the roots 
or regrowth. The trees were owned by the local authority. It seems to be taking 
action to remove the regrowth at least. And Ive not been provided with anything to 
show the regrowth itself is causing further subsidence through clay shrinkage. 
Again I will reconsider my position on this if Im provided with any further 
information.
Mr S has raised concern that RSA hasnt provided enough detail, including 
measurements, on the extent of intended repair works to his property. With the 
intention of avoiding any
further delay to the progress of repairs Im not going to get involved in the technical 
detail
and specifics. I think a more practical approach will be for RSA to get on with the 
planned works as soon as possible. If following completion Mr S isnt satisfied, he 
will be able to raise a further complaint.
In December 2021 Mr S paid his own contractor £2,175 to replace three fibre glass 
roofs. He says he arranged this as he felt water ingress should be dealt with 
promptly  and he had no confidence RSA would do so in a timely manner.
Its difficult for me to say, based on the information I have, that RSA should 
reimburse him those funds. I dont have much detail of the work, beyond a short 
description in the invoice. Its not clear if the damage to the roofs was caused by 
subsidence. I havent been provided with enough to say it was. I cant see that the 
work was proposed in Mr S surveyors June 2021 schedule of works. Neither 
have I seen clear reference to the issue in RSAs records.
In the interests of progressing this complaint and claim I request that, in response 
to this provisional decision, Mr S and RSA provide further information on the work, 
reasons for it and any thoughts they have on the fairness of RSA covering its cost. 
Ill then decide on the issue.
Mr S own survey cost him £648. The report resulted in additional work, including 
the garage foundations, being included in the claim. So it will be fair and reasonable 
for RSA to reimburse him that cost. It should add simple interest at 8% to reflect 
Mr S being without those funds since August 2021.
Mr S has been frustrated by the pace of the claim. Unfortunately subsidence 
claims by their nature are often slow moving. Monitoring of movement, as required 
in this case, usually takes many months. Necessary involvement of third parties, 
like Mr S local authority, can further slow progress. In this case, unfortunately, 
Covid-19 restrictions also slowed matters down. RSA seems to have progressed 
the claim reasonably up until removal of the trees in December 2020. I agree that it 
wouldnt have been sensible to begin permanent repairs whilst the trees were still 
in place. And I can see that RSA undertook some temporary repairs before the 
trees were removed.
But RSAs failed to move the claim on in a reasonable manner since the removal 
of the trees. Its contractor drew up an initial schedule of works in early 2021. I 
accept Mr S challenged the schedule in June 2021, feeling and showing it to be 
inadequate. But that doesnt explain why more than a year later hes still waiting 
for the agreed repairs to begin.RSA made a site visit in October 2021. It agreed to some additional repairs, 
including replacement of garage foundations. Despite knowing that work would 
require a structural engineer RSA took until July 2022 to appoint one. It still 
hasnt started work on any of the other agreed repairs.
RSAs provided an explanation for the delay in appointing an engineer, saying 
theres an industry wide shortage. Im not persuaded this accounts for a nine-
month delay. RSA does accept it hasnt been proactive with the claim during this 
period. It also agrees the non- garage related work could have started earlier.
In my opinion RSAs handling of the claim since early 2021 has been very poor. Its 
caused long-term unnecessary delay. During this period Mr S says its 
communication with him has been very frustrating, failing to contact him or respond 
to his enquiries. Considering its failure to progress the claim Im inclined to believe 
him.
Mr S reports the long and unnecessary delay in the claim and lack of communication 
causing him significant frustration, distress and inconvenience. His home has been 
left in a state of disrepair much longer than it should have been. Mr S and his wife 
are elderly and in poor health. So I think its likely the impact on him has been 
particularly significant. So I intend to require RSA to pay him £800 compensation to 
recognise the impact of its mistakes during the claim so far.
As I say RSAs now appointed an engineer. It says its now improved oversight of 
the claim and will provided Mr S with regular updates. I also expect it to complete 
the repairs as soon as possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither RSA nor Mr S disagreed with my proposal that it arrange for the drains to be 
inspected and for any damage to be considered against the full range of perils covered 
by his policy. The same applies to my suggestion that RSA pay Mr S £648 (plus simple 
interest at 8% from August 2021 to the date of settlement) to cover the cost of his 
surveyors report. As a result, I havent considered those two issues any further  and I 
will be asking RSA to do both as agreed. 
Mr S felt I hadnt acknowledged the full extent of delays and poor service by RSA. He 
didnt accept £800 was adequate to compensate him for the impact of its mistakes  
including delay. Amongst other comments Mr S said I hadnt considered that RSA had 
taken 12 months to begin monitoring. However, that doesnt seem to match with the 
timeline as I understand it. The claim was first made in November 2019. Monitoring 
began in summer 2020. Trees were removed in the winter of 2020/21. Ive considered 
Mr S latest comments about delay and service, but I still consider £800 to be a fair 
amount to recognise the impact of RSAs mistakes on him. 
I said in the provisional decision I hadnt seen enough to show damage to the roofs (that 
he had paid to repair) was caused by subsidence. I asked Mr S and RSA to provide 
further information on this. Mr S didnt provide anything. RSA explained it had spoken to 
Mr S about the work. It said it will consider images from before completion and others 
from a recent site visit. It will use these and any other evidence to decide if the repaired damage is related to the subsidence. Without anything more persuasive from Mr S this 
seems a fair approach. So I will require RSA to consider the available evidence for 
these repairs  and for it to reimburse the costs if it considers them to be subsidence 
related. 
Mr S highlighted continued regrowth from the removed trees roots. He feels this is 
causing continued damage to the property. After some discussion with RSA its agreed 
to further monitoring for movement. Its said if there is any, it will instruct an arborist to 
review the vegetation to provide evidence to the trees owner  the local authority. 
I think this is a fair proposal. Its sensible to understand if there is continued movement 
and for the cause to be addressed. However, the downside is that it means it may not 
be appropriate to begin permanent repairs until any further movement is resolved. Its 
not practical or desirable for me to set out exactly what should happen. Mr S and RSA 
will need to work together to agree the best way forward. 
RSA should consider what, if any, permanent repairs can be made now. Where these 
cant reasonably go ahead it should undertake temporary repairs to ensure Mr S home 
is safe and habitable in the meantime. 
Mr S said his surveyor attributed the pathway damage to subsidence. I cant see from his 
report that the surveyor said this directly  although he does include the damage in his 
schedule of works. Mr S also says the pathway cracks follow the lines of the tree roots. 
Overall, Ive still not seen enough for me to require RSA to repair the pathway damage as 
subsidence related. However, as RSA intends to do further monitoring it will be reasonable 
for it to consider the results and available evidence to reconsider if subsidence is the cause 
of the pavement damage too. If it feels it is then it should cover repairs or replacement as 
part of the claim.  
Ive attempted to find practical proposals that progress the claim in a fair and reasonable 
way. In this case its not possible for me to set out exactly how the claim should progress. I 
accept my directions wont bring a quick solution to this long running issue. And that they will 
require discussion and co-operation between Mr S and RSA to work out the best way 
forward. In recent months RSA has improved its engagement with, and supervision of, the 
claim. I hope this continues so this unfortunate episode can be resolved for Mr S as soon as 
possible. However, if he isnt satisfied with how RSA goes on to handle the remainder of his 
claim, he can consider making a further complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
arrange for the drains to be inspected and consider any damage against the full 
range of perils covered by Mr S policy.
undertake further monitoring for movement (undertaking any reasonable 
permanent or temporary repairs as soon as possible to ensure a safe and 
habitable home for Mr S) to provide evidence for any necessary further 
preventive work. 
use the monitoring (and other appropriate evidence) to reconsider if the cause 
of the pavement damage is subsidence  and if it is, to cover repairs or 
replacement as part of the claim.   
review the available evidence for the fibre glass roof repairs and reimburse 
Mr S what he paid if it considers the damage to be subsidence related.  pay Mr S £648 (plus simple interest at 8% from August 2021 to the date 
of settlement) to cover the cost of his surveyors report.
pay Mr S £800 compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience its responsible for.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman