DRN-3988168
The complaint
Mr P complains that SteadyPay Limited was irresponsible to lend to him and he now cant 
repay the money.
What happened
Mr P applied for a SteadyPay facility on 2 February 2019 and his application was approved 
with a £1,000 credit limit.
Mr P says SteadyPay had access to information from his bank account and so it should have 
seen that he had multiple gambling transactions. He says the loans should never have been 
approved and its now having an adverse effect on his credit file as hes been unable to 
repay it. Mr P adds that the repayment plan SteadyPay has now proposed is unaffordable to 
him.
SteadyPay says it completed affordability and credit checks for each of the loans and that 
there was nothing to indicate the repayments were unsustainable. It adds that it is obliged to 
report accurate information to the credit agencies and that the default and County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) were correctly applied..
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
SteadyPays checks did not indicate the lending was irresponsible and without access to 
bank statements from the time of the lending she was unable to say the lending was 
unaffordable.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that SteadyPay had access to his bank account through 
Open Banking and would have seen he had a gambling problem at the time. However, he 
added that he was unable to provide bank statements for the account SteadyPay had on 
record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when SteadyPay lent to Mr P. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that SteadyPay needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement; or
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ps case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did SteadyPay complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ps application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way? oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did SteadyPay make a fair lending decision?
Did SteadyPay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, SteadyPay checked Mr Ps credit file and had access to his 
bank account via Open Banking. The checks showed:
Mr Ps income exceeded his expenditure by over £1,000 in the three months leading 
up to the lending;
There was no adverse information on his credit file;
Mr Ps bank statements showed no short-term loans and no direct debits that had 
been returned unpaid;
A number of gambling transactions.
Given the amount of detail available to SteadyPay through its access to Open Banking, and 
as the credit file showed no adverse information, I consider these checks went far enough.
I now need to consider whether the lending was fair in the context of the information 
available to SteadyPay at the time. As it no longer has access to the detail within Mr Ps 
bank account, weve asked Mr P to provide a copy of his statements from the time. 
Unfortunately, he has been unable to provide them, so Ive considered the lending based on 
the information I do have available to me:
SteadyPay lent Mr P a total of £740.06;
oThe first loan of £372.58 was on 4 February 2019;
oThe remainder was in two instalments on 4 March 2019  SteadyPay has 
explained that the first loan amount that day was too little as its systems had 
not been updated for the new employer;
The loans were repayable at £250 per month;
SteadyPay says it did not lend Mr P the full £1,000 limit due to the gambling 
transactions it saw on Mr Ps statement.
Given the affordability and credit checks carried out by SteadyPay, I cant conclude the 
repayments were unsustainable for Mr P. I acknowledge that SteadyPay was aware of some 
gambling transactions, but without the details Im unable to say that those should have 
precluded any lending and I accept the lending was reduced as a result. Based on all the 
information I have seen, I find SteadyPay made a fair lending decision.
Finally, Ive considered whether SteadyPay acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
When Mr P failed to make his contractual payments in May and June 2019 SteadyPay 
agreed a monthly repayment of £50 in July 2019. As no payments were received, it then 
sent several letters, including a default notice in August 2019. When these had no effect, it 
followed up with a reminder and a warning about a CCJ in May 2020. Although a repayment 
plan was agreed in June 2020, no repayments were made and Mr P again failed to respond 
to correspondence. A money claim was issued in July 2020, followed by a CCJ.Following Mr Ps complaint, SteadyPay offered a 50% reduction on the balance at the 
beginning of September. Although Mr P did not agree to this, on 22 September 2022, he did 
agree to a repayment plan, but again, no payments were received.
To date, the only payments Mr P has made on the account are six weekly subscriptions at 
£4 per week, so I dont find SteadyPay acted unreasonably whilst pursuing Mr P for the debt.
SteadyPay has now said A previous offer was made for a 50% discount on the total owed 
balance of £877.06, but it has since expired. To assist the user in closing their account, we 
would like to extend the offer until the end of May as a gesture of goodwill. If the userpays 
off the balance by May 31st [2023], we will be pleased to close the account and satisfy the 
CCJ.
Mr P has said he does not accept this offer, but I consider it to be fair and reasonable.
In summary, I find SteadyPay made a fair lending decision and did not act unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way. I will leave it to Mr P to contact SteadyPay by the end of May 
2023 if he would now like to accept its offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman