DRN-3697298
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
Background
Miss M bought solar panels for her home in December 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Miss M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Miss M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Shawbrook didnt substantively respond by the deadline, so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss M was not given clear information 
to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Miss M fairly and she lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss M from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
In order to calculate that accurately, Shawbrook will need to be provided with up to date 
feed-in tariff (FIT) statements and electricity statements. Those which have already been 
provided only go up to June 2020 and May 2019, respectively. So Miss M will need to 
provide FIT and electricity statements for the periods since then up to summer 2022. On 
receipt of those, Shawbrook will then carry out the required calculation. But to encourage 
prompt production of those statements (which have already been requested), I will only 
award interest on the compensation for the period ending with the date of this decision, 
10 October 2022.
If the calculation shows that Miss M is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Shawbrook must reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation must be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss Ms monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I require Shawbrook to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of this decision. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Miss M have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Miss M and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Miss M and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss M accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option (a, 
b, c or d) she wishes to accept.
If Miss M has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay her the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 
8% a year (from the date of overpayment to the date of this decision).
If Miss M has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Miss M paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest at 8% p.a. from the date of each payment until 10 October 2022.
3. Refund the extra Miss M paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest at 8% p.a. from the date of each payment until 10 October 2022.
5. Pay Miss M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss M first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman