DRN-3611311
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of A, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly handled a 
claim made under As commercial combined policy.
Any reference to Mr M, A, or Aviva includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed at length 
elsewhere, so Ive summarised events.
In 2019, As property was burgled. Mr M made a claim under As commercial insurance for 
various losses, including stolen cash, computer equipment, a passport and keys, damage to 
the property and a claim for business interruption.
Aviva considered the claim and offered to settle in part for the stolen cash, equipment, and 
damage. But didnt provide any settlement for business interruption as it said the available 
evidence showed the company wasnt profitable. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint under a separate reference. They said the 
settlements were fair, but directed Aviva to reconsider the loss of data and passport/keys 
that A was seeking to have covered, as well as reconsider the business interruption claim in 
light of new information about As income. 
So, Aviva reconsidered matters.
It said the loss of data wasnt covered as the required section of the policy hadnt 
been taken out, but even if it had, A wouldnt have complied with its data backup 
condition. In addition, the property damage section of the policy specifically excluded 
loss of data. But Aviva said it would pay £400 for the cost of a specialist re-loading 
data from back up materials.
It said the business interruption issue had arisen as a result of the lost data, so this 
was also not covered.
It would reconsider the passport upon receipt of an invoice to show the cost of 
replacement. And keys were specifically excluded.
Our Investigator considered the complaint, and said:
It was clear A had not taken out Reinstatement of Data cover, and that loss of data 
was specifically excluded from the cover he did have. 
The business interruption section of the policy specified that any claims would be 
excluded if they are not covered by the property damage section of the policy  which 
appeared to be the case here. He said if A had further information to support other 
factors caused the loss, these should be shared with Aviva. 
Avivas offer to reconsider the passport costs was reasonable, and he agreed with 
Aviva that the keys were excluded in line with the policy.
Mr M disagreed, saying:
He was still unhappy about the settlement of cash stolen from the property.
The data lost included various types of data that impacted As business. And he says 
this includes various instructions, recorded files, and procedures amongst other 
information that together form its system of manufacturing  so it shouldnt be 
considered just as data.
The invoice of the passport had already been shared with Aviva.
Our Investigator didnt change his mind. And said the matter of the cash had been 
considered under the previous reference so he could not comment on this further. So, the 
matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in line with the reasons given by our 
Investigator previously. Ill explain why.
Loss of data
As policy covers it for various types of loss or damage. 
Its not in dispute that the burglary that took place left A without various types of data 
that it has said are integral to its business.
As policy includes Reinstatement of Data as an optional cover. And given the type 
of loss in question  a loss of data  it seems reasonable to me that Aviva would 
consider the matter under that section.
Its not disputed that A never took out this optional cover. So, it follows theres no 
cover under it. Aviva has said even if A had taken this cover, it failed to meet a 
condition of backing up data, but given it simply never took the cover I dont think I 
need to consider this further.
Mr M had indicated the claim for loss of data should fall under the Property Damage 
section of the policy. Under this section a specific exclusion states:
We will not indemnify You in respect of
(15) (a) Loss of Data
This satisfies me that theres no claim for loss of data under this section.
Mr M has described the extent of the data lost forms a system which should be 
considered more than data. But at its crux, this is all still lost data, so this hasnt 
changed my mind.
Aviva has since offered £400 to Mr M that it says would cover the cost of re-loading 
data from back up materials. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Business interruption 
For business interruption claims, As policy states:We will indemnify You in respect of any interruption or interference with The 
Business resulting from 
(i) Damage to property used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The 
Business occurring during the Period of Insurance caused by any of the 
following Contingencies and 
(ii)provided that such Damage is not excluded by the Property Damage Section 
of this policy.
For the reasons Ive given above, the damage in question that seemingly has 
interrupted the business here is the loss of data. And this is excluded by the property 
damage section of the policy.
For this reason, Im satisfied this claim has been fairly declined in line with the policy 
terms and Im not directing Aviva to do anything further. 
Passport/keys
Aviva has agreed to reconsider the costs related to the passport upon receipt of 
evidence of the passport being obtained. Our Investigator has directed Mr M to 
provide this to Aviva directly. So, Aviva should reconsider this matter and answer it 
swiftly upon receipt of the evidence. I understand Mr M has said he submitted this 
historically to Aviva, but for a pragmatic resolution even if this is the case I would ask 
he resends it.
Mr M hasnt objected to our Investigators findings on the keys, so I wont repeat the 
policy wording in full here. But in summary, the policy excludes damage to vehicles 
or accessories on or attached to them under the property damage. So, I think Avivas 
direction to Mr M to seek cover under his motor insurance is a reasonable one.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in the circumstances. So, my decision is Aviva should pay £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman