DRN-3221675
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were unaware their whole of life policy had been 
transferred to ReAssure Limited in 2019. 
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs W want to be returned all of the premiums they have 
paid for the policy, so they can seek cover elsewhere.  
What happened
In 1997, Mr and Mrs W took out a reviewable unit-linked whole of life policy with Legal & 
General Assurance Society. It also had an indexation option, so the cover was periodically 
reviewed against the Retail Prices Index. In September 2020, the L&G policy was taken over 
by ReAssure. 
In October 2020, Mr W noticed that the direct debit for the policy was being taken by 
ReAssure. As he and Mrs W had not been told about the transfer, they assumed it was a 
fraudulent transaction. 
So, he and Mrs W complained. He said that as they were not given proper notification of the 
change nor they did not consent to it. So, they said they were entitled to receive a return of 
all the money they had paid into the policy as L&G and ReAssure had shared their bank 
details without their consent.   
ReAssure rejected the complaint. It said it had followed a Part VII legal transfer process 
when taking over the administration of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. It said that L&G had written to 
affected customers in July and August 2019. The High Court approved the transfer after a 
hearing in August 2020. It also told Mr and Mrs W that the relevant information had also 
been made available on L&Gs website. 
In November 2020, ReAssure told Mr and Mrs W that their policy was going to lapse due to 
unpaid premiums. Mr and Mrs W said they did not wish for the policy to continue. 
So, the matter was brought to this service where it was reviewed by one of our investigators. 
He said while he understood Mr and Mrs Ws concerns, the practice of life companies selling 
books of business was quite common. He said that the details of each stage of the proposed 
transfer were set out on the websites of both businesses so he was satisfied this information 
was readily available. As part of the sale and transfer, ReAssure would have acquired Mr 
and Mrs Ws personal details as well as taking over the responsibility of collecting payment 
and the servicing of the cover going forward.
The investigator also explained that any premiums collected from Mr and Mrs Ws bank 
account by ReAssure were taken in accordance with the mandate that was given to it upon 
its takeover of the life insurance and pensions business from L&G. It did not require 
additional consent from Mr and Mrs W. The investigator therefore did not think ReAssure 
had done anything wrong.  
Mr W said it was not acceptable that he and Mrs W had only received the surrender value for 
the policy, not all the premiums they had paid in. They would never have agreed to take out 
a policy with ReAssure, and they were not given the chance to object. If L&G had sent 
transfer information, this should have been issued by recorded delivery.  
The matter was then passed to a different investigator to review afresh. He said the previous 
investigators assessment was correct; the High Court determined that the transfer should go 
ahead. He explained that this service would not normally get involved in complaints about 
legitimate exercise of commercial judgement, and we wouldnt question the judgment of the 
High Court. Even if Mr and Mrs W had objected, the transfer would have gone ahead.  
He also said that he felt ReAssure and L&G before it (for which ReAssure was now 
responsible) had written to Mr and Mrs W in accordance with the requirements of the High 
Court judgment on the transfer.  
Finally, he said he understood Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about the value of the policy and 
the surrender value which had recently been quoted to them, but he did not think this arose 
because of the transfer as Mr and Mrs W had suggested. Their policy remained invested in 
the same fund. The reason for the value of the fund falling (and now since recovering) was 
because of global market conditions following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.  
Mr and Mrs W still disagreed. They said they had surrendered the policy in September 2021 
for less than they had paid in. They felt ReAssure and L&G before it had lied about the 
transfer and the policy, 
Our investigator agreed to reconsider the complaint, but his view was unchanged. He 
recognised that it was frustrating that neither L&G nor ReAssure had been able to provide 
system records relating to the transfer pack issued to policyholders. But he did not think this 
showed, on balance, that it wasnt sent; rather, the only conclusion he could draw with a 
degree of certainty was that Mr and Mrs W didnt receive it.  
In any event, he felt that even if he were to conclude that neither L&G nor ReAssure had 
updated Mr and Mrs W as to the transfer, he had seen no clear evidence that they had 
suffered a quantifiable loss even if it could be said theyd have surrendered their policy in 
2020 and gone elsewhere, rather than having done so in 2021.  
Though they didnt have any further comments to make, Mr W said he and Mrs W wanted 
the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. ReAssure didnt add any other comments either. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though it will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, I dont think this complaint should succeed.   
My findings on this matter, in summary are:
though I realise Mr and Mrs W are not happy about it, the transfer of their policy (and 
the policies of many other customers) from L&G to ReAssure was undertaken in 
accordance with Part VII of the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000;
this service is not a regulator, that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority;
it is my remit to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to a complaint taking into 
account all of the information Ive seen from both parties;the transfer would have gone ahead in any event, and it was compliant with the ruling 
of the High Court;
in the judgment from the Court it was set out how on the effective date of the transfer 
in September 2020, any mandate or other instruction in force [so in this case, the 
direct debit for the policy premium]payable to the Transferor [L&G] under or in 
respect of any of the Transferred Policies shall thereafter take effect as if it had 
provided for and authorised such payment to the Transferee [ReAssure];     
so, ReAssure has not acted unfairly or unreasonably in continuing the policy, as it 
transferred in accordance with legal consent and it took the direct debit as permitted;
I know it is frustrating for Mr and Mrs W that there is no firm evidence of the two 
letters that L&G sent to them in respect of the impending transfer;
the relevant legislation for the transfer does require that affected policyholders are 
notified but it does not specify that tracked delivery status must be obtained, merely 
that notification should be sent;
L&G says it did do so, and cannot account for why Mr and Mrs W did not receive 
their notification pack, unlike many other customers;
L&G had previously written to Mr and Mrs W in respect of their policy and held the 
correct address for them;
though I cannot conclusively determine the letters were sent, I see no reason why 
L&G would not do so and on balance I think it was more likely that they were sent but 
unfortunately not received;
that notwithstanding I still do not agree that non-receipt of these letters would permit 
Mr and Mrs W to receive a return of the premiums to treat the policy as if it never 
existed;
that is not the correct redress for that mistake  even if I made findings that the 
mistake had happened (which I do not);
the likely redress in that situation would be a limited amount of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused;
the policy premiums were invested into the policys underlying investment fund, 
where, for whole of life policies, the aim is to generate sufficient value for the cost of 
life cover as policyholders get older;
the aim of the policy was not to accrue an investment return;
so, the policys surrender value would not exceed the value of premiums paid in for a 
longer term policy such as Mr and Mrs Ws;
Mr and Mrs W have had the benefit of the life cover and that is what the premiums 
paid for;
I therefore do not agree that there should be a premium refund in any event;
Mr and Mrs W decided to surrender their policy anyway, which was a matter for them 
to decide;
but the surrender value was not affected by the transfer;
the funds remained invested throughout in the same Managed 2 Life Acc (Series2) 
fund;
the reason for the fluctuation in the fund value was a sharp decline following the 
outbreak of coronavirus on global markets;
however, if Mr and Mrs W had surrendered their policy sooner, shortly before the 
transfer, the surrender value would likely have been less;
they are therefore not financially disadvantaged;
though they remain opposed to the transfer, I can only uphold a complaint where I 
find a business to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way, and calculate if 
any compensation flows from any mistakes made  and that is not the case here.  My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman