DRN-1427993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) wouldnt let them port their 
mortgage when they wanted to buy a new property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had a mortgage with YBS since 2011 and on 20 November 2016 took a five-
year mortgage product with a fixed rate. Mr and Mrs K intended moving n 2019 and knew 
the mortgage product was portable and this fitted in with their plans. In 2019 they saw a 
property and wanted to port their existing mortgage of £89,000 together with a further loan to 
pay for the new property. This new property has a one-bedroom holiday let adjoining it. YBS 
said it wouldnt lend on it as it was outside its lending criteria. Mr and Mrs K couldnt find this 
lending criteria on the YBS website. They were told that YBS wouldnt lend on holiday lets 
but also that applications are assessed on a case by case basis. Mr and Mrs K complain that 
this is confusing and lacks transparency.
Mr and Mrs K bought the property and got a mortgage with another lender and have paid the 
early repayment charge (ERC). YBS says that as Mr and Mrs K were buying a property 
that was part residential and part business, they werent buying like for like and so it wasnt 
unfair for the lender to refuse to transfer the mortgage product. Our investigator didnt 
believe that YBS had done anything wrong and didnt recommend that this complaint should 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is whether it was fair for YBS to prevent Mr and Mrs K porting their mortgage 
product to another property and as a result they had to pay an ERC. The difficulty here is 
that they were moving from a property that had a residential use only to one that was mixed 
use being part residential and part - I accept it was a very small part - holiday let. Lenders 
have always traditionally separated these types of uses either with different interest rates 
applying to the different uses or not lending in the different markets. So, what Mr and Mrs K 
were doing was not switching like for like but asking YBS to give them a mortgage on a type 
of property that was different than the type of property they had originally been given the 
mortgage on.
I note Mr and Mrs Ks point that they havent had access to the lending criteria but YBS has 
made its reasons for refusing the application clear and although its reasons are unwelcome 
to Mr and Mrs K, I dont consider that these are unreasonable or unfair. I also note that when 
Mr and Mrs K took out the mortgage that they didnt get advice from YBS at that time as it 
was execution only. So, I cant say that they got negligent advice from YBS.
Mr and Mrs K have also shown me a section from YBS terms and conditions headed Use 
and Occupation of the Property which says that the property should be used for residential 
purposes as a single private dwelling. But, also, later it says that YBS would not refuse its 
consent to let the property if the borrower met its conditions for letting out the property at that 
time. Mr and Mrs K point to this as showing a contradiction in YBSs attitude to letting 
propertys out. But lenders during the term of the mortgage will generally, as an exception, 
allow the letting out of properties for limited periods when e.g. the borrower moves away for 
work. That is a different situation than agreeing to a mortgage on the basis that a part of it 
will always be available for letting. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint  
   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman