DRN-4324610
The complaint
Mrs M complains that an appointed representative of TenetConnect Services Limited 
(Tenet) mis-sold her a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy in 
1992.
What happened
In October 1992 Mrs M received advice from an appointed representative of the M&E 
Network Limited (now known as Tenet). It recommended an FSAVC with Axa Equity and 
Law to make level contributions of £40 per month (gross) invested in the with-profits fund. 
At the time Mrs M was aged 41, married and working in the education sector. Her salary was 
£20,400. She had been  a member of a public sector pension scheme since August 1974. 
The scheme received 5% of her earnings and her normal retirement age under the scheme 
was 60. The policy attracted a service charge of £3 per month.
In August 1993 Mrs M was advised to pay an additional £40 (gross) per month split between 
the with-profits and equity funds, and increasing in line with National Average Earnings 
(minimum 5%pa). By this point her contributions to the public sector scheme had increased 
to 6% and her salary was £20,949.
Mrs M believes that the following year, she had a financial review of her retirement planning 
with a new adviser. They recommended that she take out a further FSAVC with Scottish 
Widows. In fact, the information from Scottish Widows suggests that policy was taken out 
before the Axa one, in November 1989.
In February 1999 Mrs M ceased contributions to both FSAVCs due to their unaffordability. 
She took early retirement from the public sector scheme at age 57 in 2008. At her 60th 
birthday in June 2011 Mrs M arranged for a tax-free cash sum and annuity to be bought from 
the proceeds of the Axa (now Aviva) FSAVC. The same thing happened with her Scottish 
Widows FSAVC.
Mrs M complained in September 2021, after seeing a social media advert about mis-sold 
FSAVCs and contacting her claims management company. Tenet initially said that her 
complaint was time-barred, but one of my colleagues issued a decision on 2 May 2023 
concluding that it was brought to Tenet in time.
The complaint was passed to one of our investigators to consider the merits. Tenet has 
explained it has no documentation from the time of sale other than what it could obtain from 
Aviva, and a questionnaire it asked Mrs M to complete. Our investigator considered this 
evidence and thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said:
The adviser should have understood the benefits of all of the options available to Mrs 
M for increasing her pension benefits alongside the public sector scheme, and 
recommended the most suitable of those options. 
It would be fair to expect that an in-house AVC would have offered lower costs 
compared with the Equity & Law FSAVC, as is typically the case. The FSAVC was 
noted as having a service charge of £3 per month. 
Buying an in-house AVC would have given Mrs M the same flexibility to invest on a 
money purchase basis separate to the defined benefits provided under her public 
sector scheme, and to vary or stop her contributions as needed. 
Mrs M was in a job she was likely to remain in until retirement, so the benefit of 
having an FSAVC fund which could be ported to a new occupational scheme is 
unlikely to have held more appeal to her than a potential saving in charges. 
Tenet was required to take this into account in order to provide suitable advice, and 
as there was no evidence that it did, the advice given to Mrs M was unsuitable for her 
circumstances.
Tenet didn't agree with the investigator, but it didn't provide any further comments on the 
merits of the complaint. It has been preoccupied by trying to obtain evidence of any advice a 
subsequent adviser gave Mrs M when she converted her Aviva policy to an annuity in 2011. 
This had originally formed part of the basis on which it considered the complaint was brought 
too late, but which my colleague hadnt found persuasive in her jurisdiction decision.
The investigator contacted Mrs Ms subsequent adviser. Although it could find evidence of 
giving her some advice on other investments  some of which mentioned in passing that she 
had FSAVCs  it didnt have a record of advising her to buy the annuity. The investigator 
relayed this information to Tenet, reiterating that there was no evidence that the new adviser 
told Mrs M that she had cause for complaint against Tenet at the time.
Tenet didnt accept what the investigator said. It knew that Mrs M had confirmed to Aviva 
that shed received advice from the new adviser at the time she bought her annuities. So it 
insisted further evidence must exist. It made no other comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered Tenets further concerns that this complaint was still brought out of 
time. I agree fully with my colleagues reasoning in her jurisdiction decision of 2 May 2023. 
As she explained in relation to Mrs M taking benefits from the FSAVC in 2011, there was 
nothing to suggest that the new adviser reviewed the original advice provided by Tenet, nor 
would it have been expected to. If, as my colleague accepted at the time, Mrs M had sought 
advice from that firm on how to access her benefits, that was first and foremost the advice 
she was expected to receive.
Tenet suspects that the adviser went further than this (as some, of course, might) and 
highlighted to Mrs M that she might have a case for being mis-sold her FSAVC originally. But 
I would have to be satisfied that this was more likely than not the case. If I was satisfied of 
this, then as my colleague explained in her decision, Mrs M's complaint would likely have 
been brought outside both the six and three year time limit set out in DISP 2.8.2R(2) in the 
regulators handbook - and we wouldnt be able to look at the merits of the complaint.
On this point, however, I have to remind Tenet that the subject of this complaint is the quality 
of advice it gave Mrs M on her FSAVC in 1992. Not whether her new adviser did a good 
enough job of suggesting that she should make a complaint against Tenet (the performance 
of which, incidentally, would not amount to a regulated activity).
There is no firm evidence that Mrs M's new adviser had any specific contact with Mrs M at 
the time she bought the annuity at all. Judging by the response our investigator received 
from the new adviser, they appear to have taken over as the servicing agent on her FSAVC 
as a matter of course when they obtained policy information at some stage in the advice relationship. Although Mrs M did write on the form when she converted the FSAVC to an 
annuity that she had been advised by the new adviser, that doesn't of itself make it so. 
Indeed, it seems unlikely that Aviva would have been asking Mrs M who gave the advice, if 
the new adviser had actually arranged the annuity and sent the paperwork to Aviva on her 
behalf. On balance, I think it's more likely that Mrs M wrote the new adviser's name on this 
form because, as a matter of fact, they were her adviser at the time in the general sense. I 
note that £108 of commission was paid to the new adviser as a result of Mrs M doing this, 
which is unlikely to have been conducive to a substantial piece of advice being provided.
As I remain of the same view as my colleague that the complaint was brought in time, I've 
gone on to look at the merits of the complaint.
In 1992, independent advisers were bound by the rules of the Financial Intermediaries, 
Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). These said that an adviser 
should:  
Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care 
in forming its belief, that no transaction in any other such investment (of which it 
ought reasonably to be aware) would be likely to secure the objectives of the 
consumer more advantageously, and   
Take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate 
and reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the recommendation. 
This meant that an independent adviser such as Tenet should have fully explored the 
FSAVC and the various in-house options in terms of their features and cost. They would 
then have needed to explicitly compare what the in-house options and what the FSAVC had 
to offer  and recommend the suitable option for Mrs M. 
Mrs M was a member of a major public sector pension scheme and all schemes were 
required to make an AVC option available. Its likely Mrs Ms scheme had the option both of 
buying added years or making money purchase contributions alongside the scheme. I note 
Mrs Ms representative didnt bring the complaint on the basis that Mrs M would have bought 
added years, and if they did consider this I would have expected them to investigate the cost 
of this option (if it was available) and explain why they think Mrs M would have chosen it.
From what I can see, Scottish Widows has upheld a separate complaint Mrs M made about 
its FSAVC policy in January 2022, and offered compensation which doesnt appear to be on 
an added years basis. Mrs Ms representative says that this is the only letter they have and 
there is no record of that complaint being referred to our service. I take it from this that 
Mrs M found Scottish Widows offer acceptable. So, Ive taken from all of this that Mrs M and 
her representative consider that Mrs M would have been better advised to make additional 
money purchase contributions alongside the public sector scheme.
Despite the limited information we have, I agree with this. There is clear evidence that the 
FSAVC incurred costs of £3 per month, which amounted to 7.5% of each gross contribution 
in the first year alone. The bulk arrangements these schemes negotiated with major insurers 
such as Prudential were known to have significantly discounted costs, which are unlikely to 
have been as high as this. Although we dont have any evidence of what advice Tenet gave 
Mrs M, I find it unlikely that she would have wanted to go ahead with the FSAVC if theyd 
explained there was a cheaper in-house option, as they should have done. And nor do I 
think they should have advised her to buy the FSAVC. The fact that she went ahead with the 
FSAVC suggests to me that it was more likely than not mis-sold.Ive taken into account that, according to the information from Scottish Widows and contrary 
to Mrs Ms recollections, she may already had had one FSAVC before Tenet advised her. 
Even if this is the case, Tenet was expected to provide her with suitable advice. The 
likelihood, given that Scottish Widows has also offered compensation, is that Mrs M was still 
unaware of the potential benefits of the in-house AVC at the time Tenet advised her.
Putting things right
In my view, Mrs M should have been advised to join the in house money purchase AVC 
option, and when given that advice I consider she would likely have followed it. Tenet must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges. The FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total 
Return Index provides the closest correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, 
Tenet should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE 
UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter. 
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs Ms likely income tax rate in 
retirement  which the investigator said was 20% and neither party has disagreed. So, 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Tenet to pay her compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman