DRN-2283050
Complaint
Mrs E has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Mrs E bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill now explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain  
Mrs Es consent before adding it to her store card. However, Mrs E says she doesnt 
remember how she applied for the store card, but remembers being told she had to have 
PPI.
 
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Es application form. The form has a section for the PPI 
titled Account Cover and applicants have to sign this section if they wish to take the policy. 
The section reads (Only sign this box if you require Account cover) and you had to sign 
underneath Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to 
eligibility). . Mrs E has signed this section, indicating she wanted to add the cover.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Mrs E had the option of 
selecting whether or not she wanted Card Protection Plan. Mrs E didnt select this product, 
so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
The difficultly I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs E and the store 
assistant when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. Taking all of this into 
consideration, in the absence of anything else to support what Mrs E has told me, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make Mrs E aware that she 
had a choice about buying the PPI. And I dont think she would have signed for the PPI if 
she didnt want to take it out. 
AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E, but Mrs E says it did. I havent seen 
anything on the application form to suggest AXA reviewed Mrs Es circumstances at the time 
of the sale and that any formal recommendations were made. So I dont think AXA did 
recommend the PPI to Mrs E, which means it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs E doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs E.
Mrs E has told us she would have received at least six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she 
some savings and a car and jewellery which she could sell to help cover her store card 
repayments if she was unable to work. In addition to this, she says she could have relied on 
partner and family if she needed to. 
Having thought about what Mrs E has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs E would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Mrs E was ever made redundant. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs E has said about the fact that she had some savings and 
personal belongings which she could sell. While I dont doubt what shes told us, I dont think 
this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. The PPI would have enabled Mrs E to 
use her savings to cover any other financial commitments she may have had at what could 
be a difficult time. The PPI also would have meant she could keep her car and jewellery, 
which presumably, she wanted.
Finally, Ive considered what Mrs E has said about being able to rely on her partner and 
family to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While Mrs Es partner and family may have wanted to help, their financial 
situation could change, so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs E could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman