DRN-3965752
The complaint
Mr C complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly turned down his claim on his mechanical 
breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C has a manufacturers extended warranty which is provided by AWP. The heating in Mr 
Cs car stopped working so he took it to the manufacturing garage. He said they told him the 
heating element needed replacing as it was no longer working. Because of this Mr C claimed 
on his policy with AWP. 
AWP reviewed the claim and declined it. It said the part hadnt suffered a sudden and 
unexpected mechanical failure and so wasnt covered by the policy. AWP said this was 
because there was sand in the heating element and so the failure wasnt covered. Mr C 
didnt think this was fair and complained. 
AWP reviewed the complaint and said as the failure was due to an outside influence it wasnt 
covered under the policy. Mr C wasnt happy with AWPs response and so referred his 
complaint here. When the complaint was referred here AWP let us know that it could 
possibly fix the issue by flushing the heating system at a cost of £450 which it said it would 
cover. Our investigator let Mr C know about this offer, which he declined. He said neither the 
manufacturing garage nor the independent engineer had recommended flushing the system 
and so he wasnt happy to accept a flush as a way to fix his car.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that Mr 
Cs heating system has suffered a sudden mechanical failure at the point the part which had 
failed stopped working, and so thought it was covered by the policy. She also found that 
AWP hadnt said which exclusion or condition applied to show the claim wasnt covered. She 
also thought it was fair for AWP to repair Mr Cs car, as recommended by the independent 
report and the manufacturing garage. Because of this she recommended AWP pay Mr Cs 
claim as recommended by the manufacturing garage, pay Mr C what he paid for the 
engineers report (£210) and also pay Mr C £300 for distress and inconvenience. 
AWP didnt agree. It said the heater matrix hadnt actually failed but was instead blocked 
which had been caused by an outside influence and referred to casting sand left over from 
the manufacturing process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy covers him for the costs of repairing or replacing parts of his car which have 
suffered an electrical or mechanical failure. The policy covers all factory fitted mechanical 
or electrical components except for those which are specifically excluded. The heating 
components arent something which are excluded under the policy, Ive therefore looked to 
see if the parts of Mr Cs car which need replacing have met the policy definition of an 
insured peril. The policy defines electrical or mechanical failure as:
The unexpected failure of a component which is covered by the 
warranty section of this insurance and which needs immediate repair or 
replacement. We will cover wear and tear components up to 100,000 
miles.
AWP has said the heater matrix hasnt actually failed but is blocked. It goes onto say this is 
from an outside influence and refers to casting sand left over from the manufacturing 
process. Ive considered this but I dont agree it hasnt suffered a electrical or mechanical 
failure. I say this because from looking at the term I think a fair and reasonable interpretation 
is to say a part has failed if it needs repairing or replacing for it to carry out its normal 
function. Its not disputed that Mr Cs heating in the car isnt working and stopped working 
unexpectedly. Ive also considered the engineers report hes provided which says that parts 
need replacing in order for the issue to be fixed. 
Im therefore satisfied that the fault with Mr Cs heating is due to a part or parts failing 
unexpectedly which need replacing in order for the heating to work correctly. It follows that 
Im satisfied Mr Cs car has suffered an electrical or mechanical failure as defined by the 
policy. As Mr C has shown an insured peril has occurred the onus then falls to AWP to show 
it wouldnt be covered due to an exclusion in the policy. AWP has said its failed due to an 
external factor and refers to casting sand left over from manufacturing. AWP has been asked 
to explain which exclusion or term its relying upon, but it hasnt pointed to one.
As AWP hasnt provided a term or exclusion to rely upon to decline Mr Cs claim Im not 
satisfied AWP has shown its fair and reasonable to turn it down. And as Im persuaded Mr 
Cs car has suffered an electrical or mechanical failure as defined by the policy AWP needs 
to pay for the repair to Mr Cs car in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Mr C has also paid £210 for an engineers report and as Im satisfied AWP hasnt shown its 
acted fairly and reasonably by turning down the claim it should cover the cost Mr C paid for 
the report as he wouldnt have needed to pay for the report if AWP had accepted the claim 
as it should have done. AWP should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount to 
compensate Mr C for not having the money, calculated from the date Mr C paid for the report 
until the date of payment.  
The fault with Mr Cs heating has also been going on for two winters meaning that Mr C has 
been unable to use his car for some periods of time due to the fault. This has clearly caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr C. To compensate Mr C for this unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience AWP should pay him £300.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to:
1. Pay Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
2. Pay Mr C £210 for the engineers report. 8% simple interest per year should be 
added to this amount, calculated from the date Mr C paid for the report until the date 
of payment
3. Pay Mr C £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman