DRN-1316640
 The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited settled a third party's claim that was made 
on his car insurance policy
What happened
In April 2019 Mr P's daughter - a named driver on his car insurance policy - was involved in 
an accident with another driver. He says the other driver reversed into his car while doing a 
reverse park. So he contacted Aviva to claim for the damage on his car insurance policy. He 
had his car repaired and paid his £550 excess. He says Aviva told him it would process our 
claim on a no fault basis and it would update him should the situation change. He says 
Aviva told him the claim should take up to three months to resolve.
Mr P says he and his wife contacted Aviva a number of times for an update. But in          
June 2019 they contacted Aviva and were told that it had mistakenly admitted liability without 
discussing the claim with them beforehand. Aviva said it couldn't take the admission of 
liability back, but it said would refund the excess and treat the claim as non-fault. It wrote to 
Mr P to confirm this and treated the complaint as resolved.
Mr P is unhappy Aviva settled the claim and that the third party has profited from this claim. 
He's also unhappy it treated the complaint as resolved on the same day he raised it. And he 
raised the following complaint points:
1. Aviva never contacted him to discuss the claim and he says he always had to contact 
Aviva to get an update;
2. Hes unhappy with the way the complaint handler spoke to them when they raised 
the complaint;
3. Aviva initially said it would treat the claim as non-fault, so he thinks acted contrary to 
what it said initially it would do in admitting liability; 
4. Its unfair the third party has benefited from the claim;
5. Hes unhappy Aviva closed the claim on the same day it was raised;
6. He says they told Aviva when they first reported the claim there might be CCTV 
footage and asked it to get this, but it didnt do so.
 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said, as Aviva had formally accepted liability, this 
isnt something it can now take back. So he said this essentially meant that, even if it 
investigated this matter again and the CCTV footage revealed Mr P's daughter wasnt at 
fault, Aviva would still be unable to take back what had initially been said.
The investigator said Aviva made an error in admitting liability, which it's admitted, and he 
thought it was fair for Aviva to do this. He also thought Aviva acted fairly in refunding the 
£550 excess, treating the claimas non-fault and allowing Mr P's No Claims Discount. But the 
investigator also thought this situation would have caused Mr P and his family, distress and 
inconvenience, in particular the following:He didn't think Aviva needed to keep Mr P updated throughout the claim journey 
unless there were any meaningful updates. But he noted that it didn't tell Mr P when 
it had settled the claim and he thought it should have done so.
He thought it would have been distressing for Mr P to find out that Aviva had said his 
daughter had caused an accident that he didn't think she had caused.
 
However the investigator didn't think the complaint handler had acted unfairly on the 
telephone call. He also said he couldn't take into account the fact that the third party has 
benefited from this claim. But he still thought this would have been an upsetting time for      
Mr P and his family and he thought Aviva should pay him £150 in compensation.
Aviva accepted the investigator's opinion. But Mr P didn't think the amount of compensation 
was fair. He thinks Aviva should give him a year's free insurance and pay him what it paid 
the third party. He didn't think the compensation of £150 was in any way proportionate to the 
series of serious errors that he thinks Aviva has committed. So he asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons. And I'll now 
explain why.
I should first set out that this service is a dispute resolution service, not the regulator of the 
insurance industry. So it's not our role to fine and punish a business. Our role is to look at 
whether a business has acted fairly and look to put things right where we don't think it has. I 
think there are two issues for me to decide here - the handling of the claim and the handling 
of the complaint. I shall deal with each point separately.
Handling of the claim
This service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, as that is the 
responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Aviva has carried out a fair 
investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision. 
Mr P's policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Aviva to have sole control over the 
claim and decide whether to settle or defend it. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
Mr P says that the third party reversed into his stationary car. The third party disputed this 
and said that Mr P's daughter drove into his car.
I can see that Aviva reviewed this claim and had referred the respective damage to both cars 
to its engineer to comment on. But it seems it prematurely conceded liability before the 
engineer responded. I also think it would have been good practice that it discussed the 
damage with Mr P before it admitted liability. And it's accepted that it should have done so. 
However, I'm conscious that in this case there were two separate versions of events with 
both parties saying the other was responsible for what happened. And there were no 
independent witnesses to the accident. Claims are usually settled on a split liability basis in 
these circumstances. So, even if Aviva had done everything it should have done, it's 
possible it would have still conceded some liability in this matter. And, had it done so, the claim would have been treated as a fault claim and Mr P's No Claims Discount would have 
been affected. But I do think it's actions has prejudiced its and Mr P's opportunity to defend 
the claim. So I think Aviva's decision to refund the excess and treat the claim as non-fault is 
in line with what I would have required it to do. 
I agree with the investigator that Aviva wasn't required to update Mr P constantly. But I do 
think it should have updated him with any significant updates. So I think Aviva should have 
contacted Mr P to advise it had admitted liability on the claim. And I think its failure to do so, 
would have caused him some distress and inconvenience. The investigator recommended 
Aviva paid Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience for the way it handled the claim. 
And I think this is in line with what I would have awarded.
I note Mr P thinks Aviva should give him a year's free insurance and pay him what it paid the 
third party. But I don't think this is fair as it would amount to fining or punishing Aviva. As I 
said above, it's not this service's role to fine or punish a business but to look to put things 
right when things have gone wrong. In this case Aviva has immediately looked to put things 
right when it realised it had prematurely conceded liability. And Mr P hasn't lost out because 
of what Aviva did wrong.
Handling of the complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Aviva's complaint handler handled the complaint. But I think 
the complaint handler acted fairly and professionally throughout. I can see he immediately 
acknowledged the mistake Aviva had made and put things right on the same day Mr P 
complained. I've listened to the call and I think he was empathetic and understanding all the 
way through the call. I think he responded fairly to the concerns Mr P's family raised on the 
call.
I note Mr P is unhappy that Aviva closed the complaint on the same day it was raised. But 
the dispute resolution rules set out by the regulator set out that a business can close a 
complaint within three days if it considers the matter resolved. So I don't think it acted 
unfairly in closing the complaint. And it referred Mr P to this service if he was unhappy with 
the outcome raised. 
So I don't think Aviva needs to compensate Mr P for the way it handled the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused in the way it handled his claim. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman