DRN-2010083
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the decision his insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure), made when 
settling liability on a third party claim made against his policy.
What happened
On 8 January 2020, Mr I was involved in an incident with a cyclist whilst driving. Mr I didnt 
tell esure about the accident, the cyclist made a claim against Mr Is policy and esure got in 
touch with Mr I about this in February.
Mr I said that he was driving when a cyclist came from behind his vehicle on the left hand 
side and then tried to run right and fell. He braked sharply to avoid the cyclist being crushed. 
Mr I says there were cars coming from the opposite direction and the road was possibly 
slippery. The police and an ambulance were called. Mr I said there was no contact between 
his car and the cyclist and there was no damage to the bike. He later sent esure photos to 
show there was no damage to his car.
The cyclists account of the incident was that she used her right hand to indicate that she 
intended to turn right and then started to slow as there was oncoming traffic that was also 
turning. She says as she began to turn right Mr I collided with her, hitting her on her 
righthand side.
There were three independent witnesses who gave their details to the third cyclist  two had 
given the same phone number. esure spoke to two of these witnesses. But neither witness 
saw the incident as it happened. The first heard a noise, turned around and Mr Is car was 
straddling the road, across the white line. They saw the cyclist lying in the middle of the road 
near the white line. The other witness was driving a vehicle at the time and could only 
comment on the what happened after the incident had occurred. Mr I says he was 
concerned for the wellbeing of the cyclist and didnt feel the need to collect any witness 
details as an accident had occurred. 
esure settled the claim, accepting liability. They said this was based on all the evidence 
including the independent witnesses accounts and, if it was to go to court, it was more likely 
that the outcome would not be favorable for Mr I given that the other party was on a bicycle 
and considered to be a vulnerable road user. 
Mr I was unhappy, wanted to go to court and alleged that it was a fraudulent claim. esure 
referred to the policy terms which state that the insurer will make decisions about when to 
defend a claim or accept or settle liability and didnt uphold Mr Is complaint as this is what it 
had done here. Mr I didnt feel the witness statements are consistent with the claim being 
made so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He found that esure had acted 
within the policy terms and made a fair and reasonable decision when it settled the claim. Mr 
I remained unhappy, so the complaint has now been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr I that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
I know that Mr I has very strong views about what happened in the incident and says the 
third party is fraudulent. But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is 
something only a court can consider. When coming to my decision the key things I need to 
decide are whether esure has:
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy; and
dealt with the claim fairly when making its own decision on liability. 
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the agreement between 
esure and Mr I. These allow esure to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesnt 
need Mr Is approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a 
third party. esure also isnt obliged to take a case to court or the policy holder wants it to. Its 
also allowed to consider the potential costs and risks of proceeding to court. That might 
mean it makes a decision the policy holder disagrees with - as has happened here.
Taking everything into account, I also think esure investigated matters reasonably. And Im 
not persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to settle the claim by 
accepting accept full liability for it.
It considered the witnesses evidence and both sides version of what happened, the location 
and nature of the incident and what Mr I said when esure contacted him because a claim 
had been made. Also, esure will have experience of how courts view such matters, and the 
likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case.
I note that Mr I says the photos of his car didnt appear to have any markings that might be 
expected if thered been contact between him and the cyclist. But Ive also kept in mind that 
the photo was taken some time after the incident and, even if there had been any contact 
there may not have been damage or markings to Mr Is car visible in the photo. So I dont 
think this means esure has failed to properly considered this evidence. 
I understand Mr I feels strongly about this and I know he believes the third party to be 
making a fraudulent claim. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide liability. 
What Ive looked at is whether esure has followed the policy terms and exercised its 
discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the case as it has done here. And Im 
satisfied it has. So I wont be asking esure to do anything to put things right in relation to this 
matter.
I know Mr I will naturally be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end 
what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with esure  can do for him.
                                                                                                               
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman