DRN-3892158
The complaint
Mr F complains Capquest Debt Recovery Limited havent registered all the payments 
towards his debt they should have.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of this below, and they form part of this final decision. 
My understanding is Mr F took out a loan with a company Ill refer to as R in 2006. The 
account defaulted as it fell into arrears  and over the years since then Mr F has had several 
payment arrangements. Having reviewed these, he thinks some payments havent been 
credited to his account. His complaint to Capquest said hed calculated this shortfall as 
£2,186.14.
On 14 January 2022 Capquest provided a brief reply saying they couldnt provide their final 
response because they were carrying out a thorough investigation. They did say though 
theyd found payments totalling £1,120 thatd not been credited to Mr Fs loan account. They 
said as theyre no longer managing the account, the payments would need to be refunded 
directly to Mr F. 
In their final response issued a week later on 21 January 2022 Capquest said when they 
began looking after Mr Fs account on behalf of R, they took over three accounts. They said 
theyd found all of the payments, and each one had been applied to an account to reduce 
the balance of that account. They said references of the payments showed which account 
those payments were made to. Because of this, they said they werent upholding the 
complaint.
Unhappy with this later response Mr F asked us to look into things.
Our Investigator said Capquest had located missing payments from 2016 totalling £1,120 
and these needed to be refunded  but he felt theyd miscalculated this amount, and actually 
the refund should be £1,228.04. He also felt Mr F had been caused inconvenience, so 
awarded him £100 compensation.
There was a separate complaint addressed to another debt collection company, where the 
remaining payments Mr F was disputing from 2015 had been found  so they no longer 
formed part of this complaint.
Mr F accepted this outcome. Our Investigator asked Capquest to reply on multiple 
occasions, but as at the date of this decision theyve not done so. Generally if a financial 
business disagrees with the outcome wed reached theyd provide additional information for 
our service to consider.
As Capquest havent done that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain as a starting point its unclear to me if Capquest still agreed 
they should refund the £1,120 they said in their first response they intended to. I say that 
because their second response says theyve located all the payments and theyre not 
upholding his complaint  when actually Id expect them to say they are upholding this 
complaint if refunding the £1,120. But what theyve not made clear is why they said in their 
first response theyd found eight payments of £140 totalling £1,120 that hadnt been applied 
to an account and needed to be refunded  but are now saying these dont need to be 
refunded. Nor have they clearly explained when the payments of £1,120 had been credited 
or provided any evidence of this happening. As Ive explained above, generally, if a financial 
business disagrees with our Investigator theyd provide additional evidence to support this  
Capquest havent replied in over six months.
The eight payments totalling £1,120 are from 2016. Mr F initially raised these payments as a 
concern saying they were missing from his records. 
He provided a copy of his loan account statements  these show no credits of any amount 
from January 2016 until a payment of £31.96 was credited in August 2016.
Ive also seen Mr Fs current account statements from this time. These show he was paying 
£140 per month to Capquest from January until August 2016 as he said he was.
So, Ive got statements showing payments leaving his account to Capquest of £140 for 
January to July 2016 with no credits  and in August a payment of £140 to Capquest, but 
only £31.96 was credited to his loan account.
Capquests explanation is these payments were credited to an account  but theyve 
provided no evidence of this. In Mr Fs complaint about the debt collector who was taking 
payments in 2015, theyve accepted they didnt apply Mr Fs credits to the loan account 
correctly.
Given the lack of evidence provided by Capquest (and the lack of a response over a 
significant period of time), combined with Mr Fs payments in 2015 being accepted as not 
having been credited (albeit by another company)  it seems more likely than not to me 
based on the evidence I have Mr Fs payments from 2016 also werent applied to his loan 
account.
To clarify though, I think this applies to the January to July £140 monthly payments. Over 
these seven months there were seven payments  this comes to £980.
Our Investigator has calculated that Mr F paid £140 in August, but I think then believed a 
separate payment of another £140 was made  of which only £31.96 was credited to the 
loan account.
But the statements dont support this. I think Mr F made his August payment of £140 as 
usual  and for some reason that I cant know, only £31.96 of this was credited to his loan 
account.This would suggest £108.04 wasnt credited from the August payment of £140, along with 
the £980 from the January to July 2016 payments. This means in total I think Mr F has paid 
£1,088.04 worth of payments to Capquest, with no evidence provided to show theyve been 
credited to his loan account as they should have been. So, I intend to require Capquest to 
refund these payments to Mr F.
Ive noted in his complaint Mr F has highlighted two payments, May and July 2017, that 
havent been credited  but his loan statement does show three credits of £140 in 
September 2017, though he only made one payment from his current account in that month. 
I cant know for sure these are the May and July 2017 payments But in any event for this 
time period Mr F has made payments towards the loan, and Capquest have credited the 
loan, with the same amount.
I am in agreement though with our Investigator Mr F has been caused inconvenience by this 
situation. I think Capquest providing conflicting information about whether Mr F was due a 
refund  by first saying he was, and then seemingly saying he wasnt, is in itself distressing. 
Added to that Ive found Mr F is due a refund as outlined above, I think compounds the 
distress Mr F has experienced. Because of that, I intend to award £200 compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F just asked for updates on what happened next.
Capquest explained they felt they had sent the money over to R. They said though due to 
the age of the transactions they could no longer evidence that. 
As Capquest were insistent theyd paid the money to R, our service contacted R. They said if 
Mr F can evidence he paid Capquest but the money wasnt credited to his loan account then 
theyd have to assume Capquest hadnt passed the money over to them.
R also provided an internal screenshot which matched the information in Mr Fs statements 
which Ive set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Capquest feel quite strongly they passed the money over to R  but Ive not 
been provided with any evidence I consider satisfactory to confirm that. In addition, weve 
now asked R who have also provided evidence which is the same as Mr Fs statements.
I cant know for certain whats happened here but based on the same evidence I used to rely 
on when issuing my provisional decision, I consider it more likely than not Capquest have 
received payments of £1,088.04 from Mr F but havent credited them to his loan account. So, 
Ill require Capquest to refund this amount to Mr F.
I remain of the opinion Mr F has been caused inconvenience and distress, so still think the 
£200 compensation award is fair.
If it later transpires the payments Mr F made to Capquest were paid to R, then Id expect 
Capquest to take that up with R  given the statements show no evidence of those payments 
being credited.Putting things right
I require Capquest to:
Pay Mr F £1,088.04 representing payments hes made to his debt which Capquest 
havent applied.
Pay Mr F a further £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to carry out the actions 
in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman