DRN-3899066
The complaint
E is complaining Barclays Bank Plc processed a chargeback without giving sufficient notice 
it had done so.
What happened
E  a travel agent  sold and arranged a holiday for a consumer (the consumer) at a cost of 
£4,180. In March 2020 Barclays received a request from the consumer to process a 
chargeback claim against E for the £4,180 they paid. Barclays wrote to E by post to say the 
chargeback had been raised and it had provided a temporary refund. Barclays says it asked 
E to provide evidence or an explanation for why the chargeback shouldnt succeed and it 
needed E to respond within a certain timeframe. However, Barclays didnt receive a 
response from E until 30 April 2020 at which point it said that it was too late and the refund 
had become permanent. E didnt think this was fair and was unhappy Barclays had sent the 
correspondence by post, given the government restrictions requiring people to work from 
home owing to Covid-19. So E said it had limited access to its written post. Barclays didnt 
think it had acted unfairly, so E referred its complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant.
Barclays says it was unable to defend the chargeback because E responded too late. But 
Im not persuaded that was the case. I understand Barclays processed the chargeback on 
22 April 2020 - when it wrote to E. Generally a merchant has 14 days to respond. Barclays 
received Es response on 30 April 2020, so I think it received a response in time. And it 
hasnt given me anything to show this was late.
But, even if the reply wasnt received in time, I think its down to the way Barclays 
communicated with E. E - as the merchant - thinks Barclays treated it unfairly as it thinks 
Barclays should have communicated by email given the national restrictions. Barclays says it 
acted in line with the terms and conditions in communicating by post.
I do not dispute that the terms of the policy allowed Barclays to communicate by post, but, I 
think it would have had reasonable notice that E would have limited access to written post 
owing to the national requirements to work from home. So I think it should have adapted its 
communication methods to ensure E received its correspondence - especially given the 
limited timescales it had to respond. I think, had it written by email, its most likely E would 
have replied in time. I now need to think about whether E has lost out as a result.
E says Barclays has said the chargeback would have succeeded had the information been 
provided in time, but I need to think whether that would be the case. I think its important to 
note that there are three stages to a chargeback. So, even if Barclays had defended the 
chargeback at the first instance, I have to consider whether there could have been further 
information provided by the consumer and ultimately what the likely outcome would be. 
In this case a chargeback could potentially be attempted either under the grounds of the 
services werent received or a credit wasnt processed. Under the chargeback rules, as the 
business who processed the transaction, E would be considered to be the merchant on 
record. So its ultimately responsible for the handling of the chargeback and for any 
non-provision of service claim.
E says that the deposit is a non-refundable deposit, so it says the chargeback should have 
failed. Ive asked E to provide details of the booking and evidence that the consumer 
cancelled the booking, but it hasnt provided this. However, Im also conscious that two other 
chargebacks were successfully defended at the time, which supports the fact that its most 
likely that deposits E took for holiday bookings were non-refundable. From experience, this 
is also not unusual. So I dont think the consumer was entitled to a refund if the holiday was 
still scheduled to go ahead at the time of the chargeback. So I think its likely a claim for 
credit not processed wouldnt be successful. I dont think this is disputed either.
However, as I said above, while the consumer wasnt entitled to a refund in the event they 
cancel. Im conscious that, owing to travel restrictions arising from Covid-19, most holidays 
were cancelled around that time due to the inability to travel and national lockdowns.
However, in this case. Im conscious that the chargeback claim was made on 16 March 2020 
which was before many holidays were cancelled. E has told us that at that time it wasnt 
known whether the consumers holiday would go ahead and I think its unlikely the 
consumers holiday had been cancelled when they made the chargeback claim.
Ultimately, it seems to me that this was a situation where the consumer cancelled their 
holiday and wasnt entitled to a refund of the deposit. I think its likely that this would have 
been a fair defence to the chargeback claim. So it follows that I think Barclays would have 
successfully defended the chargeback - as it had with the other two claims - had E been able 
to respond in time.
So I think E has lost out because of whats gone wrong and I think Barclays should pay back 
the £4,180 it refunded to the consumer. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date Barclays took the money back until it pays it back to E.
Barclays didnt accept my provisional decision for the following reasons:
It reiterated that it was unable to defend the chargeback because E didnt respond in 
time  i.e. by 28 April 2020. It said the response E sent was dated 20 April 2020, but it 
didnt receive the response until 30 April 2020.
It thought it was unfair for it to be penalised for using the postal service system it already 
had in place so soon into the pandemic. 
It thought it was unfair to wholly apportion responsibility onto Barclays, given it acted in 
line with the chargeback policy.
It was concerned that this could set a precedent that would unfairly penalise it.
E didnt respond to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken what Barclays has said, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my 
provisional decision.
Barclays says that Es response to the chargeback was dated 20 April 2020, but it wasnt 
received until 30 April 2020. However, despite previous requests, it hasnt provided anything 
to support this. On the other hand, E has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Barclays in 
response to the chargeback claim which says that Barclays didnt write to it until 22 April 
2020. Im persuaded that this is likely to be what happened as its based on something 
written at the time  i.e. Barclays didnt write to E until eight days after the pre-arbitration 
claim was raised for its comments, giving E just six days to respond.
E has said, owing to the government-imposed requirements to work from home, it was only 
able to collect post from the office once a week. So it said it didnt receive the letter from 
Barclays until 3 May 2020. Im persuaded by what E has said here and, as I said, its 
provided the letter it sent in defence to the chargeback which supports Es testimony.
Further to this, if as Barclays alleges, E had to respond by 28 April 2020, Barclays should 
have written to E before 22 April 2020. In doing so, its only given E a few days to respond, 
which I dont think is fair.
I remain of the opinion that, given the very limited timeframe available to E to respond (14 
days) I dont think it was fair for Barclays to use post as the only method of communication. 
And I think its Barclays failure to be pro-active in this case that has caused E to suffer the 
loss  as opposed to anything E did wrong.
Ultimately, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think the chargeback would 
have been fairly defended had E been able to respond in time. So I still think E has lost out 
for the reasons Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Barclays Bank Plc to pay E £4,180. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date Barclays took the money back until it pays it back to E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman