DRN-3919534
The complaint
Mr M has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) was irresponsible to have agreed
credit for him.
What happened
CCP provided Mr M with three loans. The first was for £1,500 taken out in August 2016. This
was to be repaid over 18 months at £173 a month. The second was taken out in December
2017 and a third (£1,700) in May 2018. The monthly repayment for each of these last two 
loans was £196, but I have no further information about them.
These were all log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Mr M
provided CCP with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr M didnt make his loan
repayments CCP could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of his vehicle.
Mr M said that CCP should not have agreed to lend to him because he had other loans at
the time and feels his financial circumstances werent properly checked. Mr M says he used
these loans to repay his existing short term loans.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend that it be
upheld. They found that the checks CCP carried out before agreeing the loans wouldnt have
shown them to be unaffordable or unsustainable for him.
Mr M didnt accept this recommendation. He said that CCP should have seen he was having
issues with his finances and not continued to lend to him. Mr M asked for his complaint to
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve and it came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2022 explaining why I thought Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld in part and setting out my proposals for what CCP should to do 
to put things right for him. I allowed time for Mr M and CCP to provide comments or new 
information they wished me to consider when making a final decision on the matter, and I 
havent had anything further from either party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and without any further information or comment to review, 
Ive found no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions or change my redress 
proposals. I am upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
CCP and Ill set out again my reasons for doing so in this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision,  CCP will be familiar with the regulations in place at 
the time so I will summarise its main obligations. CCP needed to check that Mr M could 
afford to meet his repayments sustainably before agreeing each loan. In other words, it 
needed to check that he could meet his repayments out of his usual means without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The necessary checks needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (amount, 
term etc.) and Mr Ms particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that CCP needed to pay due regard to Mr Ms interests
and treat him fairly. The Consumer Credit (CONC) handbook paragraph 2.2.2G gave an
example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit
agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history,
age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did CCP complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms applications to satisfy itself that he would be
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did CCP make fair
lending decisions?
CCP asked Mr M about his income and expenditure before agreeing his first loan in August
2016. It checked these figures against his payslips and bank statements. CCP recorded
Mr Ms net monthly income as £1,526 and his living costs as £865. Mr M also paid monthly
child maintenance of £231. This left him with an estimated surplus of about £430 a month.
CCP noted that Mr M owed £1,126 on three existing short term loans, which he wanted to
consolidate. It seemed he would be able to meet his repayments without difficulty, once
these loans were paid.
I think CCP was right to ask Mr M about his income and expenditure and look to
independently verify this information. After all, he would need to meet his repayments for 18
months and the consequences of not doing so were potentially serious in that he might lose
his car.
CCP said in its final response to Mr M about his complaint that hed approached it to
consolidate his outstanding debt with five short term lenders and one credit card provider, all
of which came to £1,500. It provided us with copies of Mr Ms statements for two bank
accounts  one covering March, April and May 2016, the other covering 11 May to 10 June
2016.
CCP could see from these statements that Mr M was borrowing from at least three other
short term lenders and seemed to be dependent on credit  hed borrowed £1,155 in March,
£890 in April and £1,000 in May.
Given the amounts Mr M was regularly borrowing and the amount hed borrowed from CCP,
its not unreasonable to think that this loan might clear his outstanding short term loans. CCP
could see from the information it had that Mr M had been borrowing for a few months. 
Bearing in mind that this was Mr Ms first loan with CCP and that hed said it was for 
consolidation, Ive concluded that CCP wasnt irresponsible to lend to him on the basis of the 
information it had.
When Mr M applied for his second loan in December 2017, CCP gathered similar
information, though has only provided me with statements for one bank account covering 11
August to 11 November 2017. I think the checks CCP carried out on this occasion were
proportionate  it asked Mr M about his means and checked his bank statements to verify
his finances. As before, Ive reviewed the information CCP relied on and considered whether
it made a fair lending decision.
CCP recorded that Mr M had two salaries  one of £1,650 and one of £1,050. It noted his
expenses as £625, and that he owed over £1,200 across three short term loans. However,its clear that this summary doesnt capture the full story about Mr Ms finances as his
expenses were higher and his debts more extensive.
CCP could see from the bank statements it had that Mr M was paying more than his stated
amount of £250 for rent, for example, as there are payments to his partner for £500
referenced rent. Mr M was still paying child maintenance of over £200, which wasnt noted,
and he had returned direct debit payments for his car insurance, water bill, credit card and
short term loans because he didnt have enough money in his account. The statements also
show Mr M was borrowing from at least three other short term lenders. He was borrowing
from one to pay another, for example when he didnt have enough money in his account and
his payment had been returned.
Mr M was making transfers from this account into his other current account. CCP knew from
the statements it had seen before that Mr M transferred money to this other account and
paid some of his regular bills and short term loans from this. Hes provided us with these
statements, which show more expenses and borrowing from yet more short term providers 
over £800 in September and over £1,000 in August 2017.
I think it should have been obvious to CCP at this point that Mr M had an ongoing shortfall in
his means which he was borrowing to cover and was reliant on credit to meet his living costs
and repay his existing debts. Any further checks on his finances would have confirmed this. 
Under these circumstances it wasnt likely that Mr M would be able to repay further credit
without borrowing again, and Ive concluded that CCP was irresponsible when it agreed to 
this second loan for him.
Mr M applied for a third loan in May 2018, just five months later. I dont know if the second
loan had been fully repaid, or was refinanced with this third loan. CCP noted Mr Ms income
as £1,650 and his expenses as £535, plus £60 on repaying credit card balances. It also
noted Mr Ms debts consisted of about £700 on three credit cards.
CCP provided bank statements for one of Mr Ms bank accounts covering 12 February to
11 April 2018 and, as before, there are inconsistencies between the summary information
CCP noted and the expenses and debt levels showing on the statements.
It seems to me Mr Ms circumstances hadnt changed in the intervening months since his
previous loan  he was spending more than he had coming in and was borrowing from at
least six different short term lenders. I think CCP should have seen from the information it
had that Mr M wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay further credit. Ive concluded that 
it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him again.
In summary, Ive found that CCP shouldnt have agreed a second and third loan for
Mr M on the basis of the information it had. And, had it looked into his circumstances in more
depth, wouldnt have been reassured that Mr M could meet his repayments without
borrowing again. Ive concluded that CCP was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr M 
on these occasions and it needs to put things right for him.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr M repays the capital he borrowed and had the use of but he shouldnt
have to pay any interest or charges on the second and third loans, provided in December
2017 and May 2018 respectively. In order to put things right for him, CCP should:
Waive any outstanding balance and cap the amount Mr M needs to repay at the total 
capital amount he borrowed for these loans; andConsider all payments made by Mr M (for example interest, charges and fees 
including any sign-up fees) as payments towards the total capital; and
oRefund any overpayments to Mr M, along with 8% simple interest per annum* 
to these overpayments from the date they were paid to the date of refund; or
oIf an outstanding capital balance remains, then CCP should discuss an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M; and
Remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Ms credit file, once 
settled; and
Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Ms car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Ms complaint about CarCashPoint Limited 
in part and it now needs to put things right as outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman