DRN-4120089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that more 2 life Ltd (M2L) didnt give them the opportunity to port 
their equity release mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S are represented by Mr T, their mortgage adviser.
What happened
In early March 2022 Mr and Mrs S phoned M2L to discuss the possibility of porting the equity 
release mortgage. Mr S said he and Mrs S had already sold their house but they wanted to 
port their mortgage so they had money to pay some debts and furnish their new property  
amongst other things. M2L said the porting process usually took 12 to 15 weeks as it needed 
to consider Mr and Mrs S circumstances against its lending criteria, and value their property. 
It also said that porting the mortgage would incur additional fees. Mr S said he was surprised 
by that  he hadnt realised it would take so long. The buyer of his property wanted to move 
in a much shorter timeframe.
During the phone call, the M2L adviser said it would provide Mr and Mrs S with an indicative 
redemption statement. Theres no dispute that an early repayment charge (ERC) of £0 was 
set out in the indicative redemption statement sent to Mr and Mrs S. Later an ERC of more 
than £3,600 was included in the final redemption statement sent to Mr and Mrs S.
M2L acknowledged this mistake and offered Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation. Mr and Mrs 
S didnt think that was enough to resolve their complaint so they complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They say that as a result of M2L saying they couldnt port their 
existing mortgage they were forced to repay it on completion of the property sale and enter 
into a new equity release mortgage with M2L at a higher interest rate after they moved to 
their new property. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She thought the £500 compensation offered was fair 
and reasonable for the mistake about the ERC. She went on to say that there was no 
guarantee that a porting application would have completed in the short timeframe dictated by 
the buyer of Mr and Mrs S property, and she thought it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve been able to complete a porting application given the timeframes involved. 
However, she still expected M2L to allow Mr and Mrs S to put forward a porting application if 
they wanted to. So, she recommended that M2L paid them an additional £100 compensation 
 in other words that it should pay them £600 compensation in total.
M2L agreed to pay Mr and Mrs S £600 compensation in total. However, Mr and Mrs S 
remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. Mr T says the total cost to Mr and Mrs S for not being able to 
port the original mortgage when compared to the new mortgage plus the ERC could total 
around £35,000 over the assumed mortgage term of 20 years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as out investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute that an ERC of £0 was set out in the indicative redemption statement Mr 
and Mrs S were sent. So I can understand why they were annoyed when an ERC of more 
than £3,600 was set out in the final redemption statement.
However, the ERC of more than £3,600 would always have been payable in circumstances 
when Mr and Mrs S were unable to port their mortgage/when they redeemed their existing 
equity release mortgage when they sold their property. So I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to say that the ERC should be waived as Mr T has suggested. 
Mr T has said that Mr S was bluntly told he wouldnt be able to port his existing mortgage 
with M2L. I dont think thats quite right. Ive listened to a recording of the phone call Mr S 
had with M2L in early March 2022. As set out above, Mr S started the phone call by saying 
that hed already sold his property, that and things were moving very quickly. Its clear that 
Mr S was surprised to hear that it generally took 12-15 weeks for M2L to port a mortgage, 
and that other options (e.g. redeeming their current equity release mortgage and taking out 
another) were discussed as it seemed unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would be able to port their 
mortgage with M2L in the timeframe dictated by the buyer of their property.
I appreciate that the conversation might have made Mr S think that he would be wasting his 
time putting in a porting application. But that doesnt mean that M2L wouldnt let him try  as 
Mr T has suggested. The adviser Mr S spoke to said M2L would try to help and said shed 
send the porting application form to Mr S by email. I can also understand why Mr S was 
frustrated that M2L didnt say it would consider a porting application more quickly. However, 
M2L needed to consider Mr and Mrs S financial circumstances against its lending criteria, 
and value their property before agreeing to a porting application. So I can understand why it 
didnt say that either. I also think it would have been unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have 
been able to port their mortgage with M2L in the short timeframe dictated by their buyer even 
if theyd made a porting application in early March 2022 
M2L agreed to pay Mr and Mrs S £600 compensation in total. I think its likely that Mr and 
Mrs S will be disappointed by the outcome of this complaint but for the reasons set out 
above, M2L doesnt need to do more to resolve it.
Putting things right
To put matters right I think more 2 life Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs S £600 to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that more 2 life Ltd should pay Mr and 
Mrs S £600 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman