DRN-3123463
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his property insurer Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of a 
claim he made following a storm in February 2020. He, primarily, is unhappy that it declined 
part of his claim, but also has a number of issues with the way it handled the claim and a 
settlement it offered to him for the part of the claim that was accepted.
What happened
Mr Ws property was damaged in February 2020; the flat garage roof had let water in 
damaging the interior of the garage below, two window panes were cracked and there was 
internal cracking in the house. Aviva sent a contractor to Mr Ws property in March and it 
said that all but the water damage to the garage ceiling would be declined. Mr W was 
unhappy. In June 2020 Aviva sent another contractor to the property. It came to the same 
conclusion  there was no storm damage to the garage roof, nor was the cracking of window 
panes and internal plasterwork, storm related. A delay then occurred regarding internal work 
and this wasnt progressed until after Mr W had complained to Aviva in September 2020.
When Mr W complained to Aviva in September he said he was unhappy about delays to that 
point, and the change in contractor had meant hed had to visit the property which is quite 
some distance from his home. He said the first contractor had given him the wrong detail 
about his policy excess and the second contractor hadnt worn a face mask. He said the 
damage was clearly all caused by the storm. Aviva accepted there had been some avoidable 
delays, that wrong information had been given and that its contractor should have worn a 
mask. It said it would pay £300 compensation but that its decision on the parts of the claim 
which were declined remained. Regarding the internal damage it said it would arrange for 
repairs to be done, or a cash settlement to be made once Mr W repaired the roof. This was 
all confirmed in a final response of 5 October 2020.
Mr W got the roof repaired and contacted Aviva again in January 2021. Aviva sent its 
contractor to the property. A cash settlement was put to Mr W of £702.89 but he wasnt 
happy with it, or that the contractor hadnt sent him a scope of works as had been agreed. 
He felt the visit by this contractor in January 2021, which was the third contractor visit 
overall, was an unnecessary inconvenience to him. He complained to this service on 
4 April 2021 about everything that had happened and during the course of his complaint he 
said Avivas delays had forced him to renew his policy with it.
Our investigator sought consent from Aviva to consider the aspects of Mr Ws complaint that 
related to activity which had occurred after its final response in October 2020. Aviva said it 
would allow us to consider Mr Ws concern that its cash settlement offer was too low. It then, 
in October 2021 said it would arrange to attend Mr Ws property and do the work, which 
Mr W, when this offer was made, was happy with. Our investigator explained she couldnt 
look at the other aspects of Mr Ws complaint which Aviva hadnt agreed to let us look into as 
they hadnt been raised with it. Mr W disagreed.
Regarding the delays and elements of poor claims handling which had occurred before 
Avivas October response, our investigator felt that £300 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. She also thought that Avivas decision on the storm and non-storm damage was 
fair and reasonable. So she wasnt minded to make Aviva do anything more.
Mr W maintained that £300 wasnt fair and reasonable. Regarding the storm damage he said 
he had evidenced the house wasnt damaged before the storm, and this has been a 
particularly bad storm, unusual in its intensity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy with events as they unfolded after Avivas final response 
of 5 October 2020. But as our investigator explained we cant consider new issues. We can 
only look at what happened up until the final response was issued. At the date the final 
response was issued I dont think either party foresaw that, after that point, the claim would 
continue as long as it did. And at the point of the final response, only two visits with 
contractors had taken place, with the policy renewal being more than two months away. 
Further with the third meeting having not yet taken place, the problem Mr W had with the 
contractor not sending him a copy of the scope of works as he reports it had agreed to do in 
that meeting, hadnt yet occurred. This happened between 13 and 19 January 2021. So 
Mr W having to renew his policy, the impact on him of the third visit and the failure at that 
time by the contractor to provide the scope of works, all post-date the October final 
response. As such, they arent issues I can consider within this complaint.  
The exception to this service not being able to consider matters that occur after a final 
response is issued, is where the business gives us consent to do so. Here Aviva only 
consented to us looking at the cash settlement sum  and that issue was resolved by Aviva 
agreeing to go out and do the work. I dont know how that issue progressed. But if Mr W has 
further concerns, he will have to make a new complaint. 
Turning to the damage in dispute, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably. Our 
investigator explained that in considering storm complaints where the insurer has declined 
cover, we usually ask three questions. And if the answer to any one question is no, then its 
most likely the complaint will fail as the insurers decline will be seen to have been fair and 
reasonable. There was a storm occurring at Mr Ws property at the time of the loss, so I only 
need to think about the second two questions  is the damage typical of that caused by a 
storm, and was the storm the main cause of the damage.  
A window in Mr Ws house had cracks across two panes of glass. I bear in mind that this 
isnt typical damage we see during storms, even those of unusual intensity. And I think Aviva 
makes a good point in this respect as it says that storm winds would be unlikely to move a 
pane to cause it to crack. I also bear in mind that Avivas report shows this cracking was 
present on internal, not external, panes. So I dont think it is damage typical of that caused 
by a storm. For completeness, I know Mr W has provided a photo of the house which he 
says shows the window wasnt damaged before the storm. The photo isnt dated and Im not 
convinced it shows the panes werent cracked as there is a strong reflection on the glass. 
But evidence of the glass intact before the storm, doesnt show the storm most likely caused 
the damage being claimed for. Mr W hasnt presented any expert evidence explaining how 
internal panes of glass might likely be cracked by a storm. And Im satisfied that for even a 
storm such as was in progress at Mr Ws property in February 2020, this is not the type of 
damage Id expect to see. I think Avivas decline of liability for this part of Mr Ws claim for 
storm damage was fair and reasonable. Similarly, plaster in a home wouldnt usually become cracked due to a storm, not where the 
storm didnt otherwise damage the exterior of the home. Ive seen no expert evidence that 
makes me think internal cracking like that at Mr Ws property is either typical of storm 
damage, or, in this case, has most likely been caused by the storm. I think Avivas decline of 
liability for this part of Mr Ws claim for storm damage was fair and reasonable.
Roofs can suffer damage during storms. But a flat roof spontaneously leaking without any 
overt signs of damage, such as ripping or lifting, isnt typical damage a storm would cause. 
I see from the photos Avivas contractor provided that the roof did have a lot of moss on it. 
And moss can sometimes conceal cracks in the roofs finishing layer. Just because there 
was no sign of water ingress before the storm, doesnt mean the storm caused the roof to be 
damaged such that it let water in. Rather its more likely, I think, that the storm highlighted 
the condition the roof was in. Previously the weather had not been bad enough to cause 
water to ingress into the property. But, as Mr W said, this storm was unusual in intensity. So 
the intensity of the storm, including the rain which came with it, caused water to ingress 
through the roof and damage the internals of the garage below. Without the storm the 
garage would have remained undamaged  which is why Aviva accepted the storm claim for 
the internal damage. But I can understand why it declined liability for fixing the roof  
I havent seen anything that makes me think the roof was damaged by the storm. 
This claim was delayed when the first contractor failed to progress it properly. Aviva tried to 
remedy that by appointing a new contractor, but further miscommunication then occurred 
which resulted in a delay between June and September. Aviva has acknowledged that in it 
having to appoint a second contractor, Mr W was caused to have to return to the property to 
liaise with the second contractor. It acknowledges that there was a failure to wear a mask 
and that the first contractor got the policy excess amount wrong. I accept those failures 
would have caused Mr W aggravation and inconvenience and I note Aviva has offered £300 
for this. I know Mr W thinks Aviva should pay more than this  he said £1,000 in the call he 
had with it in early October 2020. But, in the circumstances here, I think that would be an 
unfair and unreasonable award. From what Ive seen Mr Ws distress wasnt considerable, 
and his day to day life wasnt significantly and constantly impacted by the delays over the 
whole period (such that I sometimes see, for example, where a policyholder has had to live 
in a damaged home). Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable sum in the circumstances. Its 
also commensurate with other awards made by this service in similar circumstances. 
Putting things right
So my decision is that Aviva should pay Mr W the £300 previously offered as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience its failures caused him.
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £300. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
31 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman