DRN-3196683
The complaint
Mr H complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited trading as Mutual lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint about loans 5  8 in the table below. 
Mutual did not agree with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to partly 
uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 5  8 but I provided further reasoning. A copy of the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Following Mr Hs complaint Mutual issued its final response letter. Mutual outlined why it
didnt think it had made an error when it provided Mr H with 6 loans. These are the loans that
Mutual could see he had taken within the last six years (loans 3  8 in the table below).
Mr H had, in total eight home collected loans between November 2013 and February 2019.
Ive included some of the information weve received about the loans from Mutual in the table
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 23/11/2013 27/08/2014 51 £8.23
2 £500.00 21/06/2014 23/09/2015 51 £13.72
3 £500.00 04/07/2015 06/04/2016 51 £13.72
4 £1,000.00 02/04/2016 15/02/2017 51 £27.45
5 £1,000.00 04/03/2017 13/09/2017 51 £27.45
6 £1,000.00 19/09/2017 09/05/2018 51 £27.45
7 £1,500.00 12/05/2018 20/02/2019 51 £41.17
8 £2,000.00 23/02/2019 outstanding 102 £30.39
Mr H appears to have had problems repaying his final loan and based on the most recent
information this Service has received from Mutual an outstanding balance remains.
Following a review of the merits of the complaint, the adjudicator (who wasnt aware of loans
1 and 2 at the time) didnt think there was enough evidence to say Mutual was wrong to have
granted loans 3 and 4. But she thought the remaining four home collected loans (loans 5 to
8) shouldnt have been given because they were unsustainable for Mr H.
Mr H appears to agree with the adjudicators assessment.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response it provided a detailed
report which contained annexes and it also provided a copy of what appears to be the credit
report that Mutual carried out when it provided Mr Hs final loan. I want to reassure Mutual
that I have read and taken on board what it has told us, and what is in the report.
When Mr H referred his complaint to this Service, we made further enquires with Mutual who
at this point provided information about two further loans that were granted to Mr H in 2013
and 2014. But Mutual said this Service couldnt consider these loans, because in its view,
Mr H had made his complaint about them too late.
The adjudicator emailed Mr H who confirmed to this Service that he didnt want us to
investigate those loans. But, for completeness Ive included the two earlier loans in the loan
table above. And when referring to what has happened in this case, Ive used the loan
numbering from the table above.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Mr H doesnt want us to look at and make a finding about loans 1 and 2. These are the loans
that Mutual said it considered outside of this Services jurisdiction. Given this, Ive not fully
considered them, but I have kept them in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship Mr H had with Mutual.
As Mr H doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Mutual wasnt wrong
to lend loans 3 and 4, it seems that lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making
a finding about that lending it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did
anything wrong when it lent loans 5 to 8.
Mutual has had other decisions from us which detail our approach to complaints of this
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type
of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go
into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could
repay loans 5 to 8 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the point loans 5 to 8 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr H it
also says that the cost of these home credit loans is less than other home credit providers. It
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 5 to 8 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example,
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision
For the loans that Mutual considered to be in this Services jurisdiction it provided copies of
the credit agreements as well as provided copies of the application forms that were
completed by Mr H and the agent. Later on, Mutual also provided this Service with a copy of
the credit report it received when it was assessing Mr Hs final loan. So apart from the final
loan when we have a copy of the credit checks it seems that Mutual carried out the same
sort of checks for each loan that it approved for Mr H, and based on the checks Mutual
carried out it looks like Mr H wouldve been in a position to afford the repayments he was
committed to making.
But clearly, give how the long the lending relationship had gone for and there seemed to be
a pattern that the loan amounts were increasing, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for
Mutual to have relied on what it was being told by Mr H  indeed, for these loans that Im
looking at Mutual really needed to have gone further. It ought to have been verifying the
information it was being given about his income and expenditure  it couldve done this a
number of ways, it couldve for example asked Mr H for copies of bank statement or
evidence of his outgoings such as bills and payslips.However, I havent looked in any detail about whether proportionate checks for loans 5 to 8
would've shown Mutual that the loans were affordable for Mr H, because I dont consider it
necessary to do so. As, Ive explained above, Mutual had to consider whether the loans
were sustainable not just whether the loans were pound and pence affordable.
So, notwithstanding my concerns about the checks I consider Mutual ought to have carried
out Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mr H, I agree with
our adjudicator that Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because:
By loan 5 it was just over three years into the lending relationship with only a few
days where Mr H wasnt indebted to Mutual. In my view, Mr Hs loan history up until
this point was a clear indication that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to
be improving because he was returning for further funds;
Loan 5 was also Mr Hs joint largest loan to date, showing that he wasnt decreasing
his need for lending. Indeed, loan 8 was approved around two years later and was
the largest loan he borrowed.
The home collected loans showed a pattern of increasing borrowing over time. I think
its most likely this pattern of borrowing over the period showed that Mr H didnt just
have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting regular living
expenses or other financial commitments.
By loan 5 Mr H was making a commitment to make repayments for around another
year, its likely that his problems would continue, and he would need to borrow again
in the future (and this did happen with loans 6, 7 and 8);
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mutual. Loan 8 was
taken out over four years after Mr Hs first loan. And his weekly repayment was
nearly three times as much as the repayment for his first loan.
Mr Hs lending history was prolonged, suggesting his underlying financial situation
may even have deteriorated  which looks to be the case given the content of the
credit report Mutual has supplied. The amount of time that Mr H spent indebted to
Mutual meant that he was servicing a debt to Mutual over an extended period.
Finally, Mutual provided a copy of the credit check results that it obtained when the final loan
was granted. The results were provided following the adjudicators assessment. Looking at, I
do think there are signs of financial stress. While, he had only opened 1 new account in the
previous six months before the loan was approved, there was 13 active accounts.
In addition to this, there was evidence of fairly recent repayment problems, three of the 13
accounts had become delinquent within the last year and three accounts had defaulted
within the last 12 months. There is also an indication that Mr H was still seeking credit (given
the number of searches that have been recorded) but these searches dont appear to have
led to new loans being approved.
This information that Mutual had, along with the patter of lending ought to have led it to
conclude that Mr H couldnt sustainably take on these loans.
I think that Mr H lost out when Mutual provided loans 5 to 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and the time spent in debt was likely to have had negative
implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the
market for these high-cost loans.Ill go on to set out what Mutual should do to put things right.
Responses to the provisional decision 
Both Mr H and Mutual were asked to provide this Service with any further comments, 
information or evidence by no later than 2 December 2021. 
Mutual hasnt responded to the provisional decision despite being chased by the adjudicator, 
so no new comments have been provided. 
Mr H said he was happy to carry on with the decision made He also confirmed that he 
didnt have any further information for this Service to consider. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H nor Mutual has anything further for me to consider I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in the provisional decision. So, I still think Mutual was wrong to 
have approved loans 5  8 for the same reasons I previously explained. 
Ive set out below what Mutual needs to do in order to put things right.
 
Putting things right
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Mr Hs complaint.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr H loans 5 to 8 and it should take the following steps to put
things right:
It isnt clear whether Mutual has sold the outstanding balance due for loan 8 then it shouldtry and buy it back  if it is able to do so. If not, then Mutual should liaise with the new debt
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not
including anything you have already refunded.
B. Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr
H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans with a balance, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though
it had been repayments of the principal towards loan 8. If this results in Mr H having
made overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B
should be used to offset any balance remaining due for loan. If this results in a
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an
outstanding balance then Mutual should try and come to a mutually agreeable
repayment plan with Mr H. Id remind Mutual of its obligation to treat Mr H fairly and
with forbearance.
E. The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loans 5 - 8 means any information
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from
Mr Hs credit file. Mutual do not have to remove loan 8 from Mr Hs credit file until it
has been repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded
about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman