DRN-3654473
The complaint
Mr P complained that he wasnt informed by his broker Qmetric Group Limited (Qmetric) 
that his policy would automatically renew, and he didnt think the customer service provided 
was satisfactory.
What happened
Mr P bought a policy in 2020. A year later Mr P was informed by Qmetric that a payment was 
declined for his policy to renew automatically. Mr P raised a complaint as he said he wasnt 
aware of the auto-renewal and he thought it shouldve been pointed out to him when he 
bought his policy the year before. He said he wasnt aware Qmetric were keeping his 
payment details on record. Mr P decided to proceed in paying his premium and continue with 
the policy terms.
Qmetric said it doesnt specifically highlight the auto-renewal as part of its sales process, but 
the information is contained in both a pre-recorded terms and conditions message at the end 
of the sales and the policy documentation that was issued. However, it did offer Mr P £50 for 
its delay in sending a final response in relation to the complaint.
Mr P was unhappy with the level of customer service he was afforded when making a 
Subject Access Request (SAR). Qmetric said it had responded reasonably to Mr Ps 
requirements. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said Mr P had opportunity to be 
reasonably aware of the auto renewal on his policy and hadnt disabled it. He said as Mr P 
had chosen to subsequently renew his policy, he didnt think Mr P had suffered a financial 
loss. He thought Qmetric had acted reasonably to respond to the SAR, so didnt think there 
was evidence of poor customer service. Mr P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are entitled to auto-renew policies. So, as a broker Qmetric who sold and 
administered the policy can do this on behalf of the insurer. This means the policy will renew 
automatically without Mr P having to do anything. But Qmetric must have made it clear to Mr 
P when the policy was sold that this would happen. Qmetric could specifically ask this and 
obtain agreement, or it could outline this clearly in the policy terms. It must also be made 
clear again when the policy renews (because Mr P is unlikely to have remembered what they 
agreed to 12 months ago).
Mr P initially found the policy via a comparison website and called Qmetric to complete the 
sales process. Qmetric said During this conversation you did not request to be opted out of 
our automatic renewal process. There was no discussion around this topic on the sales call. 
I can confirm that it is not part of our process to explain the automatic renewal process on a 
sales call unless this is specifically queried by a customer. It is simply not feasible to discuss 
every term and condition of Policy Expert within a sales call, as this would make our calls 
very long. We do transfer our customers to a pre-recorded terms and conditions message at 
the end of every sales call, however in your case you disconnected the call before our 
representative was able to complete the transfer.
I can see Qmetric explained the auto renewal process is set out in its terms and conditions 
documentation. However, due to a vulnerability, Im not convinced Mr P wouldve seen this. I 
appreciate Qmetric have said Mr P disconnected the call before listening to the recorded 
terms and conditions, but I have to consider whether I think Qmetric did enough to signpost 
this key term and if they didnt then I need to consider what impact this had on Mr P.
Its unclear whether Mr P made Qmetric aware of his vulnerability on the sales call. If it was 
aware then I think it couldve set out this key term more clearly. However, Mr P wouldve 
known himself of his vulnerability, so I think he also had a responsibility to listen to the 
recorded version of the terms and conditions and he may have needed to ask for support 
with the policy documentation or for adjustments to be made.
In these circumstances I dont need to conclude whether the key terms were adequately 
signposted. This is because Mr Ps initial payment was declined and then Mr P chose to 
renew the policy on his own accord anyway. So, I dont think whats happened has caused 
Mr P any significant distress and he hasnt suffered any financial loss. So, I dont uphold this 
part of the complaint.
Mr P was unhappy with how Qmetric dealt with his SAR request. I have reviewed the 
timeline of events and how Qmetric responded to Mr P. Whilst the access to the files 
spanned several months. Qmetric have provided a detailed record of the communications 
that took place. I can see that Qmetric responded to Mr P in a timely manner each time. It 
provided Mr P with the information in various formats to try to accommodate the technology 
he had available at home to support him in accessing the available information. I can see 
once Qmetric were made aware of Mr Ps vulnerability it attempted to understand how it 
could support Mr P better and provide the information in a form he could assimilate. Qmetric 
explained how it sent passwords securely in the post to support Mr Ps requirements. 
Therefore, I cant see that Qmetric has acted unreasonably. I think it has tried to help Mr P 
based on the best information it had from him at the time. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
I see Qmetric has offered £50 in total for compensation  I have looked at this in the round 
and I think this is a fair offer for what has happened. Mr P is still able to accept this offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Qmetric Group Limited 
to do anymore
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman