DRN-2888292
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly declined his 
claim for theft under his motor insurance policy and for delays in the claim process.  
What happened
Mr C said his house was broken into and his car keys were stolen. He said he was in the 
house at the time and saw the thieves then steal his car. He reported the incident to the 
police and made a claim to Calpe under his policy. The police had no concerns with Mr Cs 
statement to them.
Mr Cs car was recovered, but due to its condition it was written off and the vehicle was 
given a pre-theft valuation of £11,000. Calpe reviewed the claim and decided to decline it. It 
said Mr C had not notified the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) or themselves of 
a medical condition when taking out his policy. Calpe also said they werent made aware that 
Mr C had been convicted of an offence. It said: If you had notified us of your medical 
condition at the inception of the policy, we would not have sold you the policy without 
confirmation that the condition has been reported to the DVLA and that you had been 
deemed fit to drive by them.
Calpe said: as we have acted in accordance with the terms of your policy and dealt with the 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner, we are unable to uphold your complaint.
Calpe also said Mr C needed to pay the storage costs for his car since it was recovered. Mr 
C didnt think this was fair.
Our investigator didnt receive all the information he requested from Calpe, so he wasnt able 
to confirm what details Calpe had for Mr C. He also couldnt confirm how the policy was 
purchased or arranged and couldnt confirm any of the policys terms and conditions. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt receive enough information from 
Calpe to support its decision to reject Mr Cs claim and for Calpes request that Mr C pays for 
the associated storage costs. He said Calpe should reconsider the claim and associated 
storage costs in line with the remaining policy terms. He didnt think Calpe had delayed the 
claim. As Calpe didnt respond to our investigators view, the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 17 May 2021. I said:
Mr C explained he purchased his policy through a broker, and he made them aware of his 
conviction that was on his licence. He also said, he wasnt aware of the need to notify the 
DVLA of his medical condition as his doctor hadnt advised him.
When an insurer doesnt pay a claim, my role is to see if its fairly declined the claim. When 
doing so Ill normally look at the circumstances, policy terms and industry guidelines such as 
ICOBS (Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook). 
It seems that Calpe rejected Mr Cs claim as it thought he hadnt complied with the terms of 
his policy. As Calpe has not provided our service with its terms or details of how the policy 
was arranged, I cant check this. So, I dont think its reasonable for it to decline the claim on 
this basis or for me to rely on its unsupported testimony. As it hasnt shared information to 
support its decision to decline the claim, I am minded to conclude it has been unfair in 
declining Mr Cs claim.
ICOBS, says that an insurer can only decline a consumer claim due to a breach of policy 
condition if its material to the loss. In this case, as Calpe havent provided the terms and 
conditions of the motor policy or details of how the policy was arranged, I havent been able 
to ascertain the exact reason or breach in the policy that it has declined the claim for. Also, 
Calpe can only decline the claim if it can show that Mr Cs medical condition was connected 
to the claim (or theft).
Calpe havent identified a connection between the medical condition and the claim, and I 
think its extremely unlikely that one exists. Therefore, using the guidance of ICOBS, I dont 
think its fair for Calpe not to pay the claim for this reason. Therefore, I intend to uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. I intend to require Calpe to settle Mr Cs claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. As Mr C hasnt had the use of the vehicle or 
the money due to him, I intend Calpe to pay simple interest on the claim amount at 8% per 
year from the date of the theft to the settlement date.
In respect to the storage costs that Mr C has been asked to pay in association with the 
claim. Calpe hasnt provided any information to justify why Mr C needs to pay these costs. 
As information has been requested from Calpe and hasnt been provided it is my intention to 
uphold this aspect of the complaint. I dont intend Calpe to be allowed to recover these costs 
from Mr C.
In respect to the delays Mr C has experienced. I reviewed the timeline of events for the claim 
and the validation activities Calpe has carried out. I can see part of this delay was caused by 
aspects outside of Calpes control, such as accessing the police report. Calpe tried to 
mitigate these delays by trying to access information in a different manner. I think its 
reasonable to expect the validation process to take some time and it is fair to give the insurer 
this time. Calpe have been able to provide a reasoned timeline of events. As there is 
evidence it has tried to speed up part of the process, I find it difficult to say Calpe has acted 
unfairly to Mr C in progressing the claim. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I didnt receive any responses to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. For the reasons I have given I require Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited to:Settle Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay interest* on the claim amount at 8% per year from the date of the theft to the 
settlement date.
Not be allowed to recover the costs of associated storage for the claim.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Calpe Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Calpe must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr C asks 
for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman