DRN-3484518
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) didnt allow him any Covid 
payment holidays, that they didnt promptly inform him of the default on his account and that 
they didnt deal with his complaint adequately.
What happened
Mr C had a Barclaycard and had fallen behind on his repayments in November 2019.
Barclaycard provided support to Mr C in the form of interest and charges being frozen, but 
Mr C remained unable to catch up with his payments. Mr Cs account ended up being closed 
and a default was registered with the credit reference agencies.
Mr C says thats unfair, and that he should have been afforded payment holidays due to the 
impact of Covid. He also complained that hed only found out of the default by chance later, 
not at the time it was applied. And he says Barclaycard didnt send him their final response 
letter on time.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They said Mr C didnt qualify for the Covid 
payment holidays because they had been brought in for people affected by the pandemic 
and lockdown measures. The investigator said Mr C had been in financial difficulty before 
then, and so he wasnt entitled to the additional support that had been brought in.
Mr C didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I wont be upholding his complaint. That isnt to say I dont 
have sympathy for his situation, but what I need to decide is whether Barclaycard shouldve 
given him a Covid payment deferral. My view is that they didnt have to do so.
The reason I say that is because Mr C had been in financial difficulty for some time already. 
It wasnt brought about by the pandemic, rather his inability to maintain repayments anymore 
coincided with it.
The FCAs guidance said that where a customer was already in financial difficulty, their
existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC (the Consumer Credit sourcebook) would
apply. I believe that in freezing charges and interest on the account, Barclaycard achieved 
that. I appreciate Mr Cs situation would have become worse due to the lockdown measures 
 particularly bearing in mind his profession  but I consider Barclaycard to have acted fairly 
with the measures they put in place.
Their contact notes and letters show that they were sensitive to Mr Cs circumstances, that 
they offered signposting to debt charities and that they provided adequate notice of 
defaulting the account. They also show that Mr C turned down signposting and that when he 
was on the phone to Barclaycard he would sometimes hang up before the conversation was 
complete.
Overall, I dont agree that Mr C was treated unfairly by Barclaycard. They gave appropriate 
support in the circumstances. And while I appreciate they may not have issued a final 
response in the required timescales, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. Further, I 
dont consider that to have made a difference to the matter overall because once the time to 
respond has expired a consumer can bring their case to us regardless.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman