DRN-3868157
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd trading as Claiming 
Made Simple (CMS) are asking for a fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim 
theyve already paid to another claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H said theyd instructed a CMC, Ill call F to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim on 
their behalf. In October 2020 their claim was successful, and they were awarded 
compensation by their lender. Shortly after F invoiced them to pay their success fee which 
Mrs H and Mr H said they paid. But in the same month Mrs H and Mr H were asked by CMS 
to pay them a success fee for the same PPI claim. Mrs H and Mr H said theyd only worked 
with F, and their lender had confirmed theyd only accepted F as being authorised by 
them. Mrs H and Mr H also said that their lender told them that theyd informed CMS in 
September 2020 that they were dealing with another CMC. They complained to CMS.
Mrs H and Mr H said CMS continued to ask them to pay their fee and that theyd be taken to 
court for collection of non-payment. They referred their complaint to us.
CMC didnt respond to our investigators requests for information. He said Mrs H and Mr H 
had shown evidence from their lender that theyd dealt with the other CMC in deciding Mrs H 
and Mr Hs mis-sold PPI claim. He said as the claim was successful because of the action of 
the other CMC it wasnt fair or reasonable for CMS to ask Mrs H and Mr H to pay their fee. 
As their fee wasnt justified, he said CMS should waive their fee.
CMS didnt respond so Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I will reach my decision based on 
what I think most likely happened. The crux of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is that both CMCs F 
and CMS say it was they whod been authorised to make a mis-sold PPI claim on behalf of Mrs H 
and Mr H. And that the success of the claim was because of their submission. So, I need to 
decide which CMC I think initiated the successful mis-sold PPI claim.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Its unfortunate that CMS havent responded to our requests for information so 
the evidence Ive considered is limited to that provided by Mrs H and Mr H and their lender.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline it was expected that a high 
volume of mis-sold PPI claims would be received. So, for some lenders the submission of a letter 
of authority (LoA) was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was 
needed for the lender to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim . But for others a letter of complaint 
was required with supporting information such as a PPI questionnaire. Any claim received after 
the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt be accepted by the lender(s) unless there were 
exceptional circumstances for doing so.
The agreement Mrs H and Mr H would have had with a CMC they instructed would have 
been on a No win No fee basis. This means the CMC charged a percentage success fee, 
not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This meant any work done on any 
unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was successful, the CMCs fee 
maybe more or less than the value of the work they did. This is the risk taken by all parties in 
this type of agreement. 
Mrs H and Mr H has shown they signed a LoA with F and completed a PPI questionnaire. I can 
also see that their lender told them their PPI claim was successful in October 2020. The CMC  
referenced on this notification was F, not CMS. And I can see that following this notification  
Mrs H and Mr H paid F their fee for the successful claim.
But I have also seen that the lender on the same day told CMS that Mrs H and Mr Hs mis-sold 
PPI claim was successful. So, I think Mrs H and Mr H had authorised two CMCs to act for them. 
The lender has confirmed to us that the mis-sold PPI claim was set up following a request from 
F. And that in September 2020 they told CMS following an enquiry from them that the claim had 
been resolved by another CMC prior to their contact. But acknowledged due to the volume of 
information theyd received following the deadline for making such claims a final response had 
been inadvertently sent to CMS.
I havent seen any evidence to show that CMS submitted Mrs H and Mr Hs mis-sold PPI claim to 
their lender before F. But Mrs H and Mr H s lender has clearly noted Fs reference in their 
final response letter to Mrs H and Mr H. And that it was their submission that meant the mis-sold 
PPI claim was successful. Im also persuaded by Mrs H and Mr Hs testimony that theyd only 
dealt with F during the course of their mis-sold PPI claim being investigated. 
So, Im satisfied the lender accepted F as being authorised by Mrs H and Mr H to act for them 
in their mis-sold PPI claim. As I think Mrs H and Mr Hs claim was successful because of the 
submission made by F. I dont think CMS can justify their fee as the claim wasnt successful 
because of what they did. 
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for CMS to ask Mrs H and Mr H to pay their fee or any 
subsequent charges that theyve added to Mrs H and Mr Hs account.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd trading as Claiming 
Made Simple  to waive any and all fees for Mrs H and Mr Hs mis-sold PPI claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman