DRN-4075645
The complaint
Ms D complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as 
WeLendUs (FOL) mis-sold her a loan in 2022. 
Ms D also complains about the management of her account 
and the details are set out later in this decision. 
She is also not satisfied as to the way that the loan history has 
been recorded on her credit file and wants it amending. 
What happened
Ms D applied for a loan in June 2022 that was not proceeded 
with or not completed. Ms D looked at her on-line account for 
FOL and it showed as rejected together with a note that said, 
loan not taken. Ms D is irritated by that and it forms part of her 
complaint.
On what looks to have been the same day, 3 June 2022, a 
further loan was applied for and approved. Ms D claims that 
this was lent to her irresponsibly and Ill come back to this in the 
main part of the decision.
The loan was for £300, repayable in four instalments of £146 
each and would have been arranged by Continuous Payment 
Authority (CPA). FOL has sent us screenshots of records to 
show Ms D inputting her card details. 
The scheduled dates to repay the loan were 30 June 2022, 
30 July 2022, 30 August 2022 and 30 September 2022. 
FOL has explained to us that as the four instalments were set 
then the CPA payments would have been set for those dates 
as well and not beyond 30 September 2022. Ill come back to 
this as it may answer one of Ms Ds complaint points. 
Ms D says that before the first loan instalment she realised 
shed not be able to afford the loan and so tried to cancel it. 
Ms D has several elements of her complaint including the 
administration of her account I list them all here:
Difficulty getting to talk to a person at FOL
Difficulty finding additional numbers over and above the 
FOL ones shed been given
Calls missed and no return calls made to her by FOL
Failing to cancel the loan because of all these 
communication difficulties
Ms D required special access and/or assistance when 
using the website and it was not right for her
When she did talk to a representative from FOL she has 
described being talked down to by that representative 
and not being listened to
Ms D was due to repay the loan on 28 July 2022, she had 
requested that it be delayed to 29 July 2022 and then she 
herself used the FOL on-line account to move it again to 
2 August 2022. However, FOL attempted to take the 
money out of her account on the original payment date
Ms D didnt have a copy of the loan agreement 
A late payment has been recorded against her name in 
relation to this loan which she says is wrong, because it 
was arranged to be paid later and so it was not late, but it 
was a new arrangement
Ms D is not content that she had asked FOL about the 
daily interest figures and did not get them. She had also 
asked about the amount it would be to pay it all off in 
July 2022 and did not get that figure from FOL either. 
She did however get the settlement figure if she had 
wanted to pay it all off at the end of June 2022. That was 
sent to her in an email. Ms D has said that she wants compensation for FOL tying me 
to this loan. Ms Ds additional explanation on this point was 
that she felt that she would not be paying interest on it if the 
FOL phone lines had been better serviced and had been 
answered and if her cancellation query had been dealt with in 
the first 14 days. 
During the life of the complaint with FOL and then when it was 
with the Financial Ombudsman Service, an additional complaint 
point came up. This was that FOL had not taken a payment in 
November 2022 as she had fully expected it would be taken 
and the failure had led to her receiving an FOL letter of arrears 
which she has said was a deliberate attempt to tarnish her 
credit file. Ill come back to this. 
What happened after Ms D had complained? 
FOL had issued Ms D with a final response letter (FRL) on 
1 September 2022 in which it did concede that there had been 
two unanswered calls and it had not called her back. Most of 
the other points that Ms D had raised with it, FOL did not 
accept it had done anything wrong. 
Ms D referred her complaints to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on 14 September 2022. 
Our adjudicator looked into it all and her view was that FOL had 
not lent to her irresponsibly. Our adjudicator took time to 
respond to almost all the points Ms D had raised. Our 
adjudicator did not think that FOL had done anything wrong. 
Ms D was not content. Ms D listed additional points and others 
that she considered our adjudicator had not answered for her. 
So, our adjudicator sought new information from FOL, some of 
which helped to answer Ms Ds points. Our adjudicator issued a 
second view.
Still not content Ms D asked for it to be referred to an 
ombudsman. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to 
decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms D has made so many complaint points then Ive taken 
time to identify each one and I have sub-divided my decision 
into headings. Ive done this to make it as clear as possible and 
to demonstrate that Ive answered each one. 
I have listened to the telephone call between Ms D and one of 
our adjudicators on 20 December 2022 and I was sorry to learn 
of her treatment which is ongoing. I hope that matters have 
improved for her. 
Irresponsible lending
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on 
our website. 
FOL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not 
lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
include several different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But 
certain factors might point to the fact that FOL should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:having a low income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any loan repayments to a given loan 
amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting 
that it could be more difficult to meet a higher repayment 
from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had 
been repaid (also suggestive of the borrowing becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending 
was unsustainable but as Ms D took one loan only then this is 
not applicable to Ms Ds situation. 
FOL was required to establish whether Ms D could sustainably 
repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay 
without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower will not be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further to 
do that.I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and 
information provided in this context and what this all means for 
Ms Ds complaint.
For a new customer and for a relatively modest loan amount of 
£300 then I consider that FOL was entitled to rely on the 
information Ms D had given to it as part of her application. It 
seems that Ms D has said she may have gone through a 
broker. 
Either way, FOLs information was that Ms Ds net monthly 
income from her full time employment was £2,000. It carried out 
a credit reference agency verification of that to indicate that the 
amount Ms D took home each month was about what she had 
declared. 
Ms D told FOL that she was a tenant, it had her marital status 
and that her rent was £550 a month. She indicated that her 
travel costs were £60, bills were £120, leisure costs £120, food 
and drinks £100 and her commitment to other debt was £200 a 
month. I consider that the food and drinks cost likely to have 
been too small to have been a reasonable figure but even if 
FOL had increased that threefold still I think that the figures 
show Ms D was able to afford the loan.
 
FOL carried out checks Id consider were proportionate. It was 
not a requirement to carry out a credit search, and for a £300 
loan as a new customer Id not have expected FOL to obtain 
one. 
I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint about irresponsible lending. 
other complaint points 
The rejected loan on her FOL on-line accountFOL has explained this and it seems that Ms D had made 
another loan application which was not completed. The 
language of rejected is possibly unfortunate but I cannot see 
that this has had any effect on Ms Ds overall credit record or in 
any other way apart from showing on her on-line FOL account. 
And I do not consider that FOL has done anything wrong here. 
I do not uphold this part of the complaint. 
Calls to FOL 
Ms D has described her complaint points as:
difficulty getting to talk to a person at FOL
difficulty finding additional numbers over and above the 
FOL ones shed been given
calls missed and no return of calls made to her by FOL
failing to cancel the loan because of all these 
communication difficulties
Ms D has said that she wants compensation for FOL tying 
me to this loan. Ms Ds additional explanation on this point 
was that she felt that she would not be paying interest on 
it if the FOL phone lines had been better serviced and 
answered and if her cancellation query had been dealt 
with in the first 14 days.
FOL has conceded in its FRL  before the complaint was 
referred to us - that it did not deal well with these missed calls 
from Ms D but its explanation of low staff numbers is a 
reasonable one. 
And I do add that it seems a conversation did take place 
between a FOL representative and Ms D on 29 June 2022 as 
evidenced by the two emails sent to her. 
So, it may have been one missed call that was not returned 
which I consider was a relatively minor transgression by FOL. It 
explained that it was short-staffed and thats not an 
unreasonable explanation.I do not accept Ms Ds suggestion that shes been tied to the 
loan and this was due to FOLs failure to take a couple of her 
calls. The email Ms D has sent to us indicating she had been in 
contact with the FCA about contacting FOL was 29 June 2022. 
The FOL screenshots provided to us to show the missed calls 
from Ms D were 28 June 2022 and 25 July 2022. 
All these dates were beyond the cancellation period of within 
14 days of the loan agreement start date of 3 June 2022. So 
even if she had made contact then it would not have been 
effective as a cancellation notification as it would have been too 
late.
Also, in relation to the calls, Ms D has said that when she did 
talk to a representative from FOL she has described being 
talked down to by that representative and not being listened to. 
We have asked FOL for call recordings and none have been 
provided due to the passage of time and so I am not able to 
make any findings on this point. I do not find it unreasonable 
that FOL does not keep call recordings beyond six months. 
I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint about this part. 
29 June 2022 conversation and follow-up emails
It seems that Ms D did speak to a representative of FOL on 
29 June 2022 as its two emails to her on the same day show 
that contact had been made, conversations had taken place 
and steps had been taken to put things in place for Ms D. 
The first email said:
Good morning
Following on from your telephone conversation this 
morning, we wanted to notify you that should you wish to 
repay your loan in full today, the amount to repay is 
£362.40,
Please note, the amount changes daily as the interest 
accrues. You can make the payment by logging into your 
Fund Ourselves account online, by calling our customer 
services team on 0800 368 9553 where they can take the payment over the phone or by BAGS transfer (please let 
us know if you would like these details).
And the second email in time on that same day said: 
Further to your telephone conversation, we wanted to let 
you know that we have postponed the payment due 
tomorrow by 30 days.
However, we understand that you are going to repay the 
loan in full on 28 July 2022. Please contact us if you have 
any trouble making this repayment.
The reference to payment due tomorrow would have been the 
30 June 2022 instalment. The records from FOL tell me that the 
30 June 2022 payment was not made. I accept that an 
arrangement had been made between Ms D and FOL that it 
was going to be paid later  on 28 July 2022. 
And so, any day after 30 June 2022 where the loan instalment 
due to have been paid on 30 June 2022 was not paid would 
correctly be noted and subsequently show as a late payment. 
I note that Ms Ds concern seems to have been in relation to 
the on-line FOL account note Late, not paid. I have not seen a 
copy of Ms Ds credit file record so I can make no finding on 
that. 
Even where a conversation took place in June 2022 for the 
June 2022 payment to be delayed and paid in July 2022, that 
would still count as a late payment. A formal arrangement to 
pay is different and often arises when a customer cannot afford 
to pay the loan off. Usually, it requires income and expenditure 
forms to be completed and for the formal arrangement to be 
agreed by FOL. Pushing it back by a month is not usually what 
Id consider a formal arrangement to pay. 
And even if a formal arrangement to pay had been made  this 
would still show on Ms Ds credit file as an adverse record. 
So, whether it showed as a late payment or as an arrangement 
to pay (which I do not think it was) then still FOL would have 
accurately reported it. The records also show me, as FOL has explained in its FRL, 
that the sum taken from Ms Ds account on 29 July 2022 was 
the late June 2022 sum. So, although Ms D had tried to move it 
to the 2 August 2022 an instalment on 29 July 2022 was taken. 
The instalment originally scheduled for 29 July 2022 was paid 
on 30 August 2022.
I do not consider that FOL did anything wrong here. It followed 
Ms Ds oral and earlier instructions. And as Ms D owed it 
money then for the CPA to be activated and for FOL to take the 
payment was nothing I can criticise FOL for. 
I do not uphold this part of the complaint. 
Early settlement arrangements
Ms Ds second instalment was due at end of July 2022 and she 
told FOL in the June 2022 telephone call that she planned to 
repay the whole loan on 28 July 2022. Ms D had requested that 
the June 2022 instalment be delayed to 29 July 2022 and then 
she was going to pay it all. Then Ms D herself used the website 
on-line account to move the payment date again to 2 August 
2022. 
However, Ms D complains that FOL attempted to take the 
money out of her account on the original payment date in late 
July 2022. 
In Ms Ds complaint email to FOL dated 11 August 2022, Ms D 
describes this event and she uses the phrase 
I moved it to the 2nd of August hoping that you would 
contact me, since you are unreachable. 
My view is that Ms D thought that this was something that might 
not work as she used the phrase hoping that you would 
contact me. And 29 July 2022 was a Friday and 2 August 
2022 was the following Tuesday. 
I do not think it reasonable that Ms D considered that an on-line 
alteration like that, unilaterally done, over a weekend, would 
likely have resulted in a successful payment date change. And 
having discussed the first change in her payment schedule, moving it from the end June 2022 to end July 2022 on the 
telephone and then getting an email from FOL to confirm it 
I think that Ms D knew the system to change a payment date. 
And unilaterally altering it on the FOL on-line account was not 
likely to have been the best way forward. 
So, I do not accept this part of her complaint.
Ms D has explained she asked about the amount it would be to 
pay it all off in July 2022 and did not get that figure from FOL 
either.
In relation to Ms Ds request that she was given the full amount 
to pay figure so that she could pay it off at the end of July 2022, 
I have asked FOL about this and I remain unclear as to why 
FOL did not give her the July 2022 payment so that she could 
pay it all off. But it did offer her the route to take to pay off the 
loan and if Ms D had wanted to pay it off she could have done. 
FOL gave her the amount to pay off if she had wanted to do it 
that day  29 June 2022  and went on to say this in the email 
from FOL to her of that same date: 
Please note, the amount changes daily as the interest 
accrues. You can make the payment by logging into your 
Fund Ourselves account online, by calling our customer 
services team on 0800 368 9553 where they can take the 
payment over the phone or by BAGS transfer (please let 
us know if you would like these details).
And so, what I do think FOL did was give Ms D several ways 
she could have paid off the loan. And I fully realise that Ms D 
has said shes had difficulty getting through to FOL, but Ive 
dealt with that part of her complaint. I dont think its an 
unreasonable explanation that it was short staffed. 
And as for the website, I appreciate that Ms D says she has 
found the website difficult to use but FOL did not know that and 
as Ive dealt with that part of Ms Ds complaint  accessibility  
later on in the decision, so I refer Ms D to that. If Ms D had wanted to pay off the loan in full at the end of 
July 2022 then I think it was feasible, one way or another. FOL 
offered more than one way to do so. And blaming FOL for not 
giving her the figure was inconvenient but not something that 
prevented her from paying off sums to get the debt paid down. 
So, I do not accept that FOLs failure in June 2022 to give Ms D 
an early settlement figure for a month hence was wrong. 
Daily interest
Ms D is not content that she had asked FOL about the daily 
interest figures and did not get them. This was answered in the 
FRL which was issued during the life of the loan. I do think that 
Ms D had the information in the loan agreement initially and 
then got her answer in the FRL so I do not consider FOL has 
failed to do something in relation to the interest. 
The FRL went into further detail about the APR and daily 
interest on the loan  which Ms D would have had to have 
signed. I have duplicated here what it said: 
An explanation of the APR and Interest Rate is shown in 
clause 3 "Key Loan Terms" of the loan agreement.
A further explanation of the interest is shown in clause 6 
"Interest" of the loan agreement.
The amount of interest that accrues daily is shown in 
clause 13 of the loan agreement:
13.6 The Borrower must pay interest accrued from the day 
the credit was provided to the day it is repaid.
Such interest will be calculated at the interest rate under 
this agreement. The amount of interest that will accrue per 
day is £2.4.
So, I do consider that Ms D had the information to hand in the 
original loan agreement copy, from the website and from the 
FRL which was sent to her while she still was paying down the 
loan. I do not uphold this part of the complaint. 
Accessibility needsMs D says she required special access and/or assistance when 
using the website and it was not right for her. She has also 
said:
One of my needs is being able to access information in 
large print. Despite explaining my needs in the first 
telephone call to Fundourselves, they kept sending me 
letters in the wrong format.
This has caused me a lot of distress and had caused me 
embarrassment when I had to ask people to read the 
content of their letters. They must apologise for this.
FOL has replied to our enquiries about this  it was unaware at 
the time Ms D has told us she was struggling with the use of 
the website that any special considerations needed to be made 
for her in relation to that or any communications to Ms D. 
I have reviewed the information I have and it cant be right that 
FOL would have been expected to make reasonable 
adjustments for Ms D unless she had told them of that need. 
And Ive no evidence of this. 
Ms D says that she would have mentioned these needs and 
special considerations on the 29 June 2022 telephone call. But 
when asked about this, FOL has said that the adjudicators 
query on this in April 2023 was the first it had heard of her need 
for letters to be in large print. 
Ms D has not told us that she needs her letters to be in large 
print but we will action that at the Financial Ombudsman 
Service having learned that information during this complaint.
If Ms Ds complaint about FOL is more general, along the lines 
of the efficaciousness and user friendly features (or lack of 
them) of the FOL website in general then that is not something 
we would look into. 
I do not uphold this part of her complaint. 
Copy of the loan agreement
Ms D has said she had no copy of the loan agreement.FOL has explained in its FRL that Ms D would have had a copy 
when she signed it. 
FOL also explained in its FRL how a customer could obtain a 
copy of the loan agreement on the website. But it is not 
something I can take further. I dont consider FOL did anything 
wrong here. 
November/December 2022 and paying down the loan and the 
CPA
Later in the complaint process, Ms D also raised this point 
about a failure by FOL to take a payment for the full amount in 
November or December 2022 which she says she was 
expecting it to do. The failure had led to her receiving a FOL 
letter of arrears which she has said was a deliberate attempt to 
tarnish her credit file. 
On 20 December 2022 Ms D informed us :
I received a letter this afternoon from Fundourselves, the 
organisation I complained to you about in September, 
stating that I was in arrears.
This came as a surprise to me because they take their 
money from my card, which was set up on the account 
and took money from there in October. I wonder why they 
didnt not take the balance they claim I owe and did not 
inform me that the account was in arrears until today.
I have seen a copy of that arrears letter saying that on 
13 December 2022 she owed it £160.80. 
I have seen that a payment to FOL registered as a transaction 
on her bank account on 3 October 2022  this is evidence Ms D 
has sent to us. And its likely that may have been noted as 
3 October 2022 on the bank account record as 30 September 
2022 was a Friday and 3 October 2022 was a Monday. 
Sometimes transactions register in the bank account after a 
weekend. 
I have asked FOL about the CPA (Continuous Payment 
Authority) and it says it was not cancelled at its end. A CPA is 
not a Direct Debit. Ms D telephoned in December 2022 and spoke to one of our 
adjudicators and I have listened to that call. Ms D on the 
telephone with our adjudicator was very concerned as shed 
received a letter of arrears from FOL. She says that she had 
set up the Direct Debit from the start and FOL had been taking 
the money when it had needed to and so she was questioning 
why it was that FOL had not taken the rest. Now she was in 
arrears. 
Ms D was mistaken as it was a CPA that had been set up and 
not a Direct Debit. 
I have asked FOL about all this payment issue and it has 
explained that:
Our loan agreement confirms that loan repayments are 
set up via CPA. Our loan agreement states:
7.2.2 under the Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) 
based on the consent given by the Borrower, before 
signing the loan agreement, which authorises the 
Creditor to collect the amount from the Borrowers 
bank account using the debit card details provided by 
the Borrower as per the agreed repayment schedule;
FOL has assisted in detail here. It has explained that the CPA 
arrangement is that it can only re-attempt to collect a payment 
after a failed payment twice and within 35 days. It has 
explained that instalment 3 for £146.40 was taken by CPA on 
30 September 2022. And as the fourth instalment was also due 
on that date  30 September 2022, it seems that it tried to take 
that too. 
FOL has sent us records that payment for that fourth scheduled 
instalment failed twice due to insufficient funds. 
So, after that it could not try again. Ms D did not pay the final 
instalment. Hence the arrears letter sent to her. 
I do not uphold this part of the complaint. And I reject any 
suggestion that this was a deliberate attempt by FOL to tarnish 
Ms Ds credit file. The change in amount for the last payment 
Ms D has asked why was the last payment £160.80 not the 
usual £146.40. 
FOLs explanation is reasonable and not unexpected. It said to 
us that the additional £14.40 was late payment interest. 
FOL has told me that its loan agreement states at clause 16:
16.1  Missing payments can have severe consequences. 
The Borrower will be charged late payment interest and 
the missed payments will be reported to credit reference 
agencies. 
This answers Ms Ds query and explains the additional charge. 
Thats not unusual or unreasonable. 
Ms Ds credit file 
Ms D wants the credit file information to be amended to reflect 
the accuracy of the situation  remove reference to late 
payments because she had made arrangements to alter the 
payment dates.
Ive no information from Ms D to demonstrate to me what her 
credit file says. And so, without this I do not know what it is that 
she says has been reported inaccurately bearing in mind the 
progress of the repayments since June 2022. 
FOL has informed me that late payment markers will have been 
reported as all four instalments were repaid late, because the 
terms of the credit agreement hadnt been met. The only way to 
have prevented any adverse markings was for Ms D to have 
repaid the loan in line with the payment schedule in the 
agreement. 
Given that FOL must report to the credit reference agencies an 
accurate reflection of the conduct of the account, late payment 
markers recorded wouldnt appear to have been unreasonable.
I do not uphold the complaint about the credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman