DRN-3950663
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) recorded a default on her credit file. 
She thinks this was unfair as she did not receive any letters about this and thinks this could 
have been avoided if BOS had used alternative means of contacting her. 
What happened
Miss V held a bank account with BOS with an overdraft limit of £1,150. Miss V went over her 
overdraft limit and following letters asking her to get in touch about this in July 2020 BOS 
sent Miss V a final demand letter to her last known address giving her 30 days notice that it 
is was going to close her account unless the outstanding balance was settled.  Following no 
response Miss Vs account was closed and a default was recorded on her credit file in 
August 2020. 
Miss V complained to BOS that she received no notification or letters regarding the default. 
BOS said it wrote to the address on file and that the account was closed and the default 
applied correctly. BOS records show that Miss V didnt update her address until April 2021, 
months after her account was closed 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Vs concerns and reached the conclusion that BOS 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Miss V fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Miss V disagreed she says its unfair a default was recorded on her credit file when she 
didnt receive the letters about it and that she wasnt allowed to set up a payment plan. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss V has experienced and see if BOS has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss V back in the position she wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
Miss Vs main complaint point is that it was unfair BOS registered a default on her credit file. 
So the question I have to ask is whether BOS did anything wrong in closing Miss Vs
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing her account 
and registering a default when she didnt pay back the outstanding balance of her overdraft 
in the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that BOS acted unfairly when 
it closed Miss Vs account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see that 
BOS sent at least three letters to the address it had registered for Miss V notifying her that 
her account was in arrears and what was to happen to her account if no action was taken. 
Miss V never received these letters because her address had changed and Miss V didnt 
update this until after the account was closed. Miss V says that BOS shouldve done more to 
contact her. I accept and sympathise with Miss V that during the period in question it was a 
difficult time for her being made redundant and having to shield during the pandemic. But I 
cant see that Miss V ever got in touch with BOS to inform it of her circumstances. 
BOSs records show that it had no contact from Miss V until after the account was closed - 
following which she updated her address - and that even the contact number it held for her 
was out of date. 
As Im sure Miss V is aware having a bank account comes with responsibilities one of which 
is keeping your contact details with the bank up to date. But even without receiving all the 
letters from BOS about her account I think Miss V was aware of what her overdraft limit was 
and that she had reached it. Miss Vs bank statements show she wasnt using the account 
as far back as August 2019 as she was at the top of her overdraft limit. So I think Miss V 
wouldve been aware of the status of her account and that she needed to get in touch with 
BOS  which she didnt do.
The outstanding balance on her overdraft was a debt due to BOS and it was entitled to 
collect this. So, providing BOS followed the correct processes (and from what I can see it 
did) I cant say it did anything wrong in closing the account and registering a default. And I 
dont think the difficulties BOS had in getting in contact with Miss V were due to mistakes 
made on BOSs part. 
Furthermore, I dont think BOS did anything wrong in recording a default on Miss Vs credit 
file  BOS has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate 
reflection about what happened.
 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think BOS treated Miss V unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman