DRN-3109867
The complaint
Ms B says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms B took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of her borrowing follows.
Ms B says Loans 2 Go gave her loans she couldnt afford, and she wasnt told how much
she would be paying back in total.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. She said the credit checks Loan 2 Go
carried out were proportionate. But they showed Ms B was already using a significant
amount of her monthly income to repay her existing credit commitments; had a number of
historic defaults; and her situation had worsened by the time she applied for loan 2. So the
lender ought to have realised there was a risk these loans would not be sustainably
affordable for Ms B.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying Ms Bs credit report showed she was either up-to-date with, or
had settled, her debts. It said the defaults were old so should not be a reason to decline her
applications. And her bank statements showed no evidence of financial duress.
It asked for an ombudsman to review the case. I reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator, so I issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final 
decision). I asked for the parties to provide any comments or new information by 20 October 
2021. Both parties responded before this deadline so I can now issue a final decision. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Ms B before it approved the loans. It
and asked for details of her monthly income and expenditure. It asked for copies of recent
bank statements and used these to verify her income. It also checked her credit file to
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. From these checks
combined Loans 2 Go concluded Ms B had enough monthly disposable income to afford to
repay the loans.
Our investigator concluded whilst the checks were proportionate they showed that at the
time of loan 1 Ms B was already spending more than half her income to repay her existing
credit commitments. This, combined with her credit file that showed multiple historic defaults,
led her to conclude the lender ought to have realised it was unlikely the loan would be
sustainably affordable. And she said Ms Bs financial situation looked to have worsened by
the time she applied for loan 2 so that was also an unfair lending decision.
I have made different findings and reached a different conclusion in part. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
I agree the checks were proportionate, but I dont think the information the lender gathered
should have led it to decline Ms Bs application. She had a relatively low level of debt at the
time (£1324) across 15 active accounts with a single default in the last three years. She had
been consistently up-to-date with payments in recent months. The investigator referenced a
number of historic defaults, but they were largely over four years ago in 2012 and 2013. I
note Ms B had been subject to a debt relief order in January 2013, so the lender needed to
consider this  but given her more recent credit history and the value of the loan and monthly
repayments I dont think it would have been fair to decline her application because of it.
Our investigator was concerned that Ms B was paying around half of her income to maintain
her credit commitments, but it seems she only considered Ms Bs salary and not her tax
credits and child benefits. Given the nature of these payments it is reasonable - and in line
with regulatory guidance - for the lender to consider these as part of her monthly income.
They make a significant difference, increasing Ms Bs income from her average monthly
salary of £650 to total incomings of around £1600. This means her existing credit
commitments were not such a significant proportion of her income that I think the lender
ought to have been concerned she wouldnt be able to sustainably repay an additional loan.
It follows I find that Loans 2 Go wasnt wrong to give loan 1 to Ms B.
Loan 2
Again, I agree the checks were proportionate. But on this occasion I think some of the
information gathered ought to have led Loans 2 Go to make a different lending decision.
Ms B applied for loan 2 only four months after taking out loan 1. I cant see Loans 2 Go
asked what the purpose of the loan was. It could see from its credit check that Ms Bs
indebtedness had increased nearly threefold in that short space of time to £3693. And it
could see she had taken out three new home credit agreements in that time.
Whilst she remained up-to-date with her payments at this stage, I think Loans 2 Go ought to
have been concerned she was now borrowing just to repay other high-cost debt and was
likely getting into a spiral of debt. It knew from her bank statements that she was close to
running out of money at the end of most weeks in July 2017 and so it ought to have realised
there was a high risk that Ms B would not be able to repay this new loan sustainably. And
this is what it need to check under CONC 5.3.1 (G) which stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
As I referenced earlier, the lender knew from its credit checks that Ms B had struggled
financially a number of years ago, and I think by this point there were enough warning signs
that she may be at risk of heading into financial difficulties again. It follows I think Loans 2
Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Ms B.Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. Ms B says she wasnt told how much show would have to repay. But I
have looked at the pre-contract credit information and the loan agreements Ms B signed
before she received the money. These set out the monthly repayments and the total
repayable, as well as the interest rate and annual percentage rate (APR). So I cant agree
that Loans 2 Go didnt make clear how much she would need to repay.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to put things right regarding the second loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
Loans 2 Go responded to the provisional decision saying it accepted my findings. Ms B 
responded confirming she had no new information to provide.
As neither party submitted any additional evidence or arguments it follows I have no reason 
to change the findings or conclusion I set out in the provisional decision. For the reasons set 
out above I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Ms B.
Putting things right 
I think its fair and reasonable for Ms B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt back, then
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 2 and treat all the payments
Ms B made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 Go
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in relation to
loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decisionI am upholding Ms Bs complaint in part. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman