DRN-4400083
The complaint
Mr Ks representative complains on his behalf that Forester Life Limited (Forester) didnt 
transfer the full value of his Child Trust Fund (CTF) account to another provider.
What happened
Forester held a CTF for Mr Ks benefit. Mr Ks father, who Ill call Mr K1, was the registered 
contact with power to instruct on the CTF, and also represents Mr K in bringing this 
complaint.
In March 2023 Mr K1 submitted a form to Foresters requesting Mr Ks CTF be transferred to 
a Junior ISA with another provider. The transfer was completed in mid-April 2023.
Mr K1 complained to Forester. He said the value of Mr Ks CTF had risen between the day 
hed submitted the transfer request and the day it eventually went through a month later. But 
Forester had transferred a sum equal to the CTFs value when the transfer request was 
submitted. He thought the value on the date of the actual transfer should have been used, 
instead.
Forester didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said its standard practice was to use the 
account valuation on the date it received a transfer request when making transfers like this. 
It said this was to avoid cherry picking valuation dates. It said this could work out to be a 
positive or a negative, and had the value of Mr Ks plan fallen while the transfer was waiting 
to be processed hed have been better off.
One of our investigators looked into things. He initially thought Forester had acted fairly. But 
he then said he didnt think this arrangement had been fair to Mr K. He said it had the effect 
of taking Mr K out of the market for the time it took Forester to process the transfer, which 
wasnt what hed wanted. He said that this meant the transfer value wasnt truly reflective of 
the value of the investments when they were transferred. He said he didnt think there was 
any ability for Forester to cherry pick dates in advance and so wasnt persuaded this was a 
fair reason to have valued Mr Ks transfer the way it did. He said Forester should pay Mr K 
the difference between his CTFs value on the date it received the transfer request and the 
date it actually made the transfer. And that it should add growth on that loss equivalent to the 
rate of growth Mr K had achieved on his Junior ISA since then.
Mr K1 accepted our investigators conclusions on Mr Ks behalf. But Forester didnt, and 
asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. It said it had operated within its terms and 
conditions, and maintained this way of valuing Mr Ks transfer was fair. It said our service 
had issued a decision in the past endorsing this approach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to address Foresters reference to a previous decision issued by an 
ombudsman at our service which it says contradicts our investigators conclusions. Ive read 
the decision, and I understand why Forester has sent it to us. But my role is to consider each 
case on its own merits. Our previous decisions dont set a binding precedent for what 
follows, unlike the courts, so what another ombudsman said in another set of circumstances 
doesnt dictate the decision I make here. I have an obligation to decide what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case, and Im satisfied its fair for 
me to focus on the information available in relation to the particular CTF and transfer 
complained about here.
Forester has argued that using the valuation of Mr Ks CTF on the date it received the 
request is its standard practice, and in line with its terms and conditions. The relevant 
section of the terms regarding transfers says:
On receipt of your written instructions and within any time period you have stipulated (but 
not less than 10 business days after receipt of your instructions) we will transfer the Unit 
Account Value of your Plan [] We will issue you with a statement of your Plan at the date 
of transfer.
The term Unit Account Value is defined in the terms as effective on a given date means the 
sum of the units of each Fund of the Unit Account on that date multiplied by the respective 
unit price effective on that date.
The contract forms part of the legal agreement between the parties, and in reaching my 
decision I have to have regard for the law. I note that it would however be for the courts to 
decide on a matter of contractual interpretation. But bearing that in mind, Im not persuaded 
it's fair for Forester to have valued Mr Ks CTF the way it did based on the terms of the 
account.
The terms say Forester will transfer the Unit Account Value of Mr Ks plan on receipt of his 
written instructions. But thats not what happened  Mr Ks plan wasnt transferred until a 
month later. 
And in my view, in defining Unit Account Value, the terms dont provide any further clarity  
they just say that it is defined in terms of a given date. Foresters interpretation is that the 
date in question is on receipt of your written instructions, unless some other date is 
stipulated as provided for by the same section of the contract.
But thats not what the terms say  I think its reasonable for Mr K1 to have expected the Unit 
Account Value to be transferred to be the value on the date the transfer took place. Theres 
nothing in the terms that suggests this isnt what would happen in the event of a transfer. 
And I think the fact the terms say Mr K is to be issued a statement of his plan at the date of 
transfer suggests the value of the plan might fluctuate between receipt of his instructions and 
the transfer. If the value of the plan is fixed once the instructions are received, its not clear 
to me what reason there is for a statement referencing a later date. This is particularly 
relevant given the plan, and the underlying investments themselves, continued to be held in 
Mr Ks name until the transfer took place.
So I dont think the terms say that on receipt of written instructions the value of the CTF will 
be fixed for however long it takes for the transfer to take place. But even if Im wrong about 
that, my remit is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And here, 
even if the terms gave Forester a contractual right to do what it did, Im not persuaded thats 
fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Forester had to comply with the regulators rules, including COBS 2.1.1R which says A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
Mr K1 had asked to transfer Mr Ks CTF from Forester to another provider. The CTF was 
invested in assets with Forester, and was to be in the Junior ISA it was being transferred to. 
At no stage did Mr K1 give an indication he had a desire to be out of the market. In fact he 
selected the option on the transfer form to make the transfer immediately. 
By fixing the value of Mr Ks CTF when it received the instruction, Forester have effectively 
taken Mr K out of the market for however long it took to process the request. Mr K is left in 
exactly the same position as if his CTF had been sold, or had its units cancelled, on the day 
Forester got his transfer request. I dont think thats what Mr K1 asked for nor do I think it 
was something Forester explained might happen. Had Forester actually sold Mr Ks 
investments on the day it got his request, and just not transferred the proceeds for a month, 
there would be a question of whether that amount of time was reasonable. But here, the 
impression was given that the CTF was still in place (because technically it was) but Mr K 
was still effectively left without the benefit of the investment he wanted for the time it took 
Forester to process his request.
Ive considered Foresters arguments about why it thinks this was fair. Its said this approach 
avoided cherry picking a date that suited either the provider or Mr K. But I dont find this 
persuasive. Forester couldnt know from one day to the next what the markets, and therefore 
the value of Mr Ks plan, would do. So I cant see how it would otherwise have been able to 
cherry pick a date that suited either itself or Mr K.
Forester is right to say that this approach could work to the benefit or the detriment of Mr K. 
Had the value of his plan fallen while Forester was processing his request, he would indeed 
have been better off. But I dont think Mr K1 wanted Forester to take that risk away from him 
or Mr K. He had an investment he wanted to move to another provider, and I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for Forester to unilaterally take the decision to artificially take away 
Mr Ks exposure to the market for so long. Im not persuaded this was in Foresters clients 
best interests.
I think its also important that Forester didnt actually sell Mr Ks CTF when it got his 
instructions. So the underlying investments linked to Mr Ks plan continued to be held, for his 
benefit, up until the date of transfer. Mr K1 has noted that the CTF was still able to be viewed 
online, with a live valuation, in early April. So where no actual investment transactions took 
place between Forester receiving Mr K1s instructions and the eventual transfer, the 
valuation Forester used became substantially separated from the actual investments which 
were held for the benefit of Mr K and intended to provide the value of his CTF.
To put it another way, between Forester receiving Mr Ks transfer request and its processing 
of that transfer, Mr K continued to hold a CTF which was linked to actual investments. Yet 
his ability to benefit from the value of those investments had ceased by virtue of Forester 
fixing the valuation of his plan. I dont find this to be fair or reasonable. By creating an 
artificial valuation which wasnt reflective of any actual activity or transactions on Mr Ks 
account, I dont think Forester was acting honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with Mr Ks best interests.
For all these reasons I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Forester to transfer the 
amount it did. I find that Forester ought to have transferred the value of Mr Ks CTF at the 
time it actually sold or cancelled units and sent proceeds to the new provider. I think it would 
be fair for it to compensate Mr K as if it had done so.Putting things right
Forester should calculate the Unit Account Value of Mr Ks CTF on the date it carried out the 
actual transfer to his new provider. For clarity this should be the date it processed the 
transfer on its system and requested a cheque be drawn and sent, rather than the date 
money was received into Mr Ks account with his new provider. It should pay Mr K the 
difference between this value and the amount it actually transferred.
Had it transferred the correct amount, Mr K would have had the benefit of this additional sum 
in his Junior ISA. So Forester should also pay Mr K a sum equal to the amount the loss 
would have grown by  using the overall percentage return on Mr Ks Junior ISA from the 
date of transfer to the date it settles this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold this complaint and direct Forester Life Limited to pay Mr 
K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman