DRN-2057125
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a pre-
authorisation when he wanted to make a claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S wanted to make a claim on his pet insurance policy for investigation and 
treatment recommended by his vet. This was in relation to dermatitis on his dogs paws. But 
the pre-authorisation was declined. 
When Mr S and his wife asked why the claim was declined they were told that their policy 
provided time-limited cover. This meant that for any given condition, cover would be 
provided for 365 days. After that period, Red Sands would make no further payments for the 
same condition. They said that Mr Ss dog had first suffered from skin allergies in August 
2016 which meant that Mr S wouldnt be able to claim for skin allergies after August 2017. 
And they said it meant theyd put an exclusion for all skin allergies onto the policy. This 
would be effective from July 2017  the date of the first renewal after the condition was first 
noticed. 
In further correspondence, Mr Ss vet stated that her opinion was that the May 2019 
diagnosis of chronic dermatitis was unrelated to the ongoing condition  so she thought it 
ought to be claimable. 
Red Sands carried out further investigations. They reviewed the whole of the dogs clinical 
history and reiterated that they wouldnt pay the claim given the 365-day limit. In their final 
decision they made the following points:
There is no compulsion to make a claim for all treatments but they do ask customers 
to update them about their pets health.
In February 2018 the vet notes stated there was a 10-month history of interdigital 
dermatitis. So even if the August 2016 concerns were set aside, cover would still 
have expired by May 2019.
The exclusion applied to the policy is in line with the policy terms.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator looked at it. His view was that the 
exclusion Red Sands had applied was too broad. And he said he hadnt seen evidence that 
Mr S had made a qualifying misrepresentation about his dogs health. So he thought Red 
Sands should reconsider Mr Ss claim. And he recommended that Red Sands compensate 
Mr S for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused by not assessing Mr Ss claim fairly.
Red Sands werent happy with our investigators view. In their response they said theyd 
asked a clear question about Mr Ss dogs health, which Mr S hadnt responded to correctly. 
They said if he had responded correctly (by calling them to discuss the dogs health), they 
would have excluded all skin conditions from the cover provided.
In addition, they said that the claim is for interdigital dermatitis. They said the 365-day period 
for interdigital dermatitis would have started from April 2017 (10 months before 22 February vet notes) and therefore would have expired in April 2018. Our investigator referred the 
complaint for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 July 2020. In that decision I said I could see Red Sands 
were declining Mr Ss claim for two reasons:
Misrepresentation  Red Sands said that if Mr S had told them about his dogs 
clinical history, they would have excluded treatment of all skin conditions from his 
cover.
Time-limited cover  Red Sands said that each condition is limited to 365 days 
cover. And theyre satisfied the May 2019 claim was for a condition that had already 
expired.
I said I was inclined to agree with Red Sands on both points and explained why. Ive set out 
some extracts from my provisional decision below:
Misrepresentation
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. In 
May 2019, the policy covering Mr Ss dog is summarised in the July 2018 renewal schedule. 
This schedule includes a section entitled Declaration questions and says: If the answer is 
yes to any of the above questions, please contact us on Red Sands reserve the right 
not to accept cover.
The first question in this section is: Have you ever taken [name of pet] to the vet for 
anything other than routine vaccinations? 
Im inclined to say that this is a clear question, and that the instructions to call Red Sands 
were clear. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S notified Red Sands of any of his 
dogs visits to the vet. This suggests to me that Mr S didnt take reasonable care when he 
accepted the policy renewal in July 2018. So Im inclined to treat his non-disclosure of vet 
trips as a qualifying misrepresentation.
When a consumer makes a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled to treat the 
policy as if the consumer had provided the correct information. In this case, Red Sands say 
that if Mr S had told them about his dogs clinical history, theyd have excluded all skin 
conditions from the cover. Theyve provided us with their list of standard exclusions and Ive 
considered this together with the dogs clinical history.
I can see that the dogs clinical history prior to July 2018 includes:
rash on tummy  most likely allergy reaction
skin infectionno evidence of any bite wounds but changes typical for hot spot
10 month history i/digital dermatitis
Red Sands have provided me with evidence that shows that they wouldnt have offered 
cover on any claims with respect to skin conditions from the renewal date.  This doesnt 
require the conditions to be linked  instead it means that if Mr S had told them about any 
one of these three things, Red Sands would have told him they wouldnt cover his dog for 
any skin conditions at all. Because of this, Im inclined to say Red Sands dont need to pay Mr Ss claim. And I think 
theyre entitled to exclude cover for all skin conditions from Mr Ss policy with effect from his 
renewal in July 2018.
Time-limited cover
If Mr S had told Red Sands about his dogs clinical history, he would have been entitled to 
365 days cover for any condition which occurred prior to the skin conditions exclusion being 
applied in July 2018. I think this is clearly set out in the Your Policy Summary section of the 
policy booklet which states:
Time limited policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after the condition is 
first noted by yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first arose or when an 
accident happened. Once these 365 days have elapsed this illness, injury or condition will no 
longer be covered 
I can see the vets notes state in February 2018 that there was a 10-month history of 
interdigital dermatitis. So Im inclined to say that interdigital dermatitis was first an issue in 
April 2017 and that cover for that condition was only available from April 2017 to April 2018. 
Ive already said that I dont think Red Sands need to pay Mr Ss claim because of Mr Ss 
misrepresentation to them. In addition, Im inclined to say that even if the misrepresentation 
wasnt an issue, the investigation and treatment of interdigital dermatitis in May 2019 
wouldnt be covered because its the same condition as was first noted in April 2017.     
Neither Mr S nor Red Sands have commented on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I've decided not to uphold this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further information to change the findings noted in my 
provisional decision. Or to change what I think is fair and reasonable in light of those 
findings. So my final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint against Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman