DRN-3112330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV in March 2019. In 
November 2019 they booked a holiday abroad, arranging their flights and accommodation 
separately. They were due to travel in April 2020. On 8 March 2020 they renewed their 
policy.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. That advice remained in place until Mr and Mrs Ms planned 
departure date in April 2020. They were able to recover the cost of their flights from the 
airline but couldnt get their money back for the villa theyd booked. So, they made a claim 
on their travel insurance policy.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for the 
circumstances in which Mr and Mrs M were claiming. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought it wasnt fair that Mr 
and Mrs M were left in a position where they had no cover if they travelled against FCO 
advice but also no cover if they cancelled. Mr and Mrs M accepted our investigators 
opinion but URV asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In September 2021 I issued my provisional decision. I set out the relevant terms and 
conditions and explained that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In 
summary I said: 
Cancellation due to a change in FCO advice wasnt a valid reason for a cancellation 
claim to be paid under the policy as it wasnt a listed, insured event for which cover 
is provided under the terms of the policy
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation 
wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. But didnt think that was the case in the circumstances of this 
complaint as I was satisfied that the relevant exclusions were clearly and 
transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. Had Mr and Mrs M wanted 
a policy that covered a change in FCO advice then they could have found such a 
policy on the market.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision. URV didnt respond with any further 
comments. So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision and URV didnt provide any further 
comments. So, theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
I remain satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms claim was fairly declined as there is no cover under 
the policy for a change in FCO advice. And I also think that the relevant exclusion was 
clearly and transparently set out in the policy documentation. Whilst Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs M Im not upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman