DRN-3847002
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent adequately 
compensated it for the inconvenience it experienced when it became the victim of on-line 
fraud.
In bringing this complaint B is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr W.
   
What happened
 On 1 July 2021 on suspicion they might be fraudulent, HSBC contacted Mr W to 
verify three on-line payments totalling over £84,000. Mr W confirmed that they were 
fraudulent. 
HSBC managed to intercept one of the payments of around £10,000. Afterwards, 
however, according to Mr W, both he and his son spent many hours on the phone to 
HSBC as well as visiting one of their branches in an attempt to secure a refund of 
outstanding total of around £74,000. On 8 July 2021 HSBC refunded the amount to 
B. 
Mr W said he found the process very stressful and that the poor customer service he 
received from HSBC made matters worse. 
HSBC acknowledged the service theyd provided to B was poor and in recognition of 
the inconvenience they also acknowledged had been caused, they paid £300 to B. 
B didnt think that was sufficient, largely because as Mr W explained, in dealing with 
matter, between 1 - 8 July 2021 he spent a considerable amount of management 
time either on the phone to HSBC, the police or attending one of the banks branches 
in person. He said that meant he couldnt physically or mentally carry out any work 
on behalf of B. 
Furthermore, Mr W said throughout that time he was advised by several members of 
HSBC's staff that B would be entitled to significant compensation based on the time 
and effort hed spent trying to secure the refund. Therefore, he believes the £300 
HSBC has paid is significantly short of what was expected, especially when 
compared to Mr Ws hourly chargeable rate which is significantly more. 
HSBC were unprepared to increase the compensation theyd paid to B, because they 
believed it fairly reflected the inconvenience their poor service had caused.
Since the complaint remained unresolved Mr W referred it to this service. 
The investigator believed the £300 HSBC paid to B was fair and reasonable for the banks 
acknowledged poor service. She said she appreciated that the circumstances of the case 
were personally stressful for Mr W and that he spent a significant amount of time dealing 
with the matter which otherwise he could have spent attending to the Bs affairs. 
Nonetheless, she concluded that since the eligible complainant in the case is B  the limited 
company - and that it could not experience distress, she didnt think an award aimed at 
compensating Mr W for his personal distress was appropriate. 
B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and on its behalf Mr W has responded in detail.  
In summary, he said:
He understood the eligible complainant in the case is B. But Bs performance and 
ability to function is entirely dependent on its small team which essentially comprise 
himself and his son. Both found the fraud distressing and, their attempts to obtain a 
refund from HSBC meant they were distracted from conducting Bs affairs. 
Because of HSBCs poor service, five working days were lost to B through a 
combination of:
Time spent by Mr W in a branch of HSBC trying to resolve matters face to 
face with bank staff 
Making calls to the bank and enduring long wait times in order to speak to 
bank staff
Attending police interview 
Being distressed by what had happened such that normal day to day working 
was impossible.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I start by saying how sorry I am to learn that B was the unfortunate victim of a fraud.
I appreciate that this would have been personally stressful for Mr W. And no doubt to 
alleviate the distress being experienced, he would have wanted things to be put right in a 
timely manner. Especially, perhaps, as Mr W has told us, the £74,000 the bank needed to 
refund to B represented a considerable amount of Bs cash reserves.  
HSBC have acknowledged that during that time the customer service afforded to B was poor 
and, on that basis, they paid B £300 for the inconvenience this caused. 
So, what is at the centre of this dispute, is whether HSBC have sufficiently compensated B 
with their payment of £300.  In other words, the matter I have to decide is whether that 
compensation is fair for the inconvenience B suffered because of the poor service HSBC 
provided between 1- 8 July 2021
Mr W has rightly acknowledged the investigators observation that Mr W isnt the eligible 
complainant here. This is a complaint brought to us by B the limited company which cannot 
suffer distress. With that in mind, to the extent that Mr W has told us about the distress he 
personally experienced, and his son too, arising from these events, disappointing though Im 
sure this will be for him, Im afraid having regard to who the eligible complainant is here, it 
wouldnt be appropriate to award compensation for the distress Mr W has described. 
That being said, B can be inconvenienced. And to this extent I agree with Mr W that in 
circumstances where as a result of something a bank has done wrong it causes the director of the company to be unable properly to conduct the companys affairs, then that company 
can, by extension be inconvenienced. 
With that in mind Ive considered Mr Ws account of how his distraction from running the 
affairs of B because HSBCs poor service, in turn, caused B to be inconvenienced. 
To begin with, I do not believe it would be fair and reasonable to require HSBC to 
compensate B for the time Mr W spent in an interview with the police about the fraud. I 
appreciate Mr W would have wanted to do this. But I do not understand it to be Bs case that 
HSBC made the police involvement a requirement for it to secure the refund. 
Mr W has told us he spent a lot of time in phone calls to the bank and that on 1 July after 
confirming that B had been the victim of a fraud HSBC said theyd call him back before close 
of business which they didnt. I appreciate this would have left Mr W feeling anxious and 
disappointed and meant he had to make further calls to HSBC. 
I note for example that the following day, 2 July 2021, Mr W rang and spoke to a bank 
employee. They had a lengthy and what seemed a reassuring conversation during which Mr 
W explained what had happened in connection with the fraud. The employee noted the 
details, explained that the banks investigation hadnt yet begun but that after their 
conversation shed pass the case to the relevant fraud team to begin that investigation. 
The employee also explained the steps she intended to take to restore Bs internet banking 
including, within five working days, shed send Mr W a letter with instructions on how to do 
this. The employee assured Mr W that in relation to the fraud, the relevant team would look 
into things and get back to him. 
Mr W did press the employee for a timeframe within which this would happen. And although 
she said she wouldnt usually give such a timeframe, nonetheless she explained this could 
take up to 15 business days. She explained to Mr W that if he did not receive the refund by 
then or any response from the bank about it he should call again for an update. 
But, although it was made clear in that conversation the likely timeframe for the banks 
investigation, I can understand why Mr W would have been anxious and needed to know the 
outcome of things much sooner. 
HSBCs internal notes record that Mr W told them that he along with his son made multiple 
calls to HSBC and spoke to different members of staff. But in light of the 2 July phone 
conversation it is difficult to conclude it was in the absence of any clear indication of how 
long things would take to conclude that made such calls inevitable. 
HSBC explained that because of the high value of the amounts by which B was defrauded, 
the case needed to be investigated thoroughly. And they further explained that the day after 
the fraud was detected  so on 2 July 2021, the case was sent to the relevant department for 
investigation as indeed the employee to whom Mr W spoke on 2 July said would happen. 
 
HSBC also said 2 working days later the fraud investigator was assigned the case, they 
completed their investigation on 7 July, and Bs funds were returned to it the day after on 8 
July.  
HSBC refunded Bs funds five working days after the fraud took place, well within the 
timeframe indicated on 2 July 2021. I do not think this is indicative of material delay on 
HSBCs part. And furthermore, it would appear Mr W received assurances from HSBC on 5 
and 7 July that matters were in hand. As noted above, HSBC have acknowledged their communication and customer service to B 
were poor.  And there were particular aspects that no doubt Mr W would have found 
frustrating  including that after confirming on 1 July 2021 that B had been the victim of a 
fraud, HSBC didnt follow through on their promise to call him back before close of business 
that day. Also, that when confirming the refund HSBC had made to B, the bank used the 
wrong template for its letter.  So rather than saying B had been the victim of on-line fraud, 
instead the letter said in error that B had been the victim of a telephone deception scam. But 
having considered the circumstances of this case overall Im satisfied the £300 paid by 
HSBC fairly compensates B for the inconvenience HSBC caused. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons stated above I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Im satisfied 
HSBC UK Bank Plcs payment of £300 in compensation to B is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything more in 
respect of Bs complaint  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman