DRN-3422554
The complaint
Mrs A has complained to Insurance Factory Ltd about the increase in premiums for her 
lifetime pet insurance policy.
All references to Insurance Factory include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs A took out lifetime pet insurance through Insurance Factory in 2012. In June 2021 the 
insurer of her policy sent Mrs A renewal documentation which showed an increase in her 
annual premium from £609 to £1188 a year. 
She complained about that. Ive issued a separate decision dealing with her concerns about 
the insurer of the policy and the level of premium increases. This complaint relates to what 
happened at the point of sale and the impact of any failings there. 
The insurer of the policy said it would pay her £175 as it accepted the information provided 
at the point of sale should have made the potential for premium increases clearer. 
However, after the complaint had been made to us, we established it only became the 
insurer in 2015. So it wasnt responsible for the information initially provided to Mrs A. Thats 
something Insurance Factory was responsible for. 
Our investigator agreed the information which Insurance Factory was responsible for didnt 
make clear the extent to which premiums might increase in future years. She thought the 
impact of that on Mrs A was greater than Insurance Factory had recognised and said it 
should pay Mrs A an additional £325.  
Insurance Factory didnt agree. It said Mrs A hadnt experienced any significant premium 
increases until the 2020 renewal. And the information she was provided with at that point 
explained the impact of claims on the premiums. It was the claims Mrs A then made which 
generated the premium increase in 2021 which prompted her complaint. It thought the 
compensation which had already been paid was fair. So I need to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Insurance Factory provided about this policy should have made clear to 
Mrs A what the long term cost implications of taking out a policy like this might be. I dont 
think its in dispute it didnt do that and so Insurance Factory is at fault here. 
Ive thought about whether Mrs A would still have taken out this policy if shed been given 
clearer information. She chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover 
for her pet. And, as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in 
the greater level of cover it provided. If Mrs A hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve 
either had no cover at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a 
reduced level of cover, where she would have found herself in a situation where her pets 
ongoing conditions were no longer covered. 
So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if shed 
known the premium could increase significantly in the future. However, I do think better 
information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs A wasnt so surprised and upset when 
the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been something she was expecting 
to happen. Ive thought about what the right amount to recognise that is.
I can see when Mrs A first took out her policy the annual premium was around £206. The 
cost increased to around £300 the following year (as Mrs A had made a claim) but then 
reduced in the next two years. However, the cost of the policy nearly doubled between 2015 
and 2020 and then increased by a further 95% between 2020 and 2021. 
I appreciate the most recent increase was driven by claims Mrs A made on the policy. And I 
think she might reasonably have expected there to be a relationship between a claim being 
made and a subsequent increase in the renewal price. But I think the level of increase (a 
near doubling from around £600 to close to £1,200) is likely to have gone beyond what 
Mrs A might have expected. And, as Ive said, there was also a significant increase in the 
cost of the policy between 2015 to 2020.
Insurance Factory say Mrs A could have shopped around when she received the 2020 
renewal (as that was prior to the claim she made). But the renewal documentation only said 
the premium increase will be more significant if you have claimed. I dont think that would 
have made clear to Mrs A the extent to which her premium was likely to increase as a result 
of any claim she might make.
Im also mindful of the fact Mrs A took out this policy on the basis it would provide lifetime 
cover. So she would reasonably have thought she wouldnt need to shop around because 
the policy would provide ongoing cover for the life of her pet. And at the point of receiving the 
2020 renewal documentation shed been paying for it for eight years. Even if she had then 
shopped around for alternative cover I think it would have been upsetting for her to have to 
do so. 
In any event her pet was by then eight years old. And any conditions it had developed (even 
if they havent yet led to a claim) would be unlikely to be covered by a new policy as theyd 
be classed as pre-existing. I think that would have made finding alternative cover at a 
competitive price more difficult. In fact I think Mrs A is now likely to be faced with the difficult 
choice of paying the high cost of this policy on an ongoing basis or letting it lapse -  meaning 
her pet is unlikely to be covered for pre-existing conditions under any alternative policy she 
takes out. 
Of course if it had been made clear at the outset the extent to which the premiums might 
increase the distress Mrs A was caused when that did happen could have been avoided. But 
Insurance Factory has accepted it didnt do that. 
Ive considered the points its raised as to why it doesnt agree the compensation in this case 
should be increased. But I dont think the amount it proposed does properly recognise the 
impact on Mrs A of whats happened. Taking into account the time shes had this policy for, 
the level of the premium increase (both in percentage and absolute terms) and the difficulties 
shell now have in obtaining cover elsewhere I think the further compensation our 
investigator recommended is appropriate. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I understand Mrs A has already received £175 in 
compensation. If thats right Insurance Factory will need to pay her an additional £325. If 
Mrs A hasnt received any compensation to date Insurance Factory will need to pay her 
£500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman