DRN-2576391
The complaint
Mr D complains that a payment he tried to make was blocked by Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax.  
What happened
On 8 June 2020 Mr D made an online payment to his mobile phone provider for £21.06. 
Halifax sent Mr D a One Time Passcode (OTP) by text message that he used to approve the 
payment. 
Halifaxs systems record that Mr D tried to make another payment for £21.06 to his mobile 
phone provider at 22:02 on 27 June 2020 and that it sent an OTP to him by text message at 
22:03. Mr D has told us he didnt receive the OTP Halifax says it sent. Another payment was 
attempted at 22:05 and Halifax says it sent an OTP by text message to Mr D at 22:06. Mr D 
has explained he didnt receive the second OTP either. 
Mr D spoke with Halifax and was told the online payments were attempted using a different 
IP address that led to a fraud alert. Halifax verified the payment was genuine and it was 
made a short time later. 
Mr D complained and has explained he was using the same device to make the payments in 
question. Mr D says it hasnt been established why the payment he tried to make on 27 June 
2020 wasnt successful and that he doesnt think the OTPs were sent as Halifax claims. 
Halifax responded to Mr Ds complaint on 14 July 2020 but didnt uphold it. Halifax said it 
could find no reason why Mr D didnt receive the OTPs it sent. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Halifax had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D was abroad on 27 June 2020 when he tried to make the payment, so 
calling Halifax to find out what had happened and remove the account block was 
inconvenient for him. Mr D has also told us he didnt received the OTPs Halifax sent him by 
text message which meant he had to call. I dont doubt what Mr D has said. I can see from 
the payment information Ive seen that Mr D attempted to complete the transaction twice 
within around five minutes and that neither went through. It was only after Mr D called 
Halifax that the payment to his mobile phone provider was made. 
But I have to be fair to both parties and Halifax has sent us information from its payments 
systems. The information records the specific dates and times of the attempted online 
payments, along with the IP addresses used. The information Ive seen shows that both 
times Mr D tried to make a payment on 27 June 2020 Halifax sent a text message containing 
an OTP. 
Mr D has told us he was abroad at the time and Halifax has suggested this may be why he 
didnt receive the text messages. I dont know why the OTP text messages werent received, 
but Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows Halifax did send them as it claims. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr D, but Im satisfied Halifax followed the normal process when he tried to 
make the payments on 27 June 2020. 
Mr D has asked why his payments were blocked, despite a previous payment being 
successful on 8 June 2020. But each payment is subject to monitoring and checks carried 
out by Halifax. Halifax says a different IP address was used for the online payment and the 
OTPs were sent to authorise it. As Mr D didnt receive the OTPs he wasnt able to complete 
the final stage in the process. However, as Ive said above, Im satisfied the systems 
information Ive seen shows Halifax did sent Mr D OTPs as claimed. 
Halifaxs systems information also records the IP address each time an online payment is 
attempted. And whilst I understand Mr D used the same device, the information shows a 
different IP address was used for the 8 June 2020 and 27 June 2020 payment attempts. 
Again, Im satisfied the systems information provided shows Halifax was correct when it told 
Mr D a different IP address was used when he tried to make online payments on 27 June 
2020.
When Mr D spoke with Halifax an issue with error codes were discussed. Halifax says it 
referred this to a technical team to check, but they didnt impact the issues Mr D experienced 
on 27 June 2020. And, as Ive said above, Im satisfied Halifax has provided information that 
shows it did send Mr D OTPs as claimed.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent found anything to show Halifax made a mistake 
when he tried to pay his mobile phone provider on 27 June 2020 or that it treated him 
unfairly. As I havent found that Halifax has made a mistake and Im satisfied it dealt with 
Mr Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman