DRN-2194459
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc is holding her liable for transactions on her credit 
card that she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs S has said that shed noticed a number of transactions on her Santander credit card 
after receiving her statements. She said that the transactions were carried out after shed 
paid off the entire balance. She was looking to close the account, but she says shed kept 
the card and left the account open on the advice of Santander.
Mrs S reported the unauthorised transactions to Santander, but her claim was cancelled 
after Santander said it had tried to get in touch with Mrs S on several occasions and she 
hadnt responded. Shed also terminated telephone calls with Santander when it was trying 
to resolve the claim.
Mrs S contacted Santander to chase her claim again after it had been cancelled. She was 
informed that she hadnt responded to numerous attempts to contact her and shed therefore 
be required to fill out the relevant forms again. But Santander later acknowledged that this 
was the incorrect advice as the claim had been cancelled. 
Mrs S made a complaint to Santander as she says she was frustrated with the delays 
caused in investigating her claim. She was also unhappy that she was being chased for the 
debt as a result of the disputed transactions.
Santander responded to Mrs Ss complaint acknowledging that her claim had been delayed 
by the incorrect advice she received over the telephone; it paid her £75 in compensation for 
the inconvenience this caused. It passed her claim back over to the fraud team which later 
decided not to refund the transactions. It said that the same internet protocol (IP) address 
had been used on some of the transactions as that used on undisputed payments Mrs S had 
carried out. So, it thought that it was more likely than not that shed authorised them.
Mrs S came to our service as she was unhappy with the result of her claim. She continued to 
dispute that she had any involvement in the transactions.
An Investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint. Upon requesting information from Santander, 
it reviewed the complaint again and decided to write off some of the transactions. It said that 
its fraud team acknowledged it couldnt prove that certain transactions were carried out by 
Mrs S, but four of them were carried out using the same IP address that had been used on 
other undisputed transactions. It decided to write off the other transactions and offered to 
pay Mrs S £100 in compensation.
Our Investigator put this to Mrs S, but she remained unhappy as she said shed not 
authorised these transactions either and wanted our service to look into this further.
Following a review of the evidence, the Investigator was of the opinion that Mrs S likely 
authorised the remaining transactions. Her reasons for this are as follows:
One of the disputed payments was refunded to Mrs Ss account. She didnt think that 
a fraudster unconnected to Mrs S would take the time to do this.
Mrs S claimed at the time of the transactions that she was away from home visiting 
family. But after submitting an information request to one of the retailers where a 
disputed payment was made, it was confirmed that the purchase was in Mrs Ss 
name and delivered to her home address. It wasnt likely that a person at the 
location she was visiting would have done this.
Mrs S regularly logged into her online banking during the time that the disputed 
transactions were made. She didnt think it was likely that this would have been 
anyone other than Mrs S, or someone shed given consent to, and therefore 
questioned why she hadnt noticed the transactions and reported them sooner.
Mrs S disagreed with the Investigators assessment. She maintained that she hadnt 
authorised the transactions and that Santander should write off the full amount disputed. As 
Mrs S disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In basic terms, The Payment Services Regulations 2017 says that Santander can hold Mrs S 
liable for the transactions if she authorised them or didnt take reasonable steps to keep her 
account secure. So, I must first consider in the circumstances of this complaint if the 
disputed transactions were authorised by Mrs S or not.
Mrs S has admitted to having her credit card in her possession at all times and has denied 
providing any third-party authority to use it. In addition to this, she has told our service that 
her card information is contained within her mobile telephone without any security features to 
prevent access to the device.
Considering the above, it is plausible that a third-party could have accessed the device, 
found the card information and used this to make the transactions without Mrs Ss consent. 
But other factors persuade me that this is unlikely here.
Whilst Mrs S has admitted to her phone being unsecured with her card information contained 
within, this wouldnt explain how a third-party would have accessed her mobile banking 
facilities. Mobile banking requires an additional form of security in order to access it on the 
device. Having looked at Mrs Ss mobile banking access informationprovided on technical 
reports supplied by SantanderI can see that on 27 February 2018 a device was registered 
for mobile banking using the telephone number Mrs S has provided as her own contact 
number to both Santander and our service. I can see no evidence of any other devices being 
registered after this date. I can also see that on 27 June 2018 biometric security was 
registered. Taking these points into consideration, Im persuaded that its likely Mrs S was 
the only person who would have been able to access her mobile banking on the device 
where shed registered it.
Whilst Santander has refunded a number of the transactions in dispute, I can see that Mrs S 
regularly accessed her mobile banking throughout the period of the disputed transactions. 
Mrs S has also told our serviceand this is corroborated by her account statementsthat 
shed paid the full balance of the credit card on 30 October 2018. It was after this, and up 
until 28 December 2018, that the disputed payments were made. Considering Mrs S had 
paid off the full balance and was logging in regularly between these two dates, I think that its unlikely she wouldnt have noticed her credit card balance increasing from its nil balance 
sooner. This brings into question why Mrs S didnt report the disputed transactions sooner 
considering she likely saw this. And having questioned Mrs S regarding this, shes been 
unable to provide an explanation as to why she hadnt noticed these or reported them 
sooner despite logging in regularly during the specified period.
Ive also considered the evidence obtained from a third-party retailer by our Investigator. 
Following a request for information regarding one of the disputed payments, the retailer 
where the payment was made to confirmed that the name and delivery address associated 
with the purchase matched that of Mrs Ss details. I find it unlikely that an unknown third-
party would have done this as there is no reasonable explanation as to how they would have 
known Mrs Ss address or when the delivery would take place to intercept it. Id also 
question why theyd have it delivered to Mrs Ss home address in the first place rather than a 
place that was accessible to them. I acknowledge that its plausible that someone residing in 
the same property as Mrs S could have obtained the card information and intercepted the 
delivered item. But considering Mrs S was regularly logging into her mobile banking, I think 
had the purchases been carried out by someone known to her, without her permission, she 
would have noticed them and reported it to Santander sooner. Ive also asked Mrs S to 
provide me information regarding who she resides with, but she has hasnt responded to this 
point.
Finally, the disputed payments dont appear to follow the behaviour we tend to see in 
circumstances of fraud. Experience shows that fraudstersor even opportuniststend to 
maximize their gains by getting as much as they can in the shortest time possible. This is 
because they know that once the cardholder is alerted to the fraud, they will block its use in 
order to put a stop to any further theft. In this case, small and large payments were made in 
sporadic periods, sometimes with over a week passing before the next transaction. I dont 
find it likely that a person whod obtained Mrs Ss card details, with the intent to use it without 
her permission, would have waited such long periods before carrying out their next 
transaction. There is also a refund from one of the retailers where a disputed payment was 
made, which again is unusual when considering the behaviour we tend to see in instances of 
fraud. Whilst not impossible, it is unlikely a fraudster would go to the effort of arranging a 
refund. But I am conscious that there are many reasons for which a refund could have been 
issued, and this may have been instigated without a request to do so. 
For all the above reasons, and considering Mrs S has said shed given no one else 
permission to use her card, I think that it is more likely than not that Mrs S authorised the 
transactions.
Putting things right
Santander has already agreed to write off some of the transactions Mrs S has disputed, but I 
wont be recommending that it write off any further transactions. Theyve also offered to pay 
Mrs S £100 for the inconvenience caused. If Santander still wish to offer this then I will leave 
it to Santander to arrange payment, but I wont be directing it to make this payment.
Santander has already paid £75 in compensation for some of the administrative errors it 
made in giving Mrs S incorrect information when she reported the claim. Considering that 
Mrs S failed to respond to Santanders communication when making the claim, and that this 
caused a small delay in her claim being processed, I think that the £75 paid was fair in the 
circumstances. For these reasons, I wont be recommending that Santander pay anything 
more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I find that the offer Santander UK Plc has made is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman