DRN-3760432
The complaint
Miss H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) took too long to 
repair her vehicle.
All references to Advantage include its agents.
What happened
Miss H was involved in an accident on 14 February 2021. She contacted her car 
insurance provider, Advantage, who accepted the claim and agreed to repair the car.
There were delays with ordering the parts. Miss H raised a complaint with Advantage 
and a Final Response Letter (FRL) was issued on 21 June 2021, which explained 
that Miss H could raise the complaint with the Ombudsman Service within six months 
if she didnt consider the issue resolved. Miss H didnt bring her complaint to us in 
that time.
On 18 June 2022 Miss H contacted our Service regarding the delays. She noted that 
when she contacted Kia directly in April 2022 they said the parts were available for 
next day delivery. The investigator raised the complaint with Advantage on behalf of 
Miss H.
In their response, Advantage explained that there had been delays with the parts that 
needed to be shipped from Korea. They issued a further FRL (on 25 June 2022) and 
acknowledged the delay. They offered £50 compensation, which they increased to 
£300 on 2 September 2022 after a review of the file and in recognition that there 
were unnecessary delays.
The investigator noted that she could only review the complaint from 13 December 
2021, when they had issued a second FRL, because Miss H hadnt come to us within 
the deadline of the first FRL. The investigator considered £300 to be a fair offer in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays from 13 
December 2021.
Miss H didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered this complaint from 13 December 2021 and until Advantages offer of a 
further £250 made to us on 2 September 2022. 
Having done so, I am reaching the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why:
Whilst I acknowledge the parts for the car had been ordered (on 29 July 2021) and 
that it would take time for these to be received from Korea, other options werent 
considered to get the parts quicker, when it was clear there were lengthy delays. 
Only after Miss H told Advantage that Kia had said that the parts were available (in 
April 2022) did Advantage follow up, making a cash in lieu settlement offer on 11 July 
2022 that wasnt accepted by Miss H and then on 9 August, offering to arrange the 
repair, which was scheduled for 6 September 2022. 
Although the vehicle could still be driven, the delays caused Miss H distress and 
inconvenience. Throughout this time Miss H had to follow up with Advantage, request 
updates and suggest ways to reduce the delays.
I recognise the impact on Miss H of the delays and the poor communication, and 
agree that the total £300 distress and inconvenience payment is fair and in line with 
what we would recommend in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should pay Miss H the additional £250, on top of the £50 already paid, and in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Rachel Lam
Ombudsman