DRN-2216902
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined his claim under his warranty 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S bought a TV and a warranty for it. Two months later, Mr Ss wife found that the TV had 
a vertical strip through the picture. So, Mr S made a claim on the policy. But Astrenska 
turned the claim down because it said Mr S hadnt taken enough precautions to prevent the 
damage.
Mr S complained to Astrenska, but it maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said that 
Mr S had advised that one of his children might have slipped and damaged the TV or thrown 
something at the screen. Astrenska said that damage caused in these ways werent covered 
by the terms of the policy.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Astrenska had dealt with the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that 
it was reasonable to turn down the claim given how the damage happened.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy covered breakdown or accidental damage to his TV. Mr S said that the issue 
with the TV was due to accidental damage, so he was unhappy that Astrenska turned down 
the claim. So Ive thought about whether I think Astrenskas decision was fair and 
reasonable.
The TV was secured to a wall and Mr S said that it was about four feet from the ground. The 
TV screen was damaged, which resulted in a vertical strip that blocked the picture on that 
part of the screen. Ive seen photos of both the position of the TV and the damage. Im 
aware that Mr S has said there was also physical damage to the TV and he provided photos 
to show this.
Astrenska spoke to Mr Ss wife as part of dealing with the claim. She was there when the 
damage happened, but Mr S wasnt. Ive listened to the phone call where Mr Ss wife 
described what she thought happened. She said that she was in the kitchen and went into 
the room where the TV was located and saw one of their children fall. She thought he might 
have hit his head or his bangle against the TV screen. She said he also had a toy in his hand 
and this might also have hit the TV screen. Astrenska asked Mr Ss wife what she thought 
was most likely to have happened. She said she thought the child had slipped off a cabinet 
and hit his bangle on the TV screen.
The policy covers accidental damage, which it defined as follows:
Accidental Damage means physical damage or some other event as a result of a sudden, 
unforeseen and unintended cause which stops the Equipment working.
So, I can understand why Mr S thought that the damage should have been covered by the 
policy. However, I note that the policy also included a number of exclusions and that it was 
on the basis of these that the Astrenska turned down the claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether I think that was reasonable.
The policy included an exclusion that said:
17. Where You have not taken adequate precautions to prevent or mitigate Accidental 
Damage of Your Equipment, such as using a games console controller without using 
provided straps/restraints (as recommended by the manufacturer) or moving heavy 
Equipment on Your own.
Astrenska explained that, based on this exclusion, the claim wasnt covered. It said:
You had advised us that your child was playing with a nerf gun on a cabinet/side table and 
has slipped from the cabinet/side table causing him to fall, thus, causing damage to the TV 
screen with either a bracelet he was wearing or the nerf gun itself.
From the photographs showing the layout of the room and the description of events provided 
by you, it has been determined that the only way the damage could have occurred is if your 
son was physically standing on the cabinet located directly below the TV.
Your claim was then declined as the Claims Agent believed that the necessary precautions 
had not been taken to prevent the damage.
Mr S has argued that by putting the TV on the wall that he thought he had taken the 
necessary precautions to prevent the damage. He also said that at no point had he 
encouraged his children to climb on the furniture. I can understand that view, but based on 
the description given by Mr Ss wife of what happened and the location of the TV in the 
room, I think that it was reasonable to turn down the claim on this basis. This is because it 
seems that a child was standing on a piece of furniture and that, as a result of this, he then 
fell and came into contact with the TV causing the damage.
Mr S also told Astrenska that he thought one of his children might have thrown the nerf gun 
at the TV. Astrenska then said that if that was the case, it would also decline the claim on the 
basis of two other exclusions:
9. Damage caused by projectiles thrown at televisions.
15. A claim where You cannot confirm the circumstances of the claim to Our satisfaction 
including details before and after the incident.
Given the additional information provided by Mr S, I also think it was reasonable for 
Astrenska to decide that the claim wouldnt be covered on that basis either. The policy 
clearly stated that it didnt cover damage where something has been thrown at the TV and 
Mr S was also now suggesting that it couldnt be confirmed exactly how the TV had been 
damaged. 
I also note that Mr S said that no-one was in the room when the damage happened, so it 
wasnt possible to know exactly how it happened. However, having listened to the phone call where Mr Ss wife explained the circumstances of the claim, she said she saw it happen and 
that it was when one of the children fell and came into contact with the TV.
While I understand that Mr S expected his claim to be covered, it isnt unusual for a policy to 
have exclusions that explain circumstances where a claim wont be covered. I also dont 
consider any of the exclusions used to decline the claim to be unreasonable.
Im also aware that Mr S asked Astrenska to provide the call recordings. Ive seen evidence 
that it asked Mr S to specify the call recordings that he wanted, but I havent seen any 
evidence that he replied to that request. Mr S also complained that he wasnt sent a 
complaint form to complete. Astrenska has confirmed that policyholders can complete an 
online form or phone to register a claim. We cant tell a business the methods it should use 
to register a claim, but I cant see that not providing a complaint form by post prevented Mr S 
from registering a claim.
So, thinking about this complaint as a whole, I think that Astrenska considered the evidence 
provided by Mr S and his wife and that it was reasonable to turn down the claim on the basis 
of what it was told about how the damage happened. It therefore follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint or require Astrenska to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman