DRN-4094001
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim under 
a landlords property insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K rented out a property. The tenants moved out and the property was empty. A few days 
later, there was a water leak at the property. So, Mrs K contacted Ageas to make a claim. 
Ageas declined the claim because it said Mrs K didnt have cover in place for a water leak, 
as the property was empty.
When Mrs K complained, Ageas maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mrs K 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it was fair for 
Ageas to decline the claim, as Mrs K didnt have the correct cover in place.
As Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy booklet said there was no cover for an escape of water while the property was 
empty or unoccupied. It also said:
We must be notified as soon as possible whenever a property becomes empty or 
unoccupied. We shall have the right to change the terms and conditions of your policy and 
you must implement any risk improvement measures that we require within the agreed 
timescales and pay any additional premium if required.
For cover to be in place while the property was empty or unoccupied, Mrs K needed to notify 
Ageas and an endorsement needed to have been added to the policy. There were two 
relevant endorsements. These were the 30 Days Unoccupancy Clause and the Extended 
Cover on an Unoccupied Property. Without one of these being added, and any relevant 
premium paid, an escape of water wasnt covered and the policy was limited to damage from 
fire, lightning, earthquake, explosion or aerial vehicles. The endorsement also required an 
excess of £2,500 and some additional conditions, including turning off the water and draining 
the water system.
It is common for insurers to reduce the level of cover when a property is unoccupied or 
empty. So, I dont think Ageas has done anything unusual by doing so. Mrs K didnt notify 
Ageas that the property was empty. Im also aware it had only been empty for a short period 
of time when the water leak happened. However, I think Ageas policy was clear that cover 
wasnt in place for an escape of water unless it had been notified and a relevant 
endorsement had been added. Ageas also directed Mrs K to the wording in the policy that 
required the water to be turned off and the system drained while the property was empty. 
The water was still on at the property. Im aware Mrs K has explained why this was the case. 
However, this didnt comply with the terms of the policy.
So, having thought carefully about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require 
Ageas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman