DRN-3517159
The complaint
Mr  W complains about advice given to him relating to Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC) and says the offer made by Tilney Financial Planning Limited is not 
enough to put things right for him.
The advice was given by another firm which is now part of Tilney. For ease of reading Ill 
refer to Tilney in my decision.
What happened
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
Mr W started working for the NHS in 1993 and became a member of the NHS pension 
scheme. He decided to make additional contributions toward his retirement provision and 
says he took advice about this in 1997. Following that advice, he took out an FSAVC starting 
in June 1997 rather than make additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) to his occupational 
scheme. The CMC says Mr W wasnt told about the risks involved or alternative options and 
so was badly advised.
Mr W paid £100 per month which was invested in a fund with a company Ill call E. His 
retirement date was selected as December 2020 (at age 55). 
Over the lifetime of the plan Mr W remained invested in the same fund with the same level of 
contributions. He continues to work in the NHS, has remained a member of the NHS pension 
scheme and has not bought additional years in that scheme.
When Mr W complained, Tilney said it didnt have any records from the time but accepted it 
was likely Mr W was disadvantaged by taking out an FSAVC rather than using the in-house 
AVC scheme. It didnt think he would have decided to buy added years in the occupational 
scheme. 
Tilney offered to instruct a third party to calculate redress in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC guidance, based on a comparison with the in-house scheme. But the CMC said 
Mr W would have been better off if hed bought added years in his employers pension and 
Tilney should calculate the redress on that basis.
Tilney didnt agree so Mr W complained to this service. Our investigator thought Tilneys 
offer was reasonable and didnt think it needed to do any more. Mr W disagrees and has 
requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes made a number of comments, including that:
he didnt want to take any risks with his pension and was content to accept the option 
of the one additional pension presented to him;
the monthly payments were not high and the benefits presented to him were clear;
he didnt give the additional pension any further thought and didnt come across the 
term added years until recently, when a colleague who was retiring mentioned it to 
him;
now he can see the real worth of the additional pension hes been paying into all 
these years and compare it to the value of the added years he could have bought, 
hes been left severely disadvantaged;
his salary has increased regularly so added years would have been affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The plan was taken out by Mr W in 1997 and there are no records available from the time. 
so its very difficult to say precisely what was discussed or what information Mr W was given. 
Ive made my decision on the basis of what I think is most likely to have happened, based on 
the information we do have.
The business that became part of Tilney was an independent financial adviser (IFA), so 
wasnt tied to a particular provider. The advice took place after May 1996 and the regulator 
had by then clarified the standards it expected IFAs to follow. The adviser was expected to 
explain the difference in cost between FSAVCs and in-house AVCs, and discuss the choice 
of investments and the availability and cost of buying added years in the occupational 
scheme. 
Tilney was prepared to carry out a comparison following the regulators FSAVC redress 
guidance. Thats what wed expect a firm to do. Generally speaking people are better off 
making in-house AVCs as the charges tend to be lower, and the perceived benefits of 
FSAVCs (such as flexibility and portability) are less likely to be relevant for a medical 
professional like Mr W. He was likely to remain in the profession (and therefore the same 
pension scheme) rather than change employers over his working life.
Ive considered Mr Ws comments that he would have been better off if hed bought added 
years rather than invest in an FSAVC. He could have reasonably expected to stay in the 
same employment and to receive pay increases through his career, which were likely to be 
linked annually to inflation and career progression. So, I think its fair to say he would have 
expected his income would increase regularly  as indeed it has. But Mr W didnt ever 
increase his payments into the FSAVC over the years. 
To buy added years he would have had to commit to a fixed percentage contribution from his 
salary. So by its nature, the amount hed pay would rise each time his salary went up. Since 
he chose not to commit at the outset to paying a percentage of his increasing salary, which 
would have been required to buy added years, it doesnt seem likely he would have chosen 
the more expensive and increasing premiums needed for added years.
Ive considered where Mr W invested his contribution. As theres no documentation from the 
point of sale, I cant be sure of Mr Ws attitude to risk at the time. But in 1997 retirement was 
far enough away to mean he wouldnt have been completely risk averse. The Global fund he 
invested in (and remained invested in) carries a higher than average level of risk as its 
mainly invested in equities. This shows he took some risk in order to maximise returns over 
the longer term. That seems reasonable, given he had more than twenty years until 
retirement. I think if added years were discussed at that time, they would have been a less 
likely choice as they are a much more conservative, risk averse and expensive route to the 
same outcome. The anticipated returns from an FSAVC were high, with relatively low 
contributions. On balance, I dont think its likely he would have opted for a more expensive 
choice, committing himself to higher  and increasing  contributions to reach the same goal. 
Ive also taken into account Mr Ws ongoing membership of the NHS scheme. Having an 
FSAVC didnt prevent him from buying added years at any point after 1997 until that option was withdrawn in 2008. He didnt do so and theres no evidence that he ever considered 
this. Although the NHS would not provide individual specific financial advice about that, its 
likely they would have made him aware as a member of that change.
I appreciate Mr W says he can now see the value of the additional pension hes been paying 
into compared it to the value of the added years he could have bought. But I have to make 
my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time, rather than 
looking at it now with the benefit of hindsight. 
For all these reasons, I think Tilneys offer to carry out a comparison following the FCAs 
FSAVC review guidance is the right outcome in this case. I dont think Tilney needs to carry 
out the comparison with added years as Im not persuaded thats what Mr W would have 
done in 1997, even if he knew he could.
For the avoidance of doubt Ive set out below what Tilney should do.
Putting things right
Tilney should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Tilney  should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.My final decision
Tilney Financial Planning Limited has already made an offer to settle the complaint by 
carrying out a redress calculation and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Tilney Financial Planning Limited should carry out the calculation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman