DRN-1716572
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC are holding him liable for transactions that he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
On 16 October 2019 Mr A opened an account with Lloyds. Lloyds credited the account with 
the account opening incentive of £125.00 on 21 October 2019. And the outstanding account 
balance from his previous account of £164.80 was transferred to this account on 25 October 
2019.
Lloyds say they sent Mr A a debit card and PIN number by post. They say these were sent 
separately and on different days. Mr A says he didnt receive the card or PIN. He says that 
he lives in a secure building and believes the card and PIN were stolen before they reached 
his home address. 
On 21 October 2019 £120.00 was withdrawn and on 25 October 2019 £160.00 was 
withdrawn. Both these withdrawals were made from an ATM using the card and PIN that 
Lloyds had sent out. On 28 October 2019 Mr A says he logged into his internet banking for 
the first time, noticed the transactions and reported them to Lloyds.  
Lloyds investigated but declined to refund the money to Mr A. They didnt think the evidence 
supported that a third party had made the transactions without Mr As knowledge or consent. 
Mr A made a complaint and later referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators thought it was more likely than not that Mr A had made or otherwise 
authorised the transactions. So he didnt recommend that Lloyds needed to take any action 
to resolve the complaint. As he still disagrees, Mr A has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Generally speaking, Lloyds can only hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them. 
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided by Lloyds that the genuine card and PIN 
were used in the disputed transactions. But Mr A says that he never received either the card 
or the PIN. 
I think there are three main options as to what could have happened here; 
an unknown third party made the transactions; someone known to Mr A made the transactions without his consent; or
Mr A made or authorised the transactions he disputes. 
So, Ill consider each option and will explain which I think is most likely.
I dont think it is most likely that an unknown third party made the transactions. For this to 
have happened, they would have needed to have been aware that Mr A was expecting a 
new card and have had the opportunity to intercept the post on two separate occasions to 
obtain both the card and PIN.
Mr A has said, he lives in a flat with a family member. The post boxes are secure and inside 
the building. The concierge must give anyone entering the building access  including the 
postman. Mr A has never had any issues with his post before  hes received high value 
items without any issues. I appreciate that Mr A believes the card and PIN were 
compromised before they reached his home address. But, given that both were sent at 
different times from different locations, Im not persuaded they would have arrived together. 
Ive also thought about whether someone with access to Mr As home address made the 
transactions. This could include family and friends who might attend the address. Again, this 
would have meant that post was intercepted on more than one occasion. Mr A told us that 
he doesnt discuss his finances with friends or family. So again, the person responsible 
wouldnt have known Mr A was expecting a new card and PIN. Mr A has told us that his 
letter box is locked and that he is the only one who has a key. So I think its unlikely the 
family member Mr A lives with or someone visiting could be responsible. 
Another reason why Im not persuaded the transactions were made by an unknown third 
party is because the disputed transactions only happened on the two days that money was 
paid into the account. There was also no further use or attempted use of the card after Mr A 
reported the matter to Lloyds. As Mr A has said that he doesnt discuss his finances with 
friends or family, I wouldnt have expected anyone other than Mr A to have known when 
money was being paid into the account and know that there were available funds to 
withdraw. Its also unusual for someone who has stolen a card and been able to access 
funds  to stop trying to do so until the card is blocked. 
Ive also seen that Lloyds sent Mr A a text message after the first disputed transaction letting 
him know that the £125 credit had been made. And they sent another message saying that 
his overnight account balance was £5. This should have been enough to make Mr A aware 
that money had been paid into and withdrawn from the account. Given that Mr A didnt report 
it to Lloyds at the time; I think this shows that he had knowledge of those transactions. And if 
he hadnt made them, I think he would have reported it to Lloyds sooner.  
So looking at all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it is most likely that Mr A made 
or authorised the transactions himself. It follows that I think it is fair for Lloyds to hold him 
liable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman