DRN-2425429
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down her property 
insurance claim. 
What happened
In 2015, Mrs H made a claim under the policy for subsidence damage to her conservatory, 
garden path and rear wall. Ageas thought the damage had been caused by historic 
settlement and poor workmanship, rather than subsidence. The claim was therefore turned 
down. 
Then in 2019, Mrs H again contacted Ageas as she thought movement was still taking place. 
Ageas carried out further inspections, but still thought the damage had been caused by 
historic settlement and poor workmanship, rather than subsidence. The claim was therefore 
again turned down. Unhappy with this, Mrs H brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator mediated with Ageas about the matter, and it confirmed that it would 
monitor the property for six months, to see if there was ongoing movement. Alternatively, it 
said that if Mrs H provided it with an expert report confirming there was subsidence, it would 
reimburse her for this. 
Our investigator thought Ageas proposal to carry out monitoring was reasonable, as she 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support Mrs Hs view that there was subsidence. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Under the section What is covered, the policy says:
4 Subsidence or ground heave of the site on which the buildings stand or landslip
Damage to your home caused by the ground moving is covered whether this movement is 
downwards due to subsidence, upwards due to heave or sideways due to landslip. 
Subsidence is the downward movement of a building foundation caused by loss of support of 
the site beneath the foundations. This is usually associated with volumetric changes in the 
subsoil and is covered by the policy. Settlement is movement due to the distribution or re-
distribution loading and stresses within the various elements of construction. This usually 
occurs in the early stages of the life of the building, it is not normally a continuing problem 
and is not covered by the policy.
Under the adjacent section What is not covered, the policy says:
4 Loss or damage
a) Caused by normal settlement, shrinkage or expansion

d) arising from the use of defective materials, defective design or faulty workmanship.
e) to boundary and garden walls, terraces, gates, hedges and fences, paths and drives, 
patios, tennis hard courts and swimming pools unless the home has been damaged at the 
same time by the same cause.

Ageas subsidence specialist (Mr B) carried out an inspection in October 2015. He said there 
was minor separation between the conservatory frame and main house, and slight distortion 
to the floor and cills. He thought the damage was longstanding in nature and was most likely 
due to the initial bedding down (settlement) following construction. Mr B noted the path to the 
side of the house had settled, and that this was isolated from the conservatory. He thought 
this was due to poor or inadequately compacted sub-base material. Again, he thought this 
settlement was longstanding. Finally, the rear retaining wall in the garden was observed to 
be leaning, and Mr B thought this was due to poor construction because the wall was too 
slender for its height.  
Mr B recommended that the mastic pointing between the conservatory frame and house be 
renewed. This was to prevent water ingress, but he said it would also act as a visual monitor 
should additional movement occur. He said that if further separation occurred following this 
work, then Mrs H should contact Ageas again. 
After Mrs H notified Ageas of the damage again in 2019, it arranged for Mr B to re-attend the 
property in September 2019. Mr B noted that no mastic re-pointing had taken place to the 
conservatory and main house wall junctions as hed previously recommended, but he didnt 
think there was any significant increase in damage since 2015. Although Mrs H advised him 
thered been further damage to the path, Mr B wasnt able to confirm this - though he said 
that if the sub-base material were poor, then he thought it would be inevitable that further 
movement would occur. Mr B said that the rear garden wall was leaning significantly due to 
poor construction. 
Mrs H complained that Ageas had sent the same subsidence specialist to inspect the 
property. She didnt think Mr B would change his findings from 2015. She also said a 
surveyor from the local council had confirmed there was subsidence. 
Ageas therefore arranged for a new subsidence specialist to carry out an inspection. This 
took place in October 2019. That specialist thought the condition of the various areas were 
identical to what had been described in the 2015 report. It was explained to Mrs H that 
footpaths and the retaining wall were not covered under the policy for subsidence. 
Given Mrs Hs concerns about Mr B carrying out the second inspection in 2019, I think it was 
reasonable for Ageas to arrange for a different subsidence specialist to visit the property. 
However, that specialists findings supported Mr Bs findings that there was no evidence of 
subsidence. Consequently, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely upon the view of its 
specialists and turn down the claim. 
Mrs H says that two surveyors from the local council have advised her there is subsidence. 
Shes provided a statement from an engineer dated July 2020 which says As discussed we believe that you should contact a building surveyor or engineer to assess the situation as the 
ground has moved.
This statement provides little detail, and doesnt say why the ground has moved. Although 
Mrs H thinks the ground has moved because of subsidence, Mr B thought the movement 
was due to historic settlement.  
Ageas has confirmed that if Mrs H wishes to obtain her own expert report, then if this shows 
there is subsidence, it will reimburse her for the cost of obtaining that report. I think thats 
fair. But currently, Im not persuaded Mrs H has shown that her property suffers from 
subsidence damage and that she has a valid claim under the policy. Whilst I appreciate 
Mrs H has provided photos of the damage and says shes been told by some tradespeople 
that theres subsidence, we place the greatest weight on expert evidence presented to us. 
Ageas specialists have carried out a total of three inspections and there are detailed reports 
to explain why they didnt think there was subsidence. Mrs H has provided a short statement 
from an engineer that says the ground has moved, but the engineer doesnt comment on the 
areas of damage or conclude that theres been subsidence. Consequently, I think greater 
weight ought to be placed on the findings of Ageas specialists.
Mrs H says theres ongoing movement, and since bringing her complaint to this service, has 
said that further movement has taken place. 
When Mr B inspected the property in 2019, he didnt think the damage had worsened since 
2015. Nevertheless, after our investigator mediated with Ageas about the matter, it agreed to 
arrange for monitoring to take place over a six-month period, in order to establish if there is 
ongoing movement as Mrs H says. I think that seems to be a reasonable solution, and I 
understand monitoring has since begun. 
If there is found to be ongoing movement once monitoring has finished, Ageas should then 
do site investigations to establish the cause of that movement and then make a new claims 
decision. 
If Mrs H is unhappy with Ageas claims decision after monitoring has finished, then she can 
bring a new complaint to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
complete the monitoring to see if theres ongoing movement. If there is, it should carry out 
the necessary site investigations to establish the reason for the movement and then make a 
new claims decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman