DRN-4417575
The complaint
Mr F complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled his claim on a motor
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a saloon car, first registered in 2018. It
had a powerful engine and four-wheel drive.
Mr F had the car insured with Admiral for the year from July 2021. He renewed the policy for
the year from July 2022. Any theft claim was subject to an excess of £500.00.
Unfortunately, in December 2022, Mr F reported the car stolen.
Admiral said the cars pre-loss value had been £35,250.00. It deducted the excess of
£500.00 and paid Mr F the balance of £34,750.00.
By early March 2023, Mr F had complained to Admiral that it was under-valuing the car, that
it had mishandled telephone calls, and that it hadnt responded to all points of his complaint.
By a final response dated early April 2023, Admiral upheld the complaint insofar as it was
about the handling of telephone calls and of the complaint. Admiral said it was sending Mr F
£150.00.
Admirals final response turned down the complaint about valuation. It referred to the Glasss
and CAP trade guides and said that the top book valuation across the two guides was
£34,195.00.
In mid-April 2023, Mr F brought to us his complaint about the valuation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Admirals market valuation for Mr Fs car was fair.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F  
and to Admiral on 11 October 2023. I summarise my findings:
I referred to four trade guides. It wasnt fair that Admiral used the two trade guides 
that produced the lower two figures for Mr Fs car. The valuation of £35,250.00 
wasnt fair.
It was fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to increase its valuation from £35,250.00 
to the average of the four trade guide figures - that is £36,619.00 That will require 
Admiral to pay a further £1,369.00. 
Subject to any further information from Mr F or from Admiral, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay 
Mr F:
1. in addition to its payment of £34,750.00, a further £1,369.00 for his lost car; and
2. simple interest on £1,369.00 at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of his claim to the 
date of its further payment. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr F disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The Glass or CAP valuations don't represent the true value of the car, taking into 
account the scarcity and demand for the specific vehicle.
With the money paid out by Admiral, he hasnt been able to replace the car as no one 
is selling a car for anywhere near this price. This will also be the case with the 
additional £1,396.00 as there are no cars for sale for £36,619.00 or anywhere near 
that figure.
The valuations of Cazoo & Auto Trader are both from a place where he can actually 
buy the car. An average between them would make an additional pay-out of 
£4,168.00 much fairer and more accurate.
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service sees a number of complaints about the valuation of used
vehicles. We will look at any relevant evidence.
We generally regard the retail figures in certain trade guides as persuasive. Thats because
theyre based on extensive nationwide research into the likely selling price of a particular
vehicle. Generally, the trade guides reflect the various aspects of supply and demand for a
particular vehicle month by month.
Compared to the trade guides, we often find advertisements less persuasive. Thats because
they contain the sellers asking prices, which may include scope for negotiation downwards.
From a DVLA vehicle check, I see that Mr Fs car was first registered in March 2018, and
that is the date of its most recent V5 registration document. So Mr F bought the car new in
2018, most likely from a dealer franchised by the manufacturer.
I accept that the policy covered the car up to its market value defined as follows: 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based onresearch from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, recorded mileage and good condition of the
car before the theft. For a car like that at the time of its theft, Ive seen retail figures in the
trade guides as follows:
Glasss £33,750.00
CAP £35,000.00
Cazoo £38,410.00
Auto Trader £39,316.00
I dont consider that the lowest figure is so out of line with all the others that I should regard it
as an outlier. Similarly, I dont consider that the highest figure is so out of line with all the
others that I should regard it as an outlier.
So I could take the view (as the investigator did) that all four of the trade guide figures form a
range of reasonable valuations.
However, there is a significant gap between the lower two figures and the higher two figures.
So Ive thought about the other evidence. Mr F provided a couple of advertisements for cars 
over £40,000.00. One of the advertisements was for a car older than Mr Fs and one for a 
car younger than his. Each of them had a lower mileage than his. So I dont consider that the 
advertisements provide enough evidence to show that the two lower trade guide figures are 
less reliable than the higher two.
As the theft was about ten months ago, I dont consider that it would be helpful for me to look 
at recent adverts.
Overall, I find that it wasnt fair that Admiral used the two trade guides that produced the 
lower two figures for Mr Fs car. I consider that the valuation of £35,250.00 wasnt fair.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr F suggests that we should use the Cazoo and 
Auto Trader figures as they are places where he could buy a car. However, thats not our 
approach unless there is evidence that the Glasss and CAP figures are less reliable for a 
particular vehicle.
I havent found that the advertisements provide enough evidence to show that the Glasss 
and CAP figures are less reliable. And I dont find that Mr Fs evidence about trying to find a 
replacement car is detailed enough to show that the Glasss and CAP figures are less 
reliable.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to increase its valuation from £35,250.00 to the 
average of the four trade guide figures - that is £36,619.00 That will require Admiral to pay a 
further £1,369.00.
I find it likely that the valuation of £35,250.00  which Ive found unfair  caused Mr F some 
distress and inconvenience. But I consider that much of this was to do with being kept out of 
money, for which interest is compensation. So I wont direct Admiral also to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.As Mr F has been out of pocket in the amount of £1,369.00, I will direct Admiral to add 
interest at our usual rate.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I  
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr F:
1. in addition to its payment of £34,750.00, a further £1,369.00 for his lost car; and
2. simple interest on £1,369.00 at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of his claim to the 
date of its further payment. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman