DRN-4311665
The complaint
Mr M complains that after making what he thought was the final payment on his agreement, 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as BMW Financial Services (BMW) have told 
him that he still owes further money to them. 
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement in March 2018 to acquire a new car from 
BMW. The agreement was for four years. 
During the term, Mr M had more than one period where he either paid reduced amounts or 
had payment deferrals. These occurred during the Covid-19 pandemic and included a period 
in May to July 2020 where he made reduced payments, followed by another period later in 
2020 into 2021 year where all payments were deferred for several months.
This deferral from later in 2020 led to the agreement extending past four years. Mr M says 
he received a text message in June 2022 asking him to make contact to discuss with BMW 
what he wanted to do at the end of the agreement, and another text and email in late August 
2022 saying that as they had heard no different, they assumed Mr M intended to keep the 
vehicle and so they would take the final balloon payment from his bank account in early 
September 2022.
This payment was taken, and then later that month BMW made contact about some arrears 
still owing on the account. There was some confusion about how much this was, but 
eventually BMW confirmed it was £944.88. Mr M has told us that as far as he was 
concerned, when they gave him a final payment figure in August 2022 and took that amount, 
he believed that was the final amount payable so should have included any arrears. He 
wasnt aware of any money owing and didnt think he should have to pay any more. 
He complained to BMW, and they issued their final response letter in February 2023 not 
upholding his complaint. They explained that he had made the final balloon payment in full, 
but as there were arrears owing from the monthly payments, this was separate to the balloon 
payment, so he still had to pay the money.   
Unhappy with this Mr M brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that they were satisfied the amount 
owing was correct and referred to the shortfall in payments in the May to July 2020 period, 
which totalled the amount in question. As such, they felt it was fair for BMW to expect 
payment of this amount.  
Mr M didnt agree with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He 
highlighted that BMW had indicated that the payment they messaged about was the final 
payment, and he had complied with that. He also said they had then sent confusing 
messages about how much they thought he still owed, so he felt this was being charged just 
to maximise BMWs own position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
In deciding this complaint, Ive looked into the circumstances of the arrears BMW says are 
owed, alongside considering whether Mr M has been treated fairly in these circumstances. 
With regards to the £944.88, I am satisfied that Mr M still owed this money. The 
circumstances here were quite unusual, as during the pandemic, it seems that BMW first 
allowed Mr M to reduce down his payments for three months, and then shortly afterwards 
provided full payment holidays, so then a total of seven monthly payments were deferred as 
well. Both of these scenarios suggest BMW were more than fair in dealing with the financial 
pressures the pandemic put on Mr M. 
I highlight this because I think this is part of the reason for the confusion in what Mr M was 
required to pay, in that there were two different shortfalls in his payments on the agreement 
that needed to be addressed. 
Ive also considered what Mr M told us. He said in June 2022 he received a text message 
asking him to make contact to discuss the upcoming end of his agreement and what he 
wanted to do. I have the contact notes from BMW and can see no contact between Mr M 
and BMW or communications to BMW from Mr M from February 2022 until September 2022. 
This suggests Mr M didnt reach out to discuss the end of the agreement with them. 
This in itself isnt a problem, but then Mr M received a text message in August 2022 with a 
balloon payment or final balance that needed paying, and assumed it includes the various 
deferred payments and arrears he owed. Ive thought about this carefully, as this is the crux 
of the complaint. Mr M feels he should have been able to rely on this message as being 
accurate and it should have included all the money he still owed. 
I agree that in an ideal world this might be the case but having had so many of his payments 
reduced and deferred, I think it would be reasonable for him to make contact with BMW to 
ensure this was indeed the total amount still owed. 
Mr M feels that as the message he received said final payment, that he shouldnt have to 
pay any more. I agree that this would have been an ideal scenario, but I can also appreciate 
that a balloon payment is different from arrears on the monthly payments. And 
fundamentally, I am satisfied that he still owed BMW the money. On that basis, it feels fair 
that Mr M still should still have to pay this money. 
The customer service from BMW was a little below what they might aspire to, in that they 
appear to have taken the balloon payment first and then reminded Mr M that he still owed 
some arrears on the monthly payments. But Mr M could have checked on his account and 
discussed it with BMW at any point before allowing the balloon payment to be taken. They encouraged him to make contact to discuss things, and Ive seen no evidence that he tried to 
do this. 
Mr M had also been made aware during his agreement that he had shortfalls on his 
payments that would need to be addressed. Im not persuaded that because he wasnt 
reminded of this proactively towards the end of the agreement, this should mean he doesnt 
have to pay the money to BMW. 
Mr M was £944.48 short of making all payments for the amount owing on the agreement with 
BMW. He feels that because he made the final payment, this should mean they cant ask 
him for any more money, but I dont agree that this is fair. During the time he had the 
agreement, BMW treated him fairly, allowing him to pay less when he needed to, and to take 
payment holidays when he needed to, to get through the pandemic. 
Now, theyve highlighted that he hasnt repaid all this money back to them, and I think its fair 
that he should pay it. I appreciate that it would have been clearer for BMW to have 
highlighted the arrears to him before taking the final balloon payment, but Ive seen no 
evidence that knowing this would have changed his mind about keeping the car, and he 
hasnt asked to change his mind about that. Mr M feels that he shouldnt have to pay the 
remaining money, and Im afraid I dont agree with this. I wont be asking BMW to do any 
more here.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman