DRN-1557950
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in November 1995 when taking out a credit card. The PPI provided 
repayment cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
I think RBS made Mr P aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Ps credit card application form from the 
time of sale. On the form, in a separate section for the PPI headed Cardholder Protection 
Plan, I can see Mr P signed to say he wanted the PPI. So, I think RBS made it clear to Mr P 
that the PPI was optional and that he actively decided to take it. But this sale was a very long 
time ago, so I can understand why he may not remember this now.
RBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P and I think this is likely to have been the 
case. I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS assessed Mr Ps circumstances and 
made a formal recommendation that he take out the PPI. This means RBS didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed 
to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But from what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think better information would have changed his mind 
about taking it. I say this because:
Mr P appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr P says he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer and also had 
some savings. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other means. 
And it would have protected his card repayments for up to twelve months if he was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And he chose to 
take out the policy so it looks like he was interested in this type of cover and I think 
he would have valued the extra security it gave him.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr P. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
So I dont think Mr P has lost out by anything that RBS may have done wrong when it sold 
him this PPI policy.
This means RBS doesnt have to compensate Mr P for all of the cost of the PPI. But RBS 
has compensated Mr P for some of the cost of the PPI because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair.
 
To put that right, RBS offered to compensate Mr P for the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to 
compensate Mr P for all of the cost he paid for the PPI. But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
does have to compensate Mr P for any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any 
further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman