DRN-4094990
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc would not allow him to correct an error when he 
took funds for an Individual Savings Account (ISA) from his existing ISA, rather than his 
savings account, causing him to lose his annual ISA allowance. 
What happened
Mr H attempted to transfer £20,000 from his savings account into his new cash ISA, but 
mistakenly took the funds from his existing cash ISA. He said that as a consequence he has 
lost his annual ISA allowance of £20,000. Mr H said both accounts had a similar amount of 
money in them which was probably why the error occurred. 
Mr H is disappointed by a lack of support from HSBC in handling his problem. He said hes 
spoken to HSBC several times including its customer services who wont rectify the error. Mr 
H thinks HSBCs online banking system has not been set up properly to avoid this kind of 
mistake and it means he hasnt put anything into his ISA in the financial year. To put things 
right, Mr H asked HSBC to release to him the annual ISA allowance of £20,000. He said that 
to avoid a similar situation with other customers, HSBC should improve its user interface.
HSBC said the payment Mr H made to his new ISA meant it was fully subscribed for the year 
2022/23 under HMRCs rules. It said as Mr H had made the payment and as they are two 
different ISAs this couldnt be corrected. But it paid him £75 for any inconvenience caused.
 
Mr H said as a long-standing customer he feels poorly treated by HSBC and its response 
has been unsatisfactory and lacked empathy. Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said HSBCs system described the 
accounts involved in the transfer and prompted about the withdrawal from the ISA. He said 
the process is clear, operates within HMRC rules, and HSBC couldnt have done more to 
prevent the error. He thought the £75 HSBC paid for Mr Hs inconvenience was reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed with HSBC's claim that it gave clear prompts to prevent this kind of mistake 
and said he would have noticed a warning about a withdrawal from an ISA. He said HSBC 
gives a clear warning on a transfer to a new payee and takes time to check applications for a 
new account, but neither of these happened when he opened a new ISA. Mr H said all his 
ISA accounts should be treated as one, and requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H thinks that HSBC is unwilling to provide a fair and reasonable solution to the issue of 
his mistaken payment. HSBC has said it cant undo the payment that Mr H made and HMRC 
rules mean any funds taken out of an ISA lose their tax-free status.
Mr H acknowledges that it was his error that the payment was made from the incorrect 
account. Although it may sound harsh to Mr H, it is the customers responsibility to ensure 
payment is made as required and he could have checked his accounts at the time of the 
transfer to remove the risk of a mistake. 
Mr H would like HSBC to alert customers when transferring funds into an ISA account to 
check if correct actions are being taken. Ive seen that Mr Hs accounts were named on the 
transfer so he could see where the transfer was coming from. HSBCs system, which was in 
place at the time, followed this with a warning to customers that they are about to withdraw 
from their ISA and that any amount withdrawn cannot be replaced in the same tax year. 
The transfer process then required Mr H to confirm the transfer. I think this system operates 
as a reasonable precaution against mistakes. 
Mr H was transferring from an electronic ISA to a Cash ISA and the rules that HSBC 
operates do not allow these accounts to be amalgamated. I agree with HSBC that it should 
not treat all ISA accounts as one investment as far as the annual limit is concerned. HSBC 
has to comply with HMRC rules, and these distinguish between different ISA accounts.
HSBC paid Mr H £75 for any inconvenience, and I think this was fair. However, I haven't 
seen anything to suggest HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably to Mr H in its handling of his 
ISA, and so I'm unable to uphold the complaint. Im sorry that Mr H has lost his annual ISA 
allowance, but given that this wasnt caused by any action by HSBC I cant require it to take 
any action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman