DRN-3973041
The complaint
Mrs P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for a purchase she didnt receive.
What happened
Mrs P was looking to buy a graphics card and found one at a good price. Mrs P paid using 
her Barclays debit card but never received the graphics card.
Mrs P contacted Barclays and it raised a chargeback. Barclays temporarily refunded the 
amount and also stopped Mrs Ps card. Around two months later Barclays wrote to Mrs P 
and said the chargeback had failed and it would be taking back the refund.
Due to a change in exchange rate, Barclays said it would be taking back more than it 
refunded. Mrs P complained to Barclays, and it sent a final response.
The final response said the correct outcome had been reached and the decision wouldnt be 
overturned. Unhappy with this response, Mrs P brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and thought Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld, but only 
for the difference in exchange rate. The investigator explained Mrs P hadnt paid the retailer 
direct, but instead her card payment had gone to a money transfer company.
When Barclays raised the chargeback, it contacted this money transfer company and was 
told the payment had been completed correctly. Because of this, the chargeback failed, and 
Barclays took back the temporary refund it had given Mrs P.
The investigator didnt think Barclays needed to refund Mrs P in full, but thought it was unfair 
Barclays was taking back more money than Mrs P had originally paid and been refunded. 
Barclays agreed to refund the difference and 8% simple interest.
Mrs P disagreed, and a representative added further information for the investigator to 
consider. For ease, Ill only refer to Mrs P even where her representative may have made 
the submissions to this service.
Mrs P said she didnt receive the goods and couldnt understand why the card protection 
scheme would deny a refund when she hadnt received anything. Mrs P thought it was 
negligent of Barclays not to protect her from fraud.
Mrs P had contacted Barclays as soon as she could when she realised she might have been 
the victim of fraud.
Mrs P said Barclays had said it received information to show proof of delivery, but this 
couldnt be true. Mrs P also didnt know why Barclays tried to chargeback against the money 
transfer company and not the retailer she tried to purchase from.
Mrs P also said it was impossible for her to know she was paying a money transfer company 
and not the retailer direct. Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its very likely Mrs P was the victim of fraudulent practice by the retailer she thought 
she was paying. From what Ive seen Mrs Ps card transaction was to a money transfer 
company, and not the website apparently selling the graphics card.
I think its likely the retailers link to make a payment, or payment processor, directed her 
card payment to the money transfer company. And I agree it would have been difficult for 
Mrs P to know this when she made the purchase.
But Im satisfied Mrs P authorised the payment to the money transfer company. Theres 
been no dispute her card details were entered by Mrs P, so I cant say the payment was 
unauthorised.
I accept Mrs P didnt get what she thought shed paid for and contacted Barclays as soon as 
she knew this. And, in normal circumstances, the chargeback process could be used to 
dispute payments for goods not received.
But Mrs P didnt pay the retailer direct. Instead, Mrs P paid a money transfer company, to 
complete a payment overseas, and this payment was successfully completed. So the seller 
was the money transfer company, it sold a transfer service which Mrs P authorised.
The only company Barclays could contact was the money transfer company. Im satisfied the 
response Barclays got was the payment Mrs P authorised was completed correctly and 
couldnt be refunded.
I cant see Barclays told Mrs P the goods had been delivered, or it had proof of delivery. Ive 
seen the letters Barclays sent Mrs P about the chargeback, and they say the refund is 
temporary. Another letter says the money transfer company has disputed the refund.
There may be some confusion about the service Mrs P authorised. The service provided by 
the money transfer company was, I think, completed successfully. But this was the transfer 
of money to an unknown third party  not the supply of the graphics card.
The response from the money transfer company didnt say anything about the purchase of 
the graphics card or any delivery. The response simply said the transfer had been 
completed, as authorised, and there was no refund due.
I can understand Mrs Ps frustration, she thought shed purchased a graphics card and never 
received it. But I dont think this is what the card payment was for. And because the card 
payment wasnt made to the retailer, Barclays couldnt request a refund from the retailer.
I dont think Barclays has been negligent in failing to protect Mrs P from fraud. Mrs P 
authorised a card payment and Barclays tried to recover this for her.
Its unfortunate the chargeback process didnt work for Mrs P, but this isnt Barclays fault. 
The rules for chargebacks are laid down by the card issuer, in this case Visa.
Im satisfied Barclays did all it could to try and get a refund for Mrs P, submitted the 
chargeback in good time and appropriately considered the response from the money transfer 
company. Unfortunately, the response was Mrs P wasnt entitled to a refund.When Barclays took back the temporary refund it took £13.71 more than it had initially 
refunded. This is because the money transfer was made for a specific amount in Euros, and 
the exchange rate had changed between the original purchase and the debit by Barclays.
Barclays has since agreed to refund this amount, and 8% simple interest because Mrs P has 
been deprived of the £13.71. In the circumstances, I think this is a fair offer.
But I dont think Barclays needs to refund Mrs P the initial card payment she made. The 
service Mrs P paid for was completed, even though it seems this wasnt what Mrs P either 
wanted, or knew shed made.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Barclays should refund Mrs P £13.71 and 
pay 8% simple interest on this amount from 27 September 2022, the day Barclays took back 
the temporary refund, to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman