DRN-4119192
The complaint
Miss B complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hastings Direct,  
incorrectly told her reporting an incident as notification only wouldnt impact her car 
insurance premium at renewal. 
Miss B has been represented by Mr C. For ease, Ill refer to Miss B throughout this decision.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss B told Advantage her car was damaged as someone had hit it when 
parked. She says this was on police advice. At that point, she didnt want to make a claim on 
the policy. Advantage said itd record the incident on the insurance database - known as the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) - as notification only and this wouldnt affect her 
premium going forward.
When the time came to renew her policy in February 2023, Miss Bs quote had increased by 
just over £250 more than the year before. After contacting Advantage about this, it accepted 
shed been given incorrect information by the call handler as notification only records can 
affect premiums. To put things right, it gave feedback to the call handlers manager and gave 
Miss B £30 compensation for the incorrect advice. It also reviewed the renewal quote and 
was able to reduce it to just over £80 more than the year before. 
Miss B was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She said some 
companies have refused to insure her and she cant afford the increased premium with 
Advantage. This means shes unable to make shopping trips or take her daughter to school. 
And, as Advantage accepted it got things wrong, she doesnt understand why it wont 
remove the notification marker. 
While the complaint was with this service, Advantage investigated matters again and noticed 
the notification had been recorded as fault and so this was corrected. It gave Miss B further 
compensation of £70 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ultimately, by February 
2023, the renewal quote was reduced to less than £20 more than it was the year before.
Miss B was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
looked into matters and thought it fair and reasonable Advantage recorded the incident on 
CUE once it was made aware of it, which had affected Miss Bs premium. So, they didnt 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Miss B disagreed. She says Advantage should remove the notification only as it accepts it 
gave her the wrong information. Mr C says this has been done for him when something 
similar happened so its possible for Advantage to do this. Miss B said this is impacting her 
health and will be taken to an external agency if the decision isnt changed. 
This matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Miss B that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont require Advantage to do anything further to put things right. Ill explain why.
After finding out the premium quoted had increased significantly since the previous year, I 
can see why Miss B would want to understand the reasons for this. After the complaint was 
made, Advantage realised it had got two things wrong. Firstly, the call handler incorrectly 
told Miss B a notification only on CUE wouldnt affect her premium. Secondly, it recorded 
the notification as fault. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the mistake had on the consumer. So, Ive looked at the effect the incorrect information had 
on Miss Bs decision about the claim. Miss B says if shed been told her premium would be 
affected by recording the incident as notification only, she wouldnt have agreed to it.
Like all car insurance policies on the market, the terms of Miss Bs insurance policy required 
her to report any incident no matter how minor and regardless of blame and whether or not 
you want to make a claim. Having been required to report the incident, Advantage was then 
obliged to record this on CUE. So, even if Miss B had been given the correct information that 
a notification only could impact her premium at renewal, she had already notified 
Advantage of the incident  as she was required to do  and Advantage had to record it on 
CUE. So, I cant say the incorrect information affected Miss Bs position. 
I recognise the incident status was incorrectly recorded as fault and this was only changed 
after Miss B complained. I think Advantage shouldve updated this sooner than it did. But 
ultimately, Miss Bs renewal premium was changed to reflect the updated status before 
policy renewal and I havent seen any evidence she paid for a policy which  incorrectly  
cost more as a result of this mistake.
In summary, Advantage corrected the notification only status, which reduced the premium, 
apologised for its mistakes, paid Miss B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
gave feedback to the call handler. I think this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint in all the circumstances and so I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
   
Mr C says something similar happened to him and an incorrect claim was removed. But we 
look at the circumstances of each individual case. Having done so, I dont require Advantage 
to do anything more to put things right in this matter.
I know Miss B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Advantage  can do for her.
Finally, I note Miss B raised the issue of trying to obtain a quote from Advantage for a new 
car. It isnt something I can consider in this decision - Miss B will need to raise this with 
Advantage in the first instance. 
My final decision
My decision is Advantage Insurance Company Limited doesnt need to do anything more 
than it has already done to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman