DRN-3491380
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund two payments out of her account which 
she says she didnt make.
What happened
In April 2021, two payments were made out of Mrs Js account to a cryptocurrency 
exchange, which she says she didnt make.  Both payments were made on the same day 
and were for £1,750 and £2,750.
Santander investigated but said the payments were both made using a device that was 
registered by logging into Mrs Js genuine mobile banking account and using a code that 
was sent to the phone number it had registered for her. It couldnt see how someone else 
would have been able to access these, so it didnt agree to refund the payments. Mrs J 
wasnt happy with Santanders response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said it was unlikely anyone else 
would have been able to get access to Mrs Js genuine phone on a number of occasions 
over several days, as they would have needed to in order to register the new device the 
payments were made with. So they thought it was likely either Mrs J or someone close to her 
had made the payments and they didnt think Santander should have to refund them. Mrs J 
didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
Santander has sent us technical evidence showing how the payments were made. And from 
this, Im satisfied both payments were made using Mrs Js genuine mobile banking details. 
But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Santander to hold Mrs J responsible. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mrs J 
consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Santanders evidence shows both payments were made using a device that was registered 
to Mrs Js mobile banking just over a week earlier. And it shows that, when the new device 
was registered, someone successfully logged on to Mrs Js mobile banking, generated a 
code that was sent to Mrs Js genuine phone and then successfully entered that code. So in 
order for someone else other than Mrs J to have done this, they would have needed access 
to her genuine phone and to know the security details to log-in to her mobile banking. And I 
think its unlikely someone would have had this information and been able to do this without 
Mrs Js knowledge.
Mrs J has said she leaves her phone in her locker when shes at work, and does sometimes 
leave her locker unlocked, so this may be how someone else got access to her phone. But 
codes were sent to her genuine phone in relation to activity carried out on the newly 
registered device on a number of occasions. So someone would have needed to take 
Mrs Js phone from her locker and then replace it without her knowing several times, which I 
think is unlikely. And, even if that did happen, I cant see how that person would know 
Mrs Js security details to log-in to her mobile banking.
Mrs J also said she responded to a number of emails and phone calls she received asking 
for codes, which may have been the mobile banking codes. But shes not been able to 
provide evidence of any of these emails or phone calls, or give details on what was said or 
why she thought she needed to give out the codes. And shes given conflicting explanations 
of what happened throughout her complaint. So I dont find her explanations of what 
happened convincing.
The nature of these payments is also not the sort of thing an opportunistic thief would 
normally do after gaining access to someones bank account. Generally, the way fraudsters 
operate is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the 
money being cut-off or them being detected. But here, the new device was registered to 
Mrs Js mobile banking for just over a week before any payments were attempted with it. 
There were a number of log-ins to Mrs Js mobile banking using the new device during that 
week, where no payments were attempted. And the payments that were made were for 
relatively small amounts, considering the available balance of Mrs Js account. So I dont 
think its likely these payments were done by an opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Mrs J feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in her favour. 
And, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Mrs J either made the transactions 
herself or authorised someone else to do so.
So I dont think Santander needs to refund the payments to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman