DRN-4377149
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release mortgage that Mr and Mrs G hold with 
more 2 life Ltd (M2L). They took it out in 2018, and then applied to port  that is, move the 
debt over to a new mortgage on a different property. The essence of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint is that M2L reduced the amount of the ported lending by around £54,000 on the 
day they completed. This has left them with very little of the money they were expecting to 
free up after moving house.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 18 September 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs G and M2L. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, 
which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr and Mrs G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of 
the key events, rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G took the mortgage out in 2018; they borrowed a little over £158,000. In 
late 2021, they decided to move to a lower-priced property. At this stage, the 
mortgage debt had grown to around £196,000. In January 2022, M2L issued an offer 
for a mortgage on the new home. As the value was less than the existing one, 
around £36,000 of the balance would have to be repaid in order to keep within M2Ls 
loan-to-value (LTV) limit of 40%. 
This mean the new debt would be just under £160,000, but the offer contained a 
narrative indicating that the actual amount to be lent could vary and would be 
decided on the date of completion.
Mr and Mrs Gs house move was long and protracted; the valuation of the new 
property had to be renewed, as did the offer, but the underlying figures didnt 
materially change. In December 2022, M2Ls solicitors wrote to Mr and Mrs Gs 
solicitors confirming they could proceed to exchange of contracts. On the scheduled 
completion date in January 2023, M2L issued a revised offer, showing the amount to 
be lent as being limited to 26.6% LTV, which mean just over £106,000 was released. 
Mr and Mrs G had no option but to accept the mortgage offer, as they were 
committed to completing the transaction, but later complained that theyd been left 
short of the money theyd been expecting. M2L didnt uphold the complaint and when 
it came to us our investigator, whilst sympathetic towards Mr and Mrs Gs situation, 
didnt think M2L had done anything wrong that the terms of the offer hadnt provided 
for.
Mr and Mrs G have asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They 
argue, in summary, that the reason M2L varied the amount lent wasnt one that was 
annotated in the offer as being subject to variation. They exchanged contracts in 
reliance on M2Ls offer; as a consequence, they say M2L is estopped from reducing 
the loan for the reason it used.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion from the investigators. Im using 
this provisional decision to let the parties know how I am presently intending to 
determine the complaint, so they have the opportunity to comment before I do so. 
M2Ls position is that the documentation always made it clear that the final lending 
amount could be different from what it was offering, and thats fine as far as it goes. 
But when I take into account what Mr and Mrs G have said about how the potential 
for variation was presented to them Im not sure how they could possibly have known 
that the LTV might change. Ill explain what I mean. 
The offer detailed the critical dates and values in bullet points, annotating certain 
values with an asterisk. Below those values, the following narrative explained the 
relevance of the asterisks. 
 *Please note this figure is subject to change and a final figure will be issued once a 
completion date is set.
No asterisk was annotated to the maximum LTV or maximum total facility, so thered 
have been no reason for Mr and Mrs G to think these might change. But thats not all; 
the only values annotated with asterisks were the current outstanding balance and 
the partial repayment amount. Its to be expected that the outstanding balance would 
vary from day to day, but the thing to remember is that the partial repayment amount 
is the difference between the outstanding balance and the maximum total facility. So 
if the offer makes clear that the outstanding balance and partial repayment amounts 
are both variable, the undeniable inference to draw is that the maximum total facility 
is not variable.
Put all that together and the conclusion I have reached is that once M2Ls solicitors 
wrote to Mr and Mrs G solicitors on 22 December 2022 confirming that exchange of 
contracts could take place, M2L was estopped from reducing the maximum total 
facility for the reason it gave; that is, a reduction in the maximum LTV. I think its 
unlikely M2Ls solicitors wouldnt have understood the implications for Mr and Mrs G 
of committing themselves to their purchase, or that Mr and Mrs G did so acting in 
reliance on the maximum LTV and maximum total facility values given in the January 
2022 offer. 
As M2L hasnt given any other reason for reducing the maximum total facility, it 
treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly, and subjected them to considerable hardship and 
worry when it did so. 
In the circumstances, there is only one remedy I can fairly order M2L to provide; that 
is, to reinstate the original LTV of 40%, and lend Mr and Mrs G the difference 
between the January 2022 and January 2023 offers by issuing a further advance. Also, Ive considered the impact this situation has had on Mr and Mrs G; the whole 
experience will, Im sure, have caused Mr and Mrs G a lot of worry and stress that 
could have been avoided if M2L treated them fairly in the first place.  They are due 
compensation for that, which, having considered their testimony about how theyve 
been affected financially, Im minded to set at £500.
Both parties have responded to the provisional decision. M2L has told us it will reconstitute 
the mortgage from the outset at the level it originally offered in January 2022, to provide 
Mr and Mrs G with the extra funds they were expecting from the January 2022 offer. 
Mr and Mr G though the compensation of £500 should be higher, and that M2L should be 
ordered to reimburse them the interest  close to £6,000  theyve continued to accrue on 
their outstanding consumer credit debts that should have been repaid when the mortgage 
was released. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be changing my decision. But I will respond to the further points from 
both parties.
Im pleased that M2L has accepted my provisional decision and agreed to settle the 
complaint. However the remedy it has said it will do doesnt appear to be quite what I 
proposed in the provisional decision. If Ive understood it correctly, M2L has said it will 
reconstitute the mortgage at the full amount of the January 2022 offer, from the completion 
date. What I said in the provisional decision is that it should issue a further advance for the 
differential amount.
Theres an important distinction between the two, and the reason why I went for the further 
advance goes to Mr and Mrs Gs point about the extra interest theyve accrued with their 
current creditors in the interim. If M2L reconstitutes the loan at the full amount from the 
mortgage start date, the additional lending will accrue compound interest for life from that 
date. If the additional lending is issued as a further advance, it will still accrue compound 
interest for life, but the later start date means the interest will be substantially lower. 
Over time, the saving will build to the point where it offsets the extra interest Mr and Mrs G 
have incurred with existing creditors, thus removing the need for a separate award to 
reimburse them. I opted for awarding redress on the basis I did specifically to avoid the need 
for the more complicated alternative. 
 
Lastly, Ive noted what Mr and Mrs G have said about how theyve been affected by not 
having the money theyd expected to have been made available. Ive no doubt its been a 
difficult time for them, and I note the example they gave of how theyve had to restrict their 
lifestyle. Overall, however, I think my original assessment of £500 is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering more 2 life Ltd to do the 
following:
issue a further advance to lend Mr and Mrs G the difference between the January 2022 
and January 2023 offers; and
pay Mr and Mrs G £500 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman