DRN-4303075
The complaint
X, Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to IPA includes all its agents.
X has been the main complainant dealing with this complaint. So, I will refer to X throughout 
the decision although all three complainants are joined in. 
What happened
X booked a trip with his wife and son for departure on 14 December 2022 and returning to 
the UK on 20 December 2022. They arrived at the airport, but X was denied boarding. This 
was due to an error with his name on the ticket compared to the name recorded on his 
passport. 
Neither their travel agent nor their airline was able to amend the ticket there and then. So, X 
had to either remain behind or purchase a new return ticket. X decided to purchase a new 
ticket and went ahead with the trip with his wife and son.
Upon his return, X submitted a claim to IPA for the cost of the new ticket. It provided a final 
response which said the event that led to making the claim wasnt covered under 
X, Mrs H and Mr Hs policy. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, X brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think IPA had declined the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably because the circumstances of what happened are not covered 
under their policy. 
X disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of X, Mrs H and Mr Hs policy as this 
forms the basis of their travel insurance contract with IPA.
The relevant term is set out on page 44 and 45, section 3  Disruption or delay to travel 
plans. 
On page 44, it sets out information on The Denied Boarding Regulation. This explains 
minimum rights for air passengers to ensure they are treated fairly and that they may be 
entitled to compensation from the airline. Point one gives an example of being denied 
boarding and says, Denied Boarding - have you been denied boarding because the airline 
did not have enough seats on the flight? I have commented on this because section 3 then 
goes on to explain in what event cover will be provided. 
This says:
3. Travel Disruption
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Table of Benefits for your reasonable 
additional accommodation and public transport travel expenses (up to the standard of 
your original booking) so that you may continue your trip if your trip is disrupted due 
to:
 a catastrophe or
 the public transport on which you were booked to travel being cancelled or delayed 
for at least 12 hours, diverted or redirected after take-off or
 you are involuntarily denied boarding and no suitable alternative is offered within 12 
hours.
Based on the above section, Ive considered whether the claim X has made is covered under 
X, Mrs H and Mr Hs policy. I understand the reason for X being denied boarding was due to 
there being a name mismatch between his ticket and his passport. The error made was 
substantial enough which meant that it couldnt be accepted or amended before the 
departure time. I can see there was communication between X and the ticket provider (a 
third-party agent travel agent) which states that it hadnt made the error. But I accept its not 
entirely clear who made the error between X and the ticket provider. It is clear however that 
the airline itself hadnt made the error and therefore X wasnt denied boarding to the fault of 
the airline.
So, while X was denied boarding, this isnt because of the airline over-booking seats, for 
example, and then having to provide suitable alternative accommodation. And because of 
the reference to the second part of the same term no suitable alternative is offered within 12 
hours, I think its reasonable to say that being denied boarding refers to circumstances 
where the airline has, for example, overbooked, and therefore needs to offer passengers 
suitable alternative accommodation. 
I acknowledge X thinks the wording of the policy here isnt clear. Ive thought about this, and 
I dont agree.  An error was caused and while I understand this is difficult to bear in the 
circumstances here, Im not persuaded the cost is covered under X, Mrs H and Mr Hs policy 
or that IPA is responsible for covering the claim. Section 3 refers to circumstances where the 
passenger is denied boarding by the airline due to, for example, overbooking or rescheduling 
or cancelling flights and where no suitable alternative was offered within 12 hours. This isnt 
what happened in Xs situation here. 
Ive looked at the remaining terms and conditions of the policy to see if cover applies 
elsewhere. While I appreciate X, Mrs H and Mr H will be disappointed, I dont think there is 
cover for what happened in the circumstances under their policy. I do understand that X paid 
for the ticket in good faith and renounced the option of making a claim against other 
stakeholders. As far as I can see, the responsibility of making sure the name was correct on 
the ticket and that it matched Xs passport, was both Xs and the agents. I also appreciate 
that errors can happen, but insurance doesnt provide cover for every eventuality. And, in 
this case, there is no cover for what happened. 
Overall, Im satisfied that IPA hasnt declined X, Mrs H and Mr Hs claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. It follows, therefore that I dont require IPA to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold X, Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X, Mrs H and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman