DRN-3088498
The complaint
Miss G complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss G was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS. The contract matured in May 2021.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. MBFS asked Miss G to pay damage 
charges of £1542.00.
Miss G disputed the charges. She said shed returned the car in excellent condition and that 
the mileage was lower than the contractual mileage. She said shed noticed two scratches 
on the car, which she had applied touch up paint to on the advice of her main dealership. 
She said shed never received the literature pack which MBFS said was missing, and she 
thought the charges to repair the damage were too expensive.
MBFS looked into the complaint and said the charges had been raised in line with vehicle 
return standards. It also said the cost of repairs were benchmarked against industry 
standard guidelines.
Miss G wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she thought the charges had been 
applied fairly.
Miss G didnt agree. She said she wanted to see evidence of the repairs which MBFS had 
carried out. She also said that MBFS should take the low mileage of the car into 
consideration. She said shed never received the literature pack.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Miss G must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which goes beyond acceptable wear and tear, and any 
missing items, are the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear. Ive 
also had regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered to be 
acceptable wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies damage to the 
wheels, the door and the quarter panel. It also says that the literature pack is missing. 
Looking at the damage identified, and having regard to the relevant guidelines, Im satisfied 
that all of the damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the relevant 
guidelines.
Miss G has said she thinks she should have been advised of MBFSs expectations regarding 
bodywork when the car was returned. MBFS has said that it provided Miss G with a copy of 
the vehicle returns standards at the start of the agreement and again six months prior to the 
end of the agreement. Miss G hasnt said that she didnt receive the vehicle returns 
standards. Because of this, I think Miss G wouldve been aware of MBFSs expectations 
when she returned the car.
Miss G has also said that she never received the literature pack and she doesnt think its fair 
that shes been charged for this missing item. Ive thought about what Miss G has said, but I 
cant see any evidence that she reported the literature pack as missing at the start of the 
agreement. MBFS has said that all new cars are provided with a literature pack. The vehicle 
returns standards say that if the literature pack isnt returned with the car, a charge will be 
applied. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the literature pack was supplied with 
the car. It wasnt returned with the car, so I think the charges have been fairly applied.
In relation to the cost of repairs, I understand that Miss G thinks these are too high. Shes 
asked to see receipts to prove that the repairs were carried out. Ive looked at the MBFS 
price matrix and I can see that the charges have been applied in line with this. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that the prices in the matrix are unfair or unreasonable. In relation 
to receipts for repairs carried out, I think the price matrix is sufficient evidence of the cost of 
repairs. Further, MBFS isnt obliged to carry out the repairs. The cost of repairs reflects the 
reduction in the sale value of the car which can be attributed to the damage.
Ive taken account of Miss Gs comments about the low mileage of the car. This isnt 
something which is taken account of when the car is returned, unless the contractual 
mileage has been exceeded, in which case excess mileage charges will be applied as per 
the agreement. Theres no provision in the agreement to offset mileage which is less than 
the contractual mileage against damage charges.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the charges have been applied fairly. I wont 
be asking MBFS to waive any charges. If Miss G cant pay all of the charges in one go, she 
will need to approach MBFS to negotiate a payment plan. This is a decision for MBFS. I 
cant oblige MBFS to agree to this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman