DRN-3620132
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network because he 
says it mis-sold him income protection insurance.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr A was recommended an income protection insurance policy by 
PRIMIS following a call with one of its advisers. This was an advised sale. 
In April 2021, Mr A needed to make a claim on his policy. The claim was declined by the 
insurer because of Mr As profession. Mr A worked on an oil rig and the insurer said this was 
one of its excluded professions. Mr A complained to the insurer and the broker. 
The insurer recognised that Mr A hadnt deliberately tried to mis-lead it and so returned all 
the premiums hed paid for the policy. 
Mr A said that he told PRIMIS about his occupation as an oil rig worker and that because 
this was a specialised profession, the adviser told him there wasnt an option in the 
occupations list to select it. Instead, Mr A explained the adviser selected the next appropriate 
option, which was technician  other. Mr A said the insurer didnt question the application 
and neither did he when the sales paperwork came through. Mr A was under the impression 
the policy was suitable for his needs, given PRIMIS was recommended by a colleague and 
hed explained his profession to PRIMISs adviser. 
PRIMIS said it was Mr As responsibility to ensure the policy paperwork was correct and that 
the mistake was Mr As. It said all the sales literature was sent directly to him for that 
purpose. 
Our investigator disagreed with PRIMIS. He was persuaded there was enough evidence to 
show PRIMIS had made a mistake by offering a policy that was unsuitable. His opinion was 
that PRIMIS should therefore pay Mr A £7908.60 plus interest because he believed Mr A 
would have had a valid claim under his insurance policy, had the adviser recommended a 
suitable policy. The investigators calculation was based on the policy benefit amount and 
the amount of time off Mr A was incapacitated. 
PRIMIS disagreed with this recommendation. It said that Mr A was dishonest about his 
profession and in 2019, had said he worked on a wind turbine farm, not an oil rig. It said had 
it been told his true profession it would have recommended a more suitable policy. It also 
said Mr A didnt tell it the paperwork completed was incorrect. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint and for the same reasons given by 
our investigator. Let me explain.
When Mr A contacted PRIMIS, its adviser recommended an income protection policy. 
Various options were presented to him and ultimately Mr A chose the policy which gave him 
the level of cover he needed, for the price he could afford. Because PRIMIS made a 
recommendation to Mr A, this is an advised sale. 
There are clear obligations placed on the adviser by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
when advising on cover.
The FCA Handbook (PRIN 2.1) says 
6. A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
It goes on to say (Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook)
5.1.1 (1) In line with Principle 6, a firm should take reasonable steps to ensure that a 
customer only buys a policy under which he is eligible to claim benefits.
5.1.1 (2) If, at any time while arranging a policy, a firm finds that parts of the cover 
apply, but others do not, it should inform the customer so he can take an informed 
decision on whether to buy the policy.
5.3.1 A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for any 
customer who is entitled to rely on its judgement.
The crux of this complaint is whether Mr A gave PRIMISs adviser accurate information 
about his employment. And if he did, the policy sold to him wasnt suitable for his needs.  As 
a result, when Mr A needed to make a claim, the claim was declined, and the policy avoided.
PRIMIS say Mr A didnt give its adviser accurate information about his employment but Ive 
not seen any persuasive evidence to support its position. Unfortunately, PRIMIS hasnt been 
able to locate a copy of the sales call so Ive based my decision on the other evidence 
available to me.
Email exchanges related to the sale, show Mr A included his qualifications on his 
email signature so this wouldnt suggest he was trying to hide his employment or 
mislead the adviser.
The adviser said he recorded his profession as a rope access technician which is 
not wholly incorrect, but he hadnt recorded that Mr A worked offshore in the oil and 
gas industry. Im satisfied Mr A had worked offshore for several years before taking 
out the policy so PRIMIS suggestion that Mr A changed employment between the 
policy being sold and his claim isnt supported by the evidence.
Mr A says the adviser recorded his profession as technician  other as there was no 
specific entry for oil rig worker. The documentation Ive seen including the product 
comparison report completed by the adviser, does indeed show Mr As profession 
listed as technician  other so Im persuaded by Mr As testimony. PRIMIS has also 
confirmed that rope access technician is not specifically included in the occupation 
list either. The closest is technician  other or roofer over 40 ft. So, this again fits 
with Mr As recollection of the conversation with PRIMISs adviser. Both options 
would have still meant Mr A would be without cover in the event of a claim.
Mr A says PRIMISs adviser told him hed sold policies to many people in the same industry. And again, I find that testimony credible. A text message exchange from the 
adviser to Mr A about his claim confirms the adviser has lots of clients with the same 
occupation.
PRIMIS say Mr A should have checked the policy terms and conditions sent to him 
after the sale and had he done so he would have realised that oil rig worker was a 
declined profession. However, the welcome letter suggests Mr A speaks with the 
adviser if hes unsure if the policy is right for him. It doesnt direct him to review the 
policy terms and conditions. Given the wider circumstances of this complaint, and 
that the adviser recommended the policy to Mr A, I can understand why he didnt 
review the policy terms and conditions in detail at the time. 
All in all, I have not seen any evidence which shows Mr A was dishonest about his 
profession or sought to obtain insurance by knowingly providing misleading information. Its 
important to note that Mr A was keen to protect his familys financial future and proactively 
contacted PRIMIS to do so. PRIMISs adviser gave recommendations for income protection 
insurance, critical illness insurance and life insurance in line with Mr As demands and 
needs. Ive not seen anything that persuades me Mr A was looking to take out insurance 
which may ultimately not have covered his needs in the event of a claim.
Putting things right
Because Mr A has lost out on being able to make a claim under the terms of the income 
protection policy recommended to him by PRIMISs adviser, my decision is that PRIMIS 
should compensate Mr A for his losses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network must now pay Mr A £7908.60 plus 8% simple interest a year from the 
date of the claim to the date of payment.
First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
is must also pay interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
simple a year.
If First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its 
taken off.  It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman