DRN-3818428
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a 
claim made on her income protection policy.
What happened
For many years Mrs N had the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) which  
subject to the remaining terms of the policy - can pay out a monthly benefit once shed been 
off work for 13 weeks (the deferred period). 
Mrs N submitted a claim to L&G in early 2020 in respect of a period of absence from work 
which began at the end of July 2018, coinciding with hip surgery. She says she was unable 
to work from that date and didnt return to work, on lighter duties and working less hours, 
until around March 2019. 
Although Mrs N submitted her claim long after the time stipulated in the policy terms, L&G 
agreed to consider it. However, it ultimately declined the claim because, based on the 
medical evidence, Mrs N hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs N appealed but 
L&G maintained its position to decline the claim. However, it did accept that it had been 
responsible for unacceptable delays and offered Mrs N £300 in recognition of this. 
Unhappy, Mrs N brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs N disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to 
review the complaint. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that L&G has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
If Mrs N meets the definition of incapacity, the monthly benefit will become payable following 
the deferred period. Under the policy (in conjunction with the policy schedule), Mrs N will be 
considered incapacitated if:
after a review of all medical and associated evidence, and as a direct result of your injury 
or illness, we [L&G] agree that you have no capacity for working in your own occupation 
on any basis; and 
a) You were in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the time of incapacity; 
and
b) You are not working in any other occupation.
Theres no dispute in respect of a) and b) above. So, I think the crux of the issue I have to 
determine is whether, throughout the deferred period, Mrs N met the definition of being 
incapacitated  which is defined by the policy as:
Your inability to follow your gainful employment or gainful self employment caused by 
illness or injury.
Its for Mrs N to establish that she has a valid claim under the policy, taking into account the 
above policy definitions. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont uphold this complaint. I know Mrs N will be very 
disappointed and I dont doubt shes been through a very difficult time since first injuring her 
hip. But overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for L&G to decline her claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude that Mrs N didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. Its not disputed that Mrs N experienced hip pain and 
after surgery, she required physiotherapy. Nor that there was a period of time 
immediately after surgery where her movement was limited and she was in pain. But 
the medical evidence doesnt give a clear picture about how her symptoms 
specifically impacted her ability to carry out her own occupation throughout the 
deferred period.  
The claim form completed by Mrs N in early 2020 reflects that she was unable to 
drive, walk, sit and concentrate as a result of her incapacity. She also says that 
chronic and acute pain made any kind of movement difficult and, at times, 
impossible.
However, for her claim to be established, incapacity must have continued throughout 
the deferred period. Theres little in Mrs Ns GP records during the deferred period 
reflecting how she was feeling at the time or how her recovery from surgery was 
impacting her ability to work. 
A letter from her consultant orthopaedic surgeon dated September 2018 (so during 
the deferred period) reflects that surgery had had a positive effect on Mrs N and 
whilst she had been on crutches for six weeks since her operation, she can now go 
on full weight bearing and have physio. Its also reflected that shed had a significant 
reduction in her pain levels. 
Physiotherapy notes from around this time also reflect that Mrs N was progressing 
well and that her symptoms were generally improving. She was mobilising 
independently for short distances and there were no issues with stairs.  Its reflected 
that she had no pain when resting, although aches at times. And that she was best 
in the morning, after some initial stiffness.
I appreciate that for a period of time after the end of the deferred period and before 
she returned back to work in March 2019 (with reduced duties and hours), the 
medical records reflect that there had been a deterioration and Mrs N was reporting 
increasing levels of pain. I was very sorry to read this. However, I dont think its 
unreasonable for L&G to place more weight on the medical evidence during the 
deferred period as thats the relevant period when considering whether a claim has 
been established under the policy. 
DelaysIn its final response letter to Mrs N dated July 2021, L&G accepted that, at times, it delayed 
progressing Mrs Ns claim  particularly from the end of August 2020 when it says it had the 
information required to assess her claim. It took until December 2020 to decline the claim. 
L&G says that was unintentional but unacceptable in the circumstances. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied L&Gs decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable. But had it assessed the claim and communicated the outcome to Mrs Ns claim 
more promptly, she wouldve received the decision on her claim sooner. I accept this 
wouldve been a worrying time for Mrs M, which wouldve been exacerbated by the delays 
caused by L&G assessing the claim. However, Im satisfied the £300 compensation offered 
to Mrs N fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman