DRN-3176290
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. havent refunded the premiums for their annual travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre, in 
September 2019. The policy came in to force in October 2019. 
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) 
advised UK citizens against all travel. This guidance remained in force until July 2020 and 
throughout 2020 there was ongoing disruption to international travel. In summary, Mr and 
Mrs D say that they didnt receive the benefit of cover during the policy year. 
Mr and Mrs D asked Mapfre to refund the premiums  they explained theyd not been able to 
claim on the policy and theyd sought refunds from the various travel providers theyd 
booked with. Mapfre said they couldnt refund the premiums as the policy was about to 
expire. Mr and Mrs D complained but Mapfre maintained their decision not to offer a refund. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs D complained to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started in October 2019 and the policy covered 
various risks during the time it was in force. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this complaint was he didnt agree it was fair 
and reasonable for Mapfre to refund Mr and Mrs D the premiums. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that 
they didnt want to cancel their holidays and they were all cancelled by the providers. And, 
they highlighted that there were exclusions in the policy which meant they couldnt claim and 
said the contract was frustrated. In summary, they say Mapfre werent carrying much risk so 
should refund some, if not all, of the premiums. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancelling this policy:
Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period or
where a change to your policy means we are unable to continue with your cover,
then the following terms apply:
Annual multi-trip policies  provided you had not made a claim (irrespective of
whether your claim was successful or not) on the policy and you confirm in writing
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all
the benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium
paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of 
cancellation
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. 
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that for refunds outside of the 
14-day cooling off period Mapfre will refund 5% of the total premium paid, for each 
full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation. So, under 
the terms and conditions of the policy Mr and Mrs D arent entitled to a refund either.
Mr and Mrs D say that the contract was frustrated. But I dont agree that Covid-19 
meant it was impossible for the contract between Mapfre and Mr and Mrs D to be 
performed. They were insured for the duration of the policy for an unlimited number 
of trips. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D were able to recover their losses from 
elsewhere but that doesnt mean that the policy was of no benefit to them. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments about the 
policy exclusions and the aspects of cover they didnt use. But I still dont think, on 
balance, that the policy offered them little benefit. For example, they were covered for 
cancellation for a number of reasons. Fortunately, Mr and Mrs D were able to recover 
their costs from their travel providers but Mapfre was still covering the risk of claims 
during the time the policy was in force. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I cant fairly asked Mapfre to step outside 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines or the policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman