DRN-4231419
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (hereafter referred to as AIL) 
declined her storm damage claim.
What happened
Ms R had a home insurance policy underwritten by AIL for her buildings and contents. In 
October 2022, she claimed under the policy for her boundary wall which she said partially 
collapsed during torrential rain.
AILs field surveyor attended and issued a report, including photos, concluding that the 
damage was due to wear and tear. AIL declined the claim under the policy exclusion for 
wear and tear and because the weather conditions on the day didnt meet the storm 
definition. 
Ms R didnt think the surveyor was qualified to determine the cause of damage. She 
provided AIL with a report from the dry-stone wall specialist who later repaired the damage. 
She said the report confirmed that the damage was due to torrential rain. Ms R also provided 
numerous screenshots of social media and news articles reporting flooding in the local area 
on the day her wall collapsed.
AIL instructed a structural specialist to assess the evidence, who agreed with the first 
surveyor that the wall collapse was due to gradually occurring causes (wear and tear). AIL 
sent its final response to Ms R, again declining the claim under the exclusions of wear and 
tear and the storm definition. So Ms R brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the evidence confirmed storm conditions on 
the day Ms R claimed for her wall. She also said the expert report Ms R provided supported 
her claim that the wall collapse was caused by the storm. Our investigator thought AIL 
should settle the claim, pay 8% interest and pay £100 compensation for the service 
shortfalls.
Ms R accepted, though she asked for more compensation when AIL didnt agree with the 
outcome.
AIL didnt agree thered been storm conditions that met the policy definition. It also said Ms 
Rs expert report confirmed that the damage was due mainly to subsidence.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 explaining that I was minded to not uphold Ms 
Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
AIL declined Ms Rs claim for the following reasons:
The weather conditions didnt represent a storm as defined by the policy.
The damage was mainly due to a gradually operating cause.
The damage was not consistent with an insured peril.
Storm
Ms R said the torrential rainfall caused the damage, but AIL said the rainfall on the day didnt 
meet its policy definition of a storm.
Ive considered the policy definition alongside confirmed weather data and the numerous 
pieces of evidence Ms R provided to show that there was localised flooding caused by heavy 
rainfall on the day of her claim. While the storm may not have met the policy definition, I 
think its fair to say the evidence shows the weather was consistent with that which a 
reasonable person would define as a storm.
Therefore, Ive accepted there was a storm on the day of Ms Rs claim.
I also accept that walls can become damaged during some storm conditions, so Ill move on 
to look at whether the evidence shows Ms Rs wall was damaged wholly or mainly by the 
storm. But, firstly, Ill comment on Ms Rs belief that AILs surveyors were not qualified to 
assess the cause of damage. 
AIL surveyors
Ms R gave a number of reasons for thinking AILs surveyors werent suitably qualified to 
assess her wall damage. These include the surveyor:
considering other causes, such as car impact damage, without there being any 
evidence;
guessing at causes;
stating that they couldnt determine the cause, and
making an assessment based on photos alone.
While Id expect the surveyors to consider other causes as part of the overall assessment, I 
have no reason to doubt Ms Rs description of her experience and that she didnt feel 
convinced regarding the level of skill. 
To be clear, I am not concluding that the surveyors werent suitably qualified and Im not 
disregarding their conclusions. But, to provide Ms R with some additional reassurance, Ill 
explain why her evidence alone persuades me that AIL didnt treat her unfairly.
Cause of damage
Ms R kindly supplied photos of her home before the wall was built, the wall before it was 
damaged, and up to date photos since the repair. I accept the wall wasnt even built at the 
same time as the house, so Ive disregarded any reference to the wall being older than 20 
years.
AILs in-house assessor reported that the wall was already showing signs of wear and tear 
before the damage. The conclusion was drawn from photos. Ive looked at the photos and I 
can see why AIL thought the wall was suffering from wear and tear. The photo suggests a 
lean to the outside of the garden, then twists slightly and leans toward the garden. With that 
said, I think its difficult to get the full perspective from a photo so, for the purpose of this 
decision, Ive disregarded any claim of it leaning.Ive looked at Ms Rs dry-wall specialists report. It says:
After assessing the structure, it is the opinion of [the walling specialist] that the wall 
has collapsed as a result of storm damage. During recent bouts of heavy rain, it is 
evident that the foundations of the wall has (sic) been compromised by subsidence of 
the ground. This has led to the base of the wall splaying outwards, putting additional 
pressure on the internal skin, thus resulting in a collapse.
Ms R says this report confirms that the storm caused the damage. I dont agree. The report 
provides two reasons for the wall collapse  heavy rain/storm and compromised 
foundations/subsidence. Having carefully considered the report, I think the conclusion is that 
rain over a period of time has contributed to the foundations being compromised, resulting in 
a weakened wall. For her policy to provide cover, Ms R would need to show that the wall 
damage was caused by a single storm event. But the specialist hasnt said that the damage 
was due to a single event. Rather, he concluded that the damage resulted from bouts of 
heavy rain - multiple events. This supports AILs position that Ms Rs wall collapsed due to 
gradually operating causes.
For this reason, I think AIL fairly declined Ms Rs claim under the policy exclusion of 
gradually operating cause, so I dont plan to ask AIL to pay Ms Rs claim.
Compensation
Id need to see evidence that AIL failed to handle Ms Rs claim fairly in order to consider 
compensation. Ive thought about her complaint that AILs surveyor was rude to her over the 
phone, and Ive already commented on her belief that the surveyors werent suitably 
qualified. However, I havent seen any evidence which persuades me that AIL did or didnt 
do something to cause Ms R any significant material loss or inconvenience for which it 
needs to apologise. It declined the claim because it didnt agree a storm was the main cause 
of damage, and I think the evidence supports this.
Overall, I havent identified anything to suggest AIL treated Ms R unfairly, so I dont plan to 
ask AIL to pay any compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AIL didnt provide anything further.
Ms R didnt agree with my provisional decision. She provided further comment from her dry-
stone wall specialist and evidence that the rainfall on the day her wall collapsed was the first 
in some time. Therefore, she didnt think the damage could be attributed to several bouts of 
rainfall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I realise this is not the 
outcome she was hoping for, but the evidence hasnt persuaded me that a storm peril was 
the main cause of the wall collapse.
I remain of the view that the conditions reported in the area were consistent with a storm. 
Since issuing my provisional decision, Ms R provided further clarification from her dry-stone wall specialist. He said the recent bouts of rain referred to in his report meant bouts of rain 
on that single day. Ms R provided evidence that prior to this there had been a long period of 
dry weather, such that there was a hosepipe ban in place. I accept that the report, then, 
didnt mean recent bouts of rainfall over several days or weeks.
So, Ive considered again whether the rainfall on the day the wall collapsed was the most 
probable cause.
Looking back at AILs report, I note the following:
[Photo] appears to show the wall leaning inwards toward the insured property and also in 
the line of collapse. This lean in appears to be emphasised more on [photo] and I note the 
exposed inner leaf part seems lower than outer as would be expected by the rotating 
action of the fall. The weather at the time of incident was recorded as well below any 
storm rating and there appears to be no evidence of washout. In any event.. I would have 
expected the wall to fall the other way, which it did not. 
For context, the dry-stone wall was a partially retaining boundary wall on one side of Ms Rs 
garden. On the inner side of the wall, Ms Rs retained garden had plants and tress/large 
shrubs planted up to the wall edge. On the outer side, the wall joined the public footpath. 
The upper part of the wall collapsed inwards from roughly halfway up, level with the top of 
the soil on the inner side.
Ms Rs specialist said:
This collapse was not caused by weathering, or long-term erosion of the footings, it was a 
single event that breached the absorption capacity of the subsoil (and surrounding area), 
reducing the load-bearing capability of the footing, resulting in the wall splaying and 
collapsing internally.
I must rely on the expert evidence available to reach my decision, but here there are 
conflicting views of the cause of damage. So, Ive thought carefully about the reports, and 
Im persuaded by AILs surveyors comment that there was no evidence of washout. That is, 
if the soil was saturated to such an extent that it caused the wall footings to splay, as 
indicated by Ms Rs specialist, like AILs surveyor Id expect to see more overall damage to 
the wall and the garden it retained than the upper half of just part of the wall falling inwards.
In my provisional decision, I relied on Ms Rs specialist to explain why I didnt think a single 
event caused the damage. Because of that I didnt address her concerns about the skill of 
AILs surveyor. Ive looked at the surveyors qualifications, and I dont share Ms Rs 
concerns. Im satisfied AIL appointed suitably qualified surveyors to assess the wall damage.
Overall, the evidence presented doesnt show that Ms R has demonstrated she has a valid 
claim under the under the policy storm peril. Therefore, unless she can provide evidence to 
AIL that her wall is covered under another insured peril, I see no reason to ask it to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Rs 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman