DRN-4262451
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired under a hire agreement with Arval UK Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality because the USB connection became detached.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr H was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a hire 
agreement with Arval. The agreement was for an initial rental of £389.87 followed by 35 
monthly payments of £389.87 which include a monthly maintenance charge.
In December 2022 Mr H tried to charge his phone in the USB charging port under the central 
arm rest. At the end of his journey, he noticed that his phone hadnt charged. When he went 
to remove the charging lead from the USB port, the port dropped out. 
Mr H reported the issue to Arval, who told him to book the car in with his local main dealer to 
have the USB port repaired.
Mr H took the car to his local main dealer. The dealer said the repair wasnt covered under 
the warranty and that it would cost £380.
Mr H complained to Arval. He said he hadnt damaged the USB port and that it mustve been 
faulty. He said the other USB port in the car wasnt working either.
Arval didnt uphold the complaint. it said it had spoken to the dealership who had confirmed 
that the USB mounting had been pushed in, which was indicative of damage. Arval said it 
wouldnt pay for repairs caused by damage.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he wasnt persuaded that the USB had been 
damaged through misuse. He said the USB had failed prematurely and that it wasnt 
durable. The investigator said that Arval should cover the cost of repairs.
Arval didnt agree. It said the dealership had confirmed that the USB had been damaged as 
opposed to having failed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr H was brand new. So Id expect it to be of a very high standard and 
to remain fault free for a reasonable period of time.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mr H experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault. I say this because the photos 
show that the USB port has fallen out. Theres also correspondence from the dealership 
confirming the same.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Arvals position is that Mr H caused damage to the USB port. It says that the dealership has 
confirmed that the USB mounting was found to be pushed in, which indicated damage, and 
that the costs of repair arent covered under the maintenance contract.
Mr H denies damaging the USB port. He says hes only used it two or three times since 
getting the car.
The issue with the USB port occurred around a year and a half after inception of the 
agreement. During this time the car travelled round 5,600 miles.
Ive already referenced the factors to consider under the relevant legislation. In this case, 
durability is one of the things Ive considered, because if the USB port failed sooner than can 
reasonably be expected, this might indicate that it wasnt sufficiently durable and therefore 
not of satisfactory quality. If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality for reasons of durability, the 
business is responsible for repairs. This is irrespective of whether Mr Hs maintenance 
contract covers the damage, because the liability stems from the legislation itself.
Ive reviewed all of the available information about the USB port. Ive also looked at the 
photos. I can see that the USB mounting has been pushed into the recess. But I cant be 
certain of how this happened. I dont think its likely that Mr Hs charging cable caused the 
issue because a charging cable cant be inserted in the recess beyond a certain point due to 
its design. Even if the charging cable did cause the USB port to be pushed in, I think its 
likely that the USB port was already loose or not fixed properly into the recess.
Ive taken into account the length of time Mr H has had the car. I think this is relevant 
because a USB port (according to information widely available on the internet) should last for 
around 10,000 uses. In other words, if you used the USB port three times a day, it should 
last for 9 years.
Taking everything into account, and in the absence of any persuasive evidence to show that 
Mr H caused the damage himself, I think its more likely that the USB port wasnt sufficiently 
durable. This means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and Arval need to take steps to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Taking the relevant legislation into account, Im of the view that Arval should arrange for the 
USB port to be repaired at no cost to Mr H. When the repairs are caried out, Arval must 
ensure that all USB ports in the car are tested because Mr H has reported that the other 
ports arent working as they should.
Its clear that Mr H has been caused some distress and inconvenient as a result of being 
supplied with a cbar which wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think it fair to ask Arval to pay 
compensation for this.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Arval UK Limited must:
Arrange for the USB port to be repaired at no cost to Mr H (to include testing all USB ports in 
the car to make sure they are functioning correctly)
Pay the further sum of £50 as compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman