DRN-3316957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the service that theyve received from Nationwide Building
Society surrounding their request to open a new account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had a Nationwide savings account whilst they lived overseas. On returning to
live in the UK, they wanted to convert their Nationwide savings account into a current
account and attended a Nationwide branch to do this. Mr and Mrs E also updated their
address with Nationwide to their UK address at that time. However, Mr and Mrs E were told
by Nationwide that they couldnt convert their savings account to a current account, and that
they would have to apply for a new current account if they wished to open one.
Mr and Mrs E applied for a new Nationwide current account online but had concerns about
whether the online application process had been completed successfully, and so visited a
Nationwide branch once again. At the time, Mr and Mrs E were informed by branch staff that
they would have to apply for a Nationwide basic bank account first before they could open
the type of current account that they wanted, and that it wasnt possible to apply for this
account in branch but had to be applied for online.
Mr and Mrs E then received a message from Nationwide advising that an application form
had been sent out to them in the post. Mr and Mrs E contacted Nationwide about this
because they hadnt requested these forms and were told that they had been sent to their
UK address.
A few days later, Mr and Mrs E attempted to apply for the new account online, but again
wasnt sure that the online application process had been followed correctly. However, a few
days afterwards, Mr and Mrs E received a request from Nationwide to provide copies of their
personal identification documents.
At this point, Mr and Mrs E discovered that their Nationwide basic account was open and
that they could log into it. They then received a message from Nationwide which advised that
documents had been sent to their address for them to sign and return, but these documents
also never arrived.
Mr and Mrs E then received the bank card and PIN for the basic account. However,
confusingly, they also received a message from Nationwide saying that their identification
documents had been received  even though Mr and Mrs E hadnt sent these documents to
Nationwide. Mr and Mrs E also received confirmation that a Nationwide current account was
in the process of being opened in both of their names.
Mr and Mrs E raised a complaint with Nationwide about the confusing information that theyd
received and explained that they had concerns about the security of their accounts and of
the personal information that theyd given to Nationwide because of what had happened.
Mr and Mrs E also referred their complaint to this service, at which time we contacted
Nationwide and asked them to look into Mr and Mrs Es complaint and issue a final
response.
Nationwide looked at Mr and Mrs Es complaint and acknowledged that Mr and Mrs E had
been sent confusing information about their accounts. Further correspondence between
Nationwide determined that Mr and Mrs Es account applications had been e-contracted,
meaning that the terms and conditions of the accounts had been accepted by Mr and Mrs E
online during the account application process.
It was also confirmed that Mr and Mrs Es identity documents had been provided by Mr and
Mrs E to Nationwide previously, which had allowed the account applications to be successful
 albeit while automated requests for these documents to be provided were sent to Mr and
Mrs E erroneously.
Because of the confusing information that had been sent to Mr and Mrs E, Nationwide
apologised and made a payment of £50 to them by way of compensation. Nationwide later
paid a further £30 to Mr and Mrs E for not responding to a Data Subject Access Request
(DSAR) that they had made to Nationwide in a timely manner.
Mr and Mrs E confirmed to this service that they remained dissatisfied with Nationwides
response and that they wanted this service to continue to consider their complaint. One of
our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response that Nationwide had
already issued to Mr and Mrs Es, including the payment of compensation, already
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr and Mrs E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 January 2022 as follows:
Its important to confirm the remit of this service, including that were not (and dont 
act in the manner of) a regulatory body or a court or law. The remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is to make an assessment, based on the information presented 
to us, of whether its felt that an unfair outcome has occurred  and if so, to issue 
correction instructions to a business accordingly.
This has several consequences. For instance, Mr and Mrs E have stated that they 
are concerned that there has been a breach of data protection regulations by 
Nationwide. But it isnt within the remit of this service to declare whether such a 
breach has occurred. That would be for the relevant regulatory body to decide, which 
in the case of potential breaches of data protection would be the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). As such, I can only refer Mr and Mrs E to the ICO if 
they wish to pursue this aspect of their complaint.
It's clear that the manner in which Nationwide have corresponded with Mr and Mrs E 
has caused considerable confusion, and I do feel that Mr and Mrs E have incurred an
unnecessary degree of upset and inconvenience as a result of this confusion. 
However, it appears that Mr and Mrs Es desired outcome here  the opening of a 
Nationwide current account following their return to the UK  has been achieved.
Nationwide dont dispute that the nature of their correspondence with Mr and Mrs Esurrounding the opening of this account was confusing, and theyve apologised to Mr 
and Mrs E and made a payment of £50 compensation to them because of this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair 
and reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. 
But while I recognise that Mr and Mrs E may disagree, the £50 compensation that 
they have already received from Nationwide does feel fair to me here, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances.
One reason I say this is because it seems evident that Nationwide were trying to help 
Mr and Mrs E negotiate the steps required to open the current account they wanted, 
and that the confusion that arose was largely because of how this process was 
communicated to Mr and Mrs E.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs E have concerns about whether Nationwide sent 
correspondence to an incorrect address and note that Mrs Es address with 
Nationwide hadnt been updated by Nationwide at the time of the account application.
As explained previously, Im unable to comment on whether a breach of data has or 
has not occurred here, but Nationwide have confirmed that account correspondence 
is sent to the address of the first registered account holder, which in this case was Mr 
E, whose address with Nationwide was correct. Nationwide have also confirmed that 
there were instances where Mr and Mrs E were incorrectly informed that 
correspondence would be sent to them, when in fact that wasnt the case.
Mr and Mrs E have expressed their dissatisfaction that Nationwide didnt update Mrs 
Es address on their systems at the time that Mr Es address was updated, and that 
Nationwide have asked Mrs E to contact them directly to update her address. 
Nationwide have confirmed that the reason for this is because joint account holders 
cant update the other account holders address  they can only update their own 
address  meaning that in this instance Mr and Mrs E would need to separately 
instruct Nationwide to update their respective addresses. This seems reasonable to 
me, especially when its considered that there is no requirement for joint account 
holders to live at the same address.
All of which means that, while I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs E did receive confusing
correspondence from Nationwide, Im satisfied that the desired outcome  the 
opening of the joint current account for Mr and Mrs E  was achieved, and I feel that 
the response that Nationwide have already issued to Mr and Mrs E about their 
complaint, including the payment of £50 compensation, already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what has taken place.
It follows from this that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I 
realise that this wont be the response to their complaint that Mr and Mrs E were 
wanting, but I hope that theyll understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the provisional decision that I have.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs E have submitted a DSAR to this service which at the 
time of my assessment has yet to be completed. However, I note that our investigator 
has informally sent Mr and Mrs E a considerable amount of information held by this 
service relating to this complaint and I see no reason not to issue my provisional 
decision at this time.In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr and Mrs E and Nationwide the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they wished me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision.
Mr and Mrs E responded and said that they felt that I had missed the point of their complaint, 
which was about how Nationwide had advised them that a new account had been opened 
when they had been unable to complete the account application process because they didnt 
at that time have a UK address.
However, I would refer Mr and Mrs E to the complaint form that submitted to this service, 
which states that their complaint is that that have been trying to open an account and 
believe the Nationwide have supplied [their] information to a third party. 
Additionally, I would also refer Mr and Mrs E to the document that they supplied to this 
service along with their complaint form, which was entitled Synopsis of complaint lodged 
with the Nationwide and which details the sequence of events as laid out in the What 
Happened section of this letter above.
As such, Im satisfied that my provisional decision did address the complaint raised by Mr 
and Mrs E to this service. 
It also appears that Mr and Mrs Es stated complaint point above has been addressed 
previously by this service, and I refer Mr and Mrs E to the view put forwards by our 
investigator, which explained that Nationwide had confirmed that Mr and Mrs Es 
applications for their FlexBasic and FlexAccounts had been e-contracted, which means that 
the terms and conditions of the account had been accepted by Mr and Mrs online during the 
application process. 
Our investigators view also stated that as the applications were made online no 
documentation was posted out and confirmed that Mr and Mrs Es identity documents had 
already been provided at a prior time by Mr and Mrs E to Nationwide which had allowed the 
applied for accounts to be opened.
Furthermore, our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs E began the account application 
process but were unable to complete it, as Mr and Mrs E confirm, meaning that Mr and Mrs 
E then went back to the application process at a later date. Our investigator then provided 
the following summary:
I think this is where much of the confusion from both sides has started. It would 
appear Mr E is correct in that he started the application and went back to it at a later 
date. But, in starting the application this prompted the account opening process, 
which in turn started the process of Nationwide sending misleading SMS messages 
about things that were going to be sent in the post, when in fact they werent because 
the application was carried out online.
And these points are referenced briefly in my provisional decision letter, where I state:
 it seems evident that Nationwide were trying to help Mr and Mrs E negotiate the 
steps required to open the current account they wanted, and that the confusion that 
arose was largely because of how this process was communicated to Mr and Mrs E.
Additionally, in relation to this point, I must note that I havent seen any direct evidence to 
suggest or confirm that information was sent out by Nationwide incorrectly to a third party as 
Mr and Mrs E are concerned may have been the case.Finally, Im aware that Mr and Mrs E wish for this complaint to remain open until a data 
subject access request that they have made to this service is completed. However, its 
notable that a large amount of information has already been provided informally to Mr and 
Mrs E by our investigator and Im not convinced that any further information, above and 
beyond that which Mr and Mrs E have already received, could reasonably influence a 
tangible change in the outcome of this complaint, which as alluded to above, Im satisfied 
has been conducted thoroughly and in line with Mr and Mrs Es stated complaint points.
All of which means that I see no reason not to issue a final decision here in line with that as 
outlined in my provisional decision, and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I 
will not be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman