DRN-4080594
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC, blocked its account in error.
What happened
N says that it was contacted by Metro Bank after one of its directors had resigned. And that 
the remaining director went to a branch to change the mandate. N found out that this hadnt 
been done and the account had been blocked.
Metro Bank said it accepted it had made a mistake. The director visited a branch on 25 April 
2022. And the change wasnt made. It originally believed that the form had been archived 
without being actioned. But after referral to this service explained that it had been destroyed 
in its confidential waste. It apologised to N for the impact of what happened and had offered 
it £75 but increased this to £150 after referral.
Our investigator asked Metro Bank to consider increasing its offer in light of Ns comments 
and that the account had been blocked for 12 days. And it offered to increase the 
compensation to £200, which whilst below the £400 that N wanted he thought was fair. He 
noted that Metro Bank had said it would consider any direct loss, but that N hadnt provided 
it with evidence of that.
N didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that Metro Bank 
hadnt been honest in its final response when it said that the document had been archived. 
Only the director could assess the impact of what happened and that she had been 
financially stranded and had to call and visit the branch on two occasions before this was 
resolved and money could be withdrawn.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the other director resigned in the middle of March 2022 and Metro Bank 
discovered this from public records. It needed N to confirm the mandate on the account as it 
still had the other director on that. N responded to contact from Metro Bank and completed a 
form. The main issue is that this form wasnt actioned in a branch. It seems it ought to have 
been archived as an earlier one had. But as this was found not to be in the branch filing for 
archive Metro Bank later said that it had been destroyed in confidential waste. I appreciate 
that the director is aggrieved by what she sees as an attempt to cover things up. 
This is a complaint from N, a separate legal entity that cant suffer distress. And I need to 
consider the impact on N including any financial loss. Ive not seen clear information to show 
that there was a resultant trading loss for N. I appreciate that the director couldnt purchase 
goods for Ns business on 27 May 2022 and that N couldnt make a payment to the former 
director. The director had to follow this up for N and visit a branch. Shes referred to N being 
charged an account fee when it couldnt use the service.
Ive taken all this into account and our published guidelines about compensation. We dont 
make punitive awards and Im thinking about the overall inconvenience and impact to N. 
Having done so I conclude that the now increased offer from Metro Bank is a fair one. I can 
appreciate that the director of N will be disappointed. If N doesnt accept my offer and wants 
to pursue this in court, as its indicated it might, then it can do so subject to any relevant time 
limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Metro Bank PLC to pay N total 
compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman