DRN-2837652
The complaint
 Mr F, who is represented by his mother Miss W complains that TTR PT Limited refused to 
let him withdraw from a finance agreement to fund an online training course. The complaint 
is in joint names as Mr F senior was a co-signatory.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I have noted the views of both TTR PT and our investigator regarding the legal position, but I 
am aware my role is to decide on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
taking due regard of the law. In this case I believe it is both fair and reasonable for Mr F to 
allowed to terminate the contract with nothing to pay. I will explain why.
The business acknowledges that Mr F suffers from mental health issues, which he has 
evidenced to this service with a medical note, and says it is able to accommodate him by 
providing support, allowing extra time etc. I am sure these may prove helpful to many 
people, but I am not persuaded they are sufficient in Mr Fs case. I would add that I do not 
doubt the sincerity of TTR PT and its staff.
I can appreciate TTR PTs position in that it sees Mr F as someone who was suffering from 
buyers remorse and sought to get out of his contract. I am sure it encounters this in the 
course of its daily business, but I am persuaded this does not describe Mr Fs situation.
I am satisfied that he was overwhelmed with the requirements of the course once they 
became clear to him and he asked to be allowed to cancel some four weeks after signing up. 
I think it is relevant that he did so soon after he had received the material.
I have also listened to the call in which Mr F signed up and I note he said he had only 10 
minutes and the call handler said he could whiz through it. There was a follow up call the 
next day when Mr F registered and competed the finance application with a second call 
handler. The first one told him the monthly payments had been some £111 but had been 
reduced to £65.36 and the qualifications would lead to a job. When Mr F made a £25 
registration payment he was asked if he was excited. The whole call was very much a sales 
pitch.
He did tell the call handler about his mental health and he was told someone could call him 
to discuss what support could be offered. I dont if that happened, or, if it did when it 
happened, but it seems that Mr F had already signed up at that point. I also note that the call 
handler dealing with the finance application wasnt told of Mr Fs condition and as such this 
wasnt considered in the granting of the loan. So, while I would not wish to suggest that Mr F 
should have been denied a loan due to his health, I would have expected a little more time 
and care would have been taken by the business before he made the commitment.
I have also listened to the call where Mr F asked if he could cancel and I believe it is clear he 
is not ready to cope with the course. While the call handler is sensitive, he passes the matter 
off to customer services. 
I have also noted that Miss W offered to pay £150 to cover TTR PTs costs, but it felt that 
was not enough and suggested 50% of the total sum due including interest of a little over 
£1,000. That does not appear to be a fair offer in the circumstances and I would have 
thought the sum put forward by Miss W was pretty fair.
So, while I have some sympathy with the position taken by the business I believe it is fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
 Mr F should be allowed to cancel the contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct TTR PT Limited to:
Cancel the contract with nothing further to pay.
All monies paid should be returned with 8% simple annual interest added until the 
date of settlement.
Any negative information held on Mr Fs credit file should be removed.
Pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman