DRN-3786343
The complaint
Mr D complains that an agreement between himself and Volkswagen Financial Services 
Limited trading as Audi Finance (VWFS) which states it is a hire purchase agreement, is 
invalid or is not a hire purchase agreement, and this has caused him loss. He has also said 
that the agreement should not have automatically allowed VWFS to seek to collect the final 
balloon payment but that instead this should have been optional, or that separate 
authorisation should have been required from him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ds complaint on 30 September 2022. In this I 
described the background to the complaint as follows:
This complaint has its origins in the fact that VWFS registered a default against Mr D in 
August 2019 in respect of an agreement he entered into with it for the financing of a used car 
in January 2016. Mr D says this has ruined his credit rating.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has already considered, and made a determination on, a 
complaint from Mr D about the same agreement which is the subject of the present 
complaint. Broadly speaking, the previous determination covered alleged acts and omissions 
by VWFS in the lead-up to, and shortly after, the agreement was due to come to an end, and 
related to how VWFS exercised its rights under the agreement. Mr D didnt accept that 
determination and there was further correspondence between him and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service which led to his bringing the present complaint to VWFS.
Mr Ds present complaint focuses on an issue not previously considered by this service. Mr 
D complains about the way the agreement is written. He says the judge who made an order 
that he must return the car to VWFS had been critical of the agreement in comments made 
at the hearing. Mr D suggested the agreement was invalid or otherwise not in accordance 
with the relevant law and regulations as a result.
VWFS asked its solicitors to reply to the complaint. They said the hire purchase agreement 
met the definition set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and this had been lawfully 
terminated after Mr D had failed to make payments. They said VWFS had been entitled to go 
to court to compel him to return the vehicle and that the fact the judge had made an order 
that Mr D must return the vehicle meant he had been satisfied the agreement was 
enforceable and not invalid.
Mr D referred the matter to this service, adding that he was additionally seeking to complain 
about VWFS using their solicitors to respond to the complaint and failing to include certain 
wording prescribed by the FCA Handbook in the response.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. His conclusions could be summarised as 
follows:
He couldnt comment on anything which had previously been decided by this service.
The hire purchase agreement appeared to be valid and in line with the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
He couldnt see that there had been a detrimental impact on Mr D caused by any 
potential poor wording in the hire purchase agreement.
There wasnt anything wrong about VWFS appointing solicitors to respond to the 
complaint. And while certain wording should have been included in the response to 
the complaint, but wasnt, this hadnt put Mr D at a disadvantage.
Mr D didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt referred to the FCA Handbook, and the 
fact the judge had commented on the hire purchase agreement meant there were problems 
with it from a legal perspective.
I then went on to consider Mr Ds complaint and give the reasons for my provisional 
decision. I noted that it was unclear if he still wished to pursue his complaint about how 
VWFS had replied to his concerns, but that I was satisfied this was not something we could 
consider, due to this service not having the jurisdiction to consider a complaint about how a 
firm has handled complaints.
I then went on to consider the main part of Mr Ds complaint. I said the following:
although the FCA Handbook does include a definition of a hire purchase agreement, it 
draws this definition from the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO) and that definition itself mirrors the one found in the primary legislation 
which governs such agreements, which is the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). So if Mr D 
questions the validity of the agreement as a hire purchase agreement, the FCA Handbook is 
not the most appropriate source to define it. I dont think this matters however as, by the 
definitions in the FCA Handbook, RAO and CCA, Mr Ds agreement with VWFS is a hire 
purchase agreement, and there is no difference in substance between the three. Ive listed 
the three definitions below.
I went on to set out the definitions in the three different sources Id identified. The definition 
in the primary legislation was as follows:
an agreement, other than a conditional sale agreement, under which
(a) goods are bailed or (in Scotland) hired in return for periodical payments by the 
person to whom they are bailed or hired, and
(b) the property in the goods will pass to that person if the terms of the agreement are 
complied with and one or more of the following occurs
(i) the exercise of an option to purchase by that person,
(ii) the doing of any other specified act by any party to the agreement,
(iii) the happening of any other specified event;
With this in mind, I went on to make the following findings about Mr Ds agreement:
Under the agreement between Mr D and VWFS, VWFS bailed a car to Mr D in return for 
payments by Mr D which were to be made monthly.
The agreement provided for property in the car to pass to Mr D if the terms of the agreement had been complied with and he had exercised an option to purchase, which attracted a fee 
of £10. So the agreement certainly contained the necessary ingredients to have made it a 
hire purchase agreement.
Mr D suggests that the agreement cannot be a valid hire purchase agreement because he 
failed to comply with the terms but VWFS still attempted to collect the final payment. Having 
examined the agreement carefully, my interpretation of the final repayment is that it is one of 
the periodical payments which was required to be paid under the agreement, albeit it was 
much larger than the other expected payments. So I dont find Mr Ds point persuasive. And 
the nature of the agreement has to be determined by the terms themselves, rather than 
whether the parties complied with those terms after the agreement was made. So I agree 
with VWFS that it was a hire purchase agreement, and that whether or not Mr D missed any 
payments is not material.
I went on to consider Mr Ds comments about what the judge had said during the court 
hearing, but did not think this helped advance his case. I said:
I appreciate Mr D says the judge was critical of the agreement during the court hearing. But 
there appears to be no independent record of what was said at the hearing, and I dont know 
what the judge said or what the context was of any comments he made. I would observe 
however that the judge did see fit to grant the return of goods order, and the words of that 
order referred to the agreement as a hire purchase agreement which Mr D had failed to 
comply with the terms of. It seems unlikely to me that the judge would have enforced the 
agreement if he took the view that it was invalid or unenforceable, or that he would have 
referred to the agreement as a hire purchase agreement if he thought that it was not.
Ultimately, I dont think Mr Ds comments about what may have been said at the court 
hearing help to advance his case, and I dont think that it would be appropriate or necessary 
to get a transcript of the hearing in circumstances where the judge allowed VWFS to enforce 
its rights under the agreement.
Having concluded that the agreement complied with the relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements, I went on to consider whether the lack of separate authorisation for the 
balloon payment might have been unfair. I couldnt see anything in the CCA, RAO or FCA 
Handbook which said separate authorisation was a requirement.
I also considered the relevance of the unfair terms provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 to the agreement, finding as follows:
Ive also considered the law on unfair terms, to see whether a court might have a 
reasonable basis to conclude that  under the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 - 
the term providing that the balloon payment would be taken automatically might be unfair. 
But I dont think it would. The term that provides for the balloon payment is a core term 
because it relates to the price paid for the car and the terms on which payment is to be 
made. A court cant look at the fairness of a core term if it is prominent and transparent. 
Given that the term is clearly set out on the first page of the agreement, and isnt hidden 
away elsewhere, I think it is sufficiently prominent and transparent that a court wouldnt 
consider it.
And standing back, I think Mr D ought reasonably to have been aware of what he was 
agreeing to, especially given that he signed the agreement on the page where the term 
appears.
Even if I had any concerns about the term, I would have to consider whether the term itself 
caused unfairness to Mr D, for example because it put him at a substantial disadvantage in relation to VWFS. Im not satisfied that this is the case. As Ive said above, Mr D was aware 
of the term and agreed to be bound by it. And  reminding myself that I cant look at whether 
VWFS acted fairly in enforcing its rights under the agreement (because our service has 
already considered a complaint about this)  nothing at the point at which the agreement 
concluded provides evidence that Mr D was somehow confused about what the agreement 
meant. Rather, he asked for more time to complete the purchase. So I dont think the term 
disadvantaged him in a way that would mean I could reasonably uphold his complaint.
Finally, I concluded:
that the agreement Mr D entered with VWFS met the definition set out in the FCA 
Handbook, RAO and CCA, and that Mr Ds complaint about this is not justified. In addition, I 
cant see any other reasons to conclude that the term providing for the balloon payment or 
the overall agreement were unfair.
The responses to the provisional decision
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, evidence or arguments they wanted me 
to consider, by 28 October 2022. 
VWFS responded to say that it agreed with the provisional decision.
I could summarise Mr Ds comments as follows:
All the definitions of a hire purchase agreement referred to the exercise by the 
person to whom the goods had been bailed or hired, of an option to purchase.
In his agreement with VWFS, the option to purchase was accompanied by a fee of 
£10. VWFS had collected this £10, and this had determined the collection of the 
balloon payment (final payment).
He denied having exercised an option to purchase. He questioned whether VWFS 
had asked him if he wanted to exercise the option, or received any response from 
him in the affirmative. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 required him to expressly and explicitly agree to 
exercise the option to purchase. It wasnt something which could be assumed or 
taken for granted, especially as he had to pay a fee to exercise it. This is what Mr D 
said the judge had been critical of.
It was important that I confirm whether the option to purchase had in fact been 
exercised and, if so, to justify and prove this from a legal point of view.
The case has now been returned to me to review once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has focused his response to my provisional decision on whether or not he had 
exercised the option to purchase. This is not a line of argument he has pursued previously in 
this case but I do not think it assists him here. I will explain why.
Firstly, whether Mr D exercised the option to purchase or not, the agreement still met the definition of a hire purchase agreement for the same reasons, quoted above, which I gave in 
my provisional decision.
Secondly Mr D was, under the terms of the agreement, obliged to pay the balloon payment 
regardless of whether the option to purchase was exercised. As I said in the provisional 
decision, it was one of the periodic payments he was required to make under the 
agreement, and this was set out on the first page under the heading Payment. The 
obligation for Mr D to pay the balloon payment was not contingent on either the option to 
purchase being exercised or the fee being paid. 
In light of this, I dont see that its necessary to make a finding on whether Mr D could be 
said to have exercised the option to purchase or not. Or whether it was fair and reasonable 
for VWFS to assume that this is what he had wanted to do at the end of the agreement.
Mr D has not commented on the rest of my provisional findings. I see no reason to depart 
from these and so I adopt them as part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including the quoted extracts from my provisional decision, 
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman