DRN-2887378
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited failed to allocate his payments 
to an ISA. He would like Nutmeg to retrospectively apply his funds to an ISA for the 19/20 
tax year and make up for any financial losses. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr S opened a stocks and shares ISA with Nutmeg. He says he did so with 
the intention of making contributions to an ISA for the 19/20 tax year. His first payment to 
Nutmeg was for £2,500 on 8 April 2019.
Mr S received a message from Nutmeg in October 2020 regarding tax implications of the 
money held in his Nutmeg account. Mr S queried this as he believed his money was held 
within a tax-free wrapper. Nutmeg clarified that the money was actually held within a General 
Investment Account (GIA) and not an ISA. 
Mr S complained to Nutmeg as he felt it should retrospectively place the £20,000 hed 
deposited during the 19/20 tax year into an ISA for that year and the rest of the money into a 
new ISA for the 20/21 tax year. Nutmeg didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that Mr S 
had opened his ISA for the 18/19 tax year and not for the 19/20 tax year as hed intended. 
Nutmeg said that under HMRC guidelines, an ISA must lapse if no contribution is made to it 
within any given tax year. And since Mr S didnt contribute to his ISA during the 18/19 tax 
year  as his first payment on 8 April 2019 fell within the 19/20 tax year - his ISA lapsed. 
This meant that any contributions to his Nutmeg account made from the 19/20 tax year 
onwards were held in a GIA since no ISA wrapper was open to contribute his funds to. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said he didnt think Nutmeg had acted unfairly in allocating Mr S money to the 
GIA. He said Nutmeg had opened a GIA by default when Mr S had opened his 18/19 ISA, 
which was in-line with Nutmegs terms and conditions. As Mr S ISA for the 18/19 tax year 
had lapsed and he hadnt opened an ISA for the 19/20 tax year, our investigator felt Nutmeg 
had correctly allocated Mr S payments to the correct GIA account. He said that all of this 
was explained in Nutmegs terms and conditions as well as on its website. 
Whist our investigator acknowledged that Mr S had messaged Nutmeg when opening the 
account to ask that his payments be allocated to an ISA for the 19/20 tax year, he noted that 
Nutmeg had responded by explaining how Mr S could ensure he had an active ISA open for 
the 19/20 tax year. As Mr S failed to follow these instructions, our investigator didnt think 
Nutmeg were at fault. Our investigator also added that Nutmeg provided an execution only 
account, meaning it didnt have a responsibility to advise Mr S on which accounts to open 
and so it was up to Mr S to check where his payments were going. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
When he initially accessed his Nutmeg account in order to make his first deposit, he   
noticed that the account was headed, "ISA and General". As there was only one 
account available to deposit money into he had no reason to believe that he wasnt 
funding an ISA. Had it just been headed "General", he said he would have contacted 
Nutmeg straight away to resolve the issue.
He believed Nutmeg's account opening and operating procedures weren't clear as 
hed never experienced such difficulty with any of his other online ISA providers. 
He already had a stocks and shares ISA open for the 18/19 tax year which hed 
contributed to and so it shouldnt be his fault if Nutmeg illegally opened him another 
one for that tax year.
He added that he was surprised that there was no facility for taking advantage of 
previous years' ISA allowances retrospectively in cases such as his.
Our investigator considered Mr S further points but didnt think it changed his opinion. In 
summary he said:
Mr S wasnt prevented by HMRC from opening multiple ISA accounts in the same 
financial year, although he could only invest in one.
Whilst he understood Mr S had told Nutmeg that hed already used his ISA limit for 
the 18/19 tax year, Nutmeg had explained how to turn off the limit on the remainder 
of that years allowance on his Nutmeg ISA, and how to turn it back on and set a limit 
for the 19/20 tax year. 
He reiterated it was his responsibility to control the administration of the account and 
he added that the valuation reports provided to Mr S did separate the GIA and ISA 
accounts.  So he ought to have seen that no money had been deposited within his 
ISA.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and so the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Nutmegs website explains how its accounts work and includes information specific to 
opening up an ISA account. Its website says:
Under HRMC rules, if you do not contribute to your ISA within a tax year, your ISA 
will lapse. This means an ISA will not be automatically opened for you in the following 
tax year, even if you have your ISA settings configured to open one (Auto-renew). 
You will need to open a new ISA wrapper, which can be done from your dashboard 
or the mobile app.
Please bear in mind any contributions made to your pot before an ISA is open will go 
into a General Investment part of your account, which is subject to taxation. If a pot 
contains a mixture of ISA and GIA assets, there will be a breakdown of the ISA and 
GIA value on the 'Investments, fees & more' page.
When Mr S opened his account he messaged Nutmeg to explain that he wanted his 
payments to be allocated to an ISA for the 19/20 tax year. Nutmeg responded on 1 April 
2019, explaining he would need to take the following action:
One you have logged into your account you will find Your ISA settings on the left 
hand side, click Settings in blue writing and you can set your allowance for 
2018/2019 and 2019/2020. If you turn the 2018/19 full allowance to off, it will limit your ISA to £0, in effect. 
You can then log in from Saturday 6th April to turn the 2019/20 full allowance on, or 
put a value in the box to self-limit it if you have other ISA investments elsewhere.
Mr S failed to follow these instructions and so no ISA was open for the 19/20 tax year. This 
meant his payments were allocated to his GIA and Im satisfied that Nutmeg administered Mr 
S payments correctly and in line with how it explained the account worked on its website. 
Whilst I acknowledge that Nutmegs response could have made it clear that he would need 
to open a new ISA account if he didnt contribute to the ISA for the 18/19 tax year, Ive also 
considered that he could have avoided any issues had he followed the instructions provided.
I understand Mr S thinks Nutmegs ISA is operated in a confusing and unfair manner. Ive 
looked closely at the relevant processes and operation of the ISA as a whole. But having 
done so, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Nutmeg has done anything wrong. Mr S has 
said that he didnt know that Nutmegs ISA opening process involved the default setting up of 
a GIA to sit alongside the ISA. So, he didnt know there was an alternative destination for his 
payments if they didnt go into an ISA. But I think the information provided by Nutmeg makes 
reasonably clear that this is how its system operates and I dont think its unique in setting up 
a separate non-ISA account as a default process. 
Mr S was under the impression that his payment wouldve been applied to the ISA rather 
than the GIA, given that the account was headed ISA and General and that there wasnt 
anything in the process that overtly alerted him to the fact that the payment wasnt going into 
the ISA. But equally, there was nothing that confirmed that the payment had gone into an 
ISA. Nutmeg provided Mr S with quarterly valuation reports which would have shown him 
that he held no funds in an ISA and so he ought to have contacted Nutmeg sooner if he 
wanted to allocate funds to an ISA. 
I agree with our investigator that it was Mr S responsibility to ensure that his payments had 
indeed been allocated to an ISA, if that was his intention. Im satisfied he was provided with 
enough information to understand how the account worked and how he could ensure he 
contributed to an ISA with Nutmeg, as well as having quarterly reports available to him to 
check this. 
I note Mr S says he had ISA with other providers which didnt operate in this way.  However,  
Nutmeg is entitled to operate its system in a different way to other providers, as long as it 
makes clear how its system operates. And while I accept Mr S feels that Nutmeg doesnt do 
this, I dont agree. I think Nutmegs system is reasonable, explained sufficiently clearly and 
not unduly out of line with general industry standards. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman