DRN-4055619
The complaint
Mr E complains Compliance Trak Limited dealt with his motor warranty claims unfairly. 
What happened
Mr Es unhappy with how Compliance Trak handled two warranty claims. He feels the policy 
was mis-sold, so would like a full refund of the premium.  
Our investigator said a mis-sale complaint would need to be against the broker who 
arranged the policy, not its provider - Compliance Trak. He felt an offer, by the insurer, to 
reimburse £384, in return for cancellation of the cover, was fair. He added, in the event Mr E 
didnt take up that offer, it should reimburse him £36 plus VAT. That was to make up for the 
shortfall in the amount it paid out for a part in one of the claims. The investigator also said it 
was reasonable of the insurer to have declined the second claim. The insurer accepted the 
outcome. Mr E didnt so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Compliance Trak declined a claim for replacement of the vehicles EGR. It said the repairer 
had declared soot or carbon build up to be the cause. Ive heard the repairer explain that in a 
call recording. The policy terms do exclude damage caused by excess carbon build up. I 
havent seen anything from Mr E to persuade me that wasnt the cause. Overall I cant say 
Compliance Traks decision to decline that claim was unfair or unreasonable
Mr Es unhappy with the settlement paid for the other claim. It settled the claim based on a 
labour rate of £50 per hour. The policy terms do limit the hourly labour rate paid to that 
amount. They also state repair time paid will be assessed using repair time data. 
Compliance Traks shown it used that information to calculate the hours payable. Overall I 
cant say it acted unfairly or unreasonably for these aspects. 
Compliance Traks already agreed to cover the £36 plus VAT (plus simple interest at 8%) 
shortfall for the part. So Im not going to consider that any further. 
Mr Es unhappy about Compliance Traks restrictions on methods of communication 
available to him. Having considered its reasons, including Mr Es communications with it, I 
cant say it acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr Es explained complained Compliance Trak incorrectly told him he couldnt use this 
service. He feels it stopped him from having his complaint considered by an independent 
body. Its unfortunate if he was given misleading information. However, this service has 
made an independent and impartial assessment of his complaint. So I cant say he lost out 
as a result. 
Compliance Traks offered to pay Mr E, for the cancellation of the policy, more than he would 
likely receive for a pro-rata refund. If he feels the policy was mis-sold, and he wants a larger 
refund, he can consider complaining to the firm that sold him the cover. Mr E says he doesnt 
want to cancel the policy, so I havent included Compliance Traks offer in my final decision. 
But if does change his mind he should contact the insurer.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Compliance Trak Limited need to reimburse Mr E £36.20 plus 
VAT. It will need to add simple interest at 8% from the date Mr E paid the invoice to the date 
of settlement*.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
*If Compliance Trak considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he  can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman