DRN-4349095
The complaint
Ms H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt repaired her car 
following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants her car repaired, 
reimbursement of her alternative travel costs, and compensation for her trouble and upset.
What happened
Ms H complained to us four weeks after her car was damaged. She said RSA hadnt yet 
repaired it or provided her with an alternative. She explained that this was having an impact 
on her work, and this was causing her stress. She had some taxis paid for, but this wasnt 
reliable. She was unhappy with the lack of information from RSA and its agents. And she 
was unhappy that RSA hadnt made reasonable adjustments to provide accessible 
communications to accommodate her disability. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt consider 
Ms Hs concerns about a loss of use payment, or the hire car provided. He thought RSA 
should have contacted Ms H by email only. He thought RSA should have repaired the car or 
provided Ms H with an alternative whist awaiting repairs. And he thought RSA should have 
done more to keep Ms H updated. So he thought it should pay her £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
RSA agreed to do this. But Ms H thought the extra running costs she incurred for the hire car 
should be considered and the compensation payment was too low for the trouble and upset 
caused over six weeks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H made a claim on her policy after she damaged the passenger-side wheels of her car. 
She said she was concerned that the car wasnt safe to drive and so she hadnt used it 
again. Ms H contacted us recently to say that her car still hadnt been taken for repairs, over 
five months after it was damaged. She has raised a new complaint about this with RSA. I 
can understand that this must be frustrating and stressful for her. 
As our Investigator has already explained, I can only consider here those concerns Ms H 
has already raised with RSA and so given it a chance to respond. So I can consider here the 
lack of contact from RSA and its agents, the lack of reasonable adjustments to 
communications, and the lack of a courtesy car during the first four weeks of her claim.
RSA has a duty to deal with claims promptly. I can see that RSA referred the claim to its 
repairer after it was received, but this wasnt acted on due to lack of availability. RSA said 
this was due to the global and national situation. But this left Ms H without transport. Page 
27 of RSAs agents policy booklet states:
Replacement car
While repairs are being carried out, we will do our best to keep you mobile with a temporary 
replacement vehicle or another suitable option.
So Ms H wouldnt usually be provided with a replacement car until her car was taken for 
repairs. But I dont think its reasonable for RSA to expect Ms H to wait indefinitely for her car 
to be taken for repairs. And I think it should reasonably have looked at other options such as 
a courtesy car, an alternative repairer or cash instead of repairs so that Ms H could have her 
own garage fix her car. But it didnt. And so Ms H was kept waiting without transport until 
taxis were provided for some of her journeys. 
RSA did eventually provide Ms H with a courtesy car so that she remained mobile. Ms H 
said this car was costing her more to run than her own car. But RSA said this wasnt covered 
by her policys terms and conditions as there was no like for like provision and no cover for 
additional running costs. So I cant reasonably ask RSA to pay these costs. 
The repairer tried to contact Ms H by phone after Ms H had made it clear to RSA that she 
required email contacts. I can see that RSA raised this with the repairer when Ms H 
complained and so it corrected this promptly. But Ms H said she had to press RSA and the 
repairer to make reasonable adjustments for her communication needs. And I think she 
shouldnt have needed to do this. 
During the early part of her claim, Ms H didnt receive the expected contacts from the 
repairer. And RSA didnt follow up the claim with her or try and keep her mobile. I think this 
was poor service. I think this, the lack of accessible communications and the lack of 
information about what she could expect caused Ms H stress and frustration that could have 
been avoided. 
Our Investigator recommended that RSA should pay Ms H £200 compensation for this 
trouble and upset. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance for the impact these errors had. 
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms H £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman