DRN-2824739
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled a payment 
he made, and its response to the dispute he raised. 
A complaint Mr L made about the bank that received the payment is being considered 
separately. In this decision I am only looking at Mr Ls complaint about NatWest.
What happened
Mr L needed repair work carried out on his home. He found what looked to be a suitable 
business through a recommendation website. The business he chose is highly rated on the 
site and has had good reviews.
Mr L contacted the business using the details on the recommendation website. The business 
visited his house and Mr L negotiated the work to be carried out and the price. The price was 
broadly in line with quotes Mr L had obtained elsewhere.
Mr L was happy to proceed and paid £350 by bank transfer from his NatWest account. 
Some of the agreed work was carried out, but Mr L says not all of it was. Furthermore, he 
was unhappy with the quality of work and he believes damage was caused. Hes now paid 
different contractors to carry out remediation work.
He tried to contact the workman and the business again but was not successful. Mr L raised 
the matter through the recommendation websites dispute resolution process, but he says 
this was not helpful.
Mr L contacted Citizens Advice who forwarded his concerns to Trading Standards. Neither 
avenue yielded results however, and in essence it was suggested Mr L would likely need a 
contact address for the business hed been dealing with in order to pursue the matter further.
Mr L was able to locate details for a limited company sharing the company name shown on 
the business card hed been given by the workman. However, when he contacted this limited 
company, he was told the workman and business he had been dealing with had no 
connection to it.
Unable to contact the business or obtain redress, Mr L raised the matter with NatWest, his 
bank. Mr L complained that NatWest ought to have checked the payee name hed used 
against the name on the receiving account. Hed used the full payee name including the 
suffix Ltd - so if this didnt fully match the receiving account then the payment shouldnt 
have been processed by NatWest. 
Furthermore, he thought in the event it did match this could be a sign that hed been 
defrauded - given that the business hed been paying did not appear to be connected to the 
limited company and so had no entitlement to hold an account with that designation. Mr L 
asked NatWest to either refund him in full or provide him with the name and address of the 
recipient account holder in order to assist him in pursuing a civil dispute.
NatWest has explained that it didnt carry out a check on the payee name and says it wasnt 
required to at the time Mr L made his payment. It didnt agree it was at fault here. It had 
reported the allegation to the receiving bank, which didnt think this was an APP scam and 
believed the matter should be treated as a civil dispute. NatWest said it wasnt permitted to 
disclose personal information about another party in the way Mr L was asking it to and didnt 
think it was liable to reimburse Mr L for any other reason.
Mr L was unhappy with this outcome. Hed paid for work to be carried out in good faith and 
despite his best efforts was left seemingly without any recourse. Hes had to pay out more to 
put matters right and hed like to pursue a civil dispute against the business for the cost of 
rectifying the work, but he simply cannot without knowing the contact address. He thinks his 
bank needs to do more to help him.
Our investigator sympathised with the position Mr L found himself in. She considered 
whether NatWest should reimburse Mr L. But she said based on the information shed been 
provided it didnt appear this was a scam and didnt think NatWest was otherwise at fault. 
She didnt think NatWest needed to do more or was liable to reimburse Mr L.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary he said that:
the name given by the trader wasnt legitimate, and this was why hed claimed 
against his bank; 
he didnt consider NatWest had followed his payment instruction, given it hadnt 
taken the step of verifying the receiving account name; 
on the alternative, if the name on the receiving account had matched this would 
indicate the business he dealt with was trading fraudulently because it had no 
connection to the true limited company of that name; and,
he thought NatWest should have been aware of the risk of allowing such a 
payment, and that the subsequent introduction of the Confirmation of Payee 
system demonstrated this.
Ultimately, Mr L questioned how he could pursue a civil dispute against the business without 
being provided the businesss name and address.
So Mr Ls complaint about NatWest has been referred to me to reach a final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I am very sorry to hear about the problem Mr L now faces. He paid money in good faith to a 
business based on recommendations, and the standard of work fell short of what he 
reasonably expected. The difficulties hes faced in retrospectively obtaining valid contact 
details for the firm he paid are hardly suggestive of good business practice on its part.Hes tried several routes to obtain redress, none of which have proved successful and so 
hes been left bearing the cost of putting matters right. 
This is an unjust and highly frustrating situation and I can appreciate why Mr L feels so 
strongly about it.
Nonetheless, in deciding this case I am considering NatWests role in the matter, not the role 
of the recommendation website or recommended business. This consideration primarily 
hinges on whether NatWest has acted in line with its obligations to Mr L, or whether it needs 
to do more.
Did NatWest fulfil its obligations when processing the payment instruction?
Firstly, it is not a matter of dispute that Mr L initiated the payment instruction. Mr L however, 
disputes that NatWest carried it out correctly  specifically through failing to verify the payee 
name he used against the recipient account name.
NatWest on its part accepts that it did not check the account name. But it says it was under 
no requirement to do so at the time. On this point, it is correct. While a payee name 
verification system was stipulated later in 2020, at the time Mr L made this payment it was 
not.
At the time Mr L made his payment, the regulatory requirement was to execute payment 
instructions based on the beneficiary accounts unique identifiers. In a payment such as 
this, those unique identifiers were the sort-code and account number specified by the payer - 
but not the payee name. A payment would be deemed correctly processed where the 
payment was sent to the account number and sort code instructed by the payer. There was 
no regulatory requirement for NatWest to carry out additional checks beyond this. 
Furthermore, implementing the current system to verify payee names required the 
participation and co-operation of multiple banks to allow that information to be shared  and 
prior to the change referred to above, that information would not routinely be shared. 
Importantly, this wasnt a change one bank could decide to implement itself  it could not 
have had ready access to the payee name details held at another financial institution.
While this represents the underlying legal and regulatory position, I understand Mr Ls 
frustration with it and why he feels NatWest should somehow have checked the account 
holders name for him despite this. But it would not be reasonable for me to find NatWest at 
fault for not checking the payee name when to do so required a system not yet implemented, 
and one it could not implement in isolation.
In short, everything Ive seen persuades me that NatWest fulfilled the payment request Mr L 
asked it to, based on what it was required to do at the time and what it was reasonably able 
to do. It sent the payment to the account number and sort-code that Mr L had instructed it to 
use.
Was this a scam and is NatWest now liable to refund Mr L or obtain the payees contact 
details?
Having said the above, there are some circumstances where, even though a customer has 
instructed and authorised their bank to make a payment, a bank should in my opinion fairly 
and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing the 
payment. Indeed, in some cases, I consider a bank ought to decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.This could be relevant where it could be reasonably established that the payment might be 
part of an attempt to defraud the customer - such as an Authorised Push Payment scam 
(APP scam).
When Mr L reported the payment to NatWest, it contacted the receiving bank to report the 
dispute. It did so on the basis of Mr Ls concerns that the payment may have resulted from a 
fraud or scam. The receiving bank investigated. But it did not identify concerns with the 
beneficiary account nor with the payment received from Mr L. It considered the matter 
between its customer and Mr L was a civil dispute rather than a fraud or scam. 
NatWest agreed and so did not reimburse Mr L under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional protection for victims of APP scams 
but is not applicable to civil disputes.
Ive therefore considered whether NatWest acted fairly by considering this matter to be one 
of civil dispute rather than fraud or scam. This question leads to whether NatWest was right 
to say it has no liability to reimburse Mr L under the CRM Code (or otherwise), and whether 
it should be required now to take steps to obtain and share the beneficiarys details.
Mr L has provided a copy of the business card he was given. This shows the name of the 
business suffixed by Ltd. Mr L found the business through a recommendation website and I 
have reviewed what appears to be the appropriate listing. That listing does not include the 
suffix Ltd on the business name. Clearly that conflicts with the wording on the business card 
Mr L has retained. 
Mr L points out that there is such a limited company listed on Companies House, but says it 
is not connected to the business he was dealing with. He says that this shows the business 
he dealt with was potentially trading fraudulently and fraudulently misrepresenting itself.
To use the suffix Ltd in relation to a business that isnt actually a limited company is clearly 
wrong. Even were this the result of an unintentional error, it is contrary to good business 
practice and potentially an offence.
But that is not the same as saying it must have been done with fraudulent intent. In other 
words, taken in itself I do not find this sufficient to conclude it must have been a scam.
The business did carry out at least some of the work Mr L had engaged it to complete - albeit 
to an unsatisfactory standard. The recommendation site reviews, on the face of it, suggest 
this is a legitimate business carrying out work which other customers were satisfied with. So 
I cannot dismiss the possibility that, despite letting Mr L down badly, this was indeed 
operating as a legitimate business. 
I am also conscious that the receiving bank has confirmed that the payee account is being 
run in a manner consistent with that situation and has been for some time. It had not 
received other reports suggesting fraud or a scam.
Overall, based on the balance of the evidence, Im not persuaded theres enough here for 
me to conclude that this was a deliberate attempt to defraud Mr L and so I dont consider this 
was an APP scam.
That means I do not find NatWest liable to reimburse Mr L under the CRM Code (or for any 
other reason), and I cannot require it to take steps to obtain the name and address of the 
payee for him.I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr L again. While I appreciate how frustrating this situation 
is for Mr L, I can only make a finding against a bank if that bank is at fault in some way. In 
this case, I dont find NatWest has acted incorrectly or that it ought to have done more than it 
did to assist Mr L. As a consequence, I cant fairly require NatWest to reimburse him for his 
losses nor require it to obtain the third-party account holder information he has requested. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman