DRN-3608416
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire agreement with LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan). 
What happened
In December 2017 Mrs A acquired a car through a hire agreement with LeasePlan. Mrs A 
paid an advanced rental of £2,580.48 which meant she had 47 further rentals of £215.04
Mrs A explained that in March 2020, LeasePlan agreed a three-month payment break for her 
which was to be repaid at the end of her agreement. 
Mrs A said in June 2021 she made a request to reduce her mileage allowance to 42,000, 
which she said would reduce her remaining repayments to £186.18 each month. Mrs A said 
the wording on the terms of the new mileage agreement, as detailed below, led her to 
believe that the amount owing from her payment break would be included in the 
recalculation of her remaining monthly repayments.
These rentals are re-calculated from Day One of the agreement and any credit or debit 
owing is then applied to the remaining rentals to be invoiced'. 
However, Mrs A said that when her agreement ended in January 2022, LeasePlan continued 
to take out the payment holiday amount over three repayments from January to March 2022. 
Mrs A said she complained to LeasePlan in February 2022, and said she wanted LeasePlan 
to refund to her the £645.12 that was taken from January to March 2022.
Mrs A said she didnt think the amount she saved by amending her mileage allowance was 
proportionate to the number of miles deducted from the agreement. Mrs A believed, that 
based on the excess mileage rate and that she reduced her allowance by 40% the amount 
saved should have been in the region of £1,489 as opposed to £144. So, Mrs A believes it 
was fair for her to assume the payment holiday amount had been included in the revised 
repayment amounts.
In April 2022 LeasePlan provided their final response to Mrs As complaint, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. LeasePlan said the rentals were recalculated based on the contract 
having been paid up to date, and that the payment holiday wasnt considered along with the 
recalculation as theyd been moved to the end of the agreement.
In their file submission to us LeasePlan also confirmed that Mrs A was granted a payment 
holiday for May 2020 to July 2020. They also provided us with a copy of the modifying 
agreement which confirmed that the new monthly rentals of £186.18 would be payable from 
August 2021 until the end of the agreement which they had recorded as 4 January 2022.
Lease Plan also said the wording that Mrs A referred to on the new mileage agreement 
referred to any debit or credit resulting from the new mileage calculation, as opposed to 
debits or unpaid invoices on the account which remain due.
Unhappy with their decision, in April 2022 Mrs A brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. Mrs A also advised that as LeasePlan had already deducted the £645.12 from 
her account shed cancelled her direct debit and refused to pay the end of contract charges 
relating to the termination rental and excess wear and tear which amounted to £338.63. Mrs 
A said she didnt dispute the end of contract charges but wanted a refund of the £645.12 in 
the first instance. 
Our investigator gave their view that LeasePlan didnt need to take any action as theyd fairly 
explained the payment amendment and so didnt ask them to do anything.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs A asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mrs A complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts like this is 
a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mrs As complaint about LeasePlan. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have set out 11 principles of business which all 
firms under the regulatory system are obliged to adhere to. Principle seven says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
Mrs A said that the wording of the mileage amendment agreement led her to believe that the 
payment holiday had been recalculated to be included in the final repayments of the 
agreement. Mrs A also said, had she known it wasnt included she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the mileage amendment.
So, to decide if LeasePlan have acted fairly, Ive considered whether they provided Mrs A 
with enough information relating to the payment holiday and modifying agreement.
In April 2020 LeasePlan sent Mrs A an email confirming the details of her payment holiday. 
The email advised that she didnt have to pay her rentals for May 2020 to July 2020 and that 
shed be obliged to pay these in the three months immediately after the termination of the 
hire agreement. Mrs A confirmed to us that shed taken the payment break.
In June 2021 LeasePlan sent Mrs A the modifying agreement which confirmed details of her 
revised rentals following her amendment to the mileage allowance. The modifying 
agreement stated the formal end date of January 2022 which was the same end date as the 
original agreement, and which was around six months from when the modification started. I 
acknowledge LeasePlan stated on the modification document that the rentals are calculated 
from day one of the contract with and debit or credit being applied to the remainder of the 
rentals. However, in their final response LeasePlan advised the payment holiday wasnt 
included in the calculations for the modification as theyd been moved to the end of the 
agreement. Mrs A believes the calculations arent fair based on the additional mileage 
charge rates.Having considered all the details of this complaint, although I can appreciate why Mrs A may 
have questioned the terms, I think its reasonable to consider the payment holiday terms 
were to be considered aside from the modifying agreement. 
When the modification started, Mrs A had less than six months remaining on her agreement. 
On balance, I dont think itd be right to consider the payment holiday was to be condensed 
into the remaining payments. I say this because had that been the case, the value of the 
payment holiday would have to be split over the remaining term and added to the revised 
payments. That wouldve been an additional £129 each month over the remaining term on 
top of the revised payments. 
The modification agreement confirmed the new payments were £186.18. So, in effect had 
the payment holiday been incorporated in the remaining five monthly payments, I think its 
fair to say the revised payments would be disproportionately low in comparison to the 
payment holiday amount.
I acknowledge what Mrs A says about the excess mileage rate; however, Im satisfied that it 
isnt proportionate to use that value as a reasonable comparison in the circumstances. The 
terms of the agreement show that the excess mileage charges are tiered and based on the 
percentage of usage in excess of the original allowance; and so isnt likely to be reflective of 
the standard costs for hiring the vehicle. 
All things considered; Im satisfied LeasePlan provided Mrs A with sufficient information 
regarding the payment holiday and the modification amendment to ensure she was able to 
make an informed choice about the proposed mileage amendment. This was outlined in 
LeasePlans confirmation email to Mrs A explaining how the payment holiday worked and in 
their modification agreement. Ive not seen any evidence that says any modifications 
superseded the terms of the payment holiday. 
In the circumstances I dont think there was any requirement for LeasePlan to provide any 
further information. In consideration that Mrs A was free to question or clarify details with 
LeasePlan prior to going ahead with the changes.
I acknowledge my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs A, however Im satisfied that 
my outcome is the fairest in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mrs A complaint against LeasePlan UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman