DRN-4232900
The complaint
Mr F is represented.
In 2018 he was advised by Prestige Wealth Solutions (PWS) to transfer his Defined 
Benefits Pension to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), and 
into an offshore Investment Bond provided by Omega Financial Solutions (OFS). In 2020 
his PWS adviser introduced him to Hoxton Capital Management (UK) Ltd (Hoxton), and the 
ongoing servicing of his pension portfolio was moved there in June that year. He then 
complained, through his representative, in 2021.
His representative says  
The pension transfer (and underlying investment) advice in 2018 was unsuitable. 
[issue 1] 
Hoxton should be held responsible for the unsuitable 2018 advice because, in 2020, 
it should have reviewed the transfer and identified (and addressed) its unsuitability; 
and it is noteworthy that the same PWS adviser (from 2018) moved to Hoxton at the 
same time to continue servicing the pension portfolio. Furthermore, it is responsible 
for an undisclosed investment exit penalty he incurred. [issue 2]
Hoxton churned Mr Fs pension portfolio from 2020 onwards. [issue 3]
Hoxton disputes the complaint. It says it has no responsibility in issue 1, that it suitably 
reviewed the pension portfolio and that it refutes the allegation in issue 3.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and first addressed our jurisdiction. He 
said Hoxton is not the correct respondent in issue 1 because PWS advised the transfer in 
2018 and Hoxton had nothing to do with that advice  so Mr F is not an eligible complainant 
in issue 1 and the issue is outside our jurisdiction. He found that, in issue 2, Hoxtons 
obligation to review the pension portfolio in 2020 did not and does not create a responsibility 
for issue 1. He concluded that we have jurisdiction to look into Hoxton obligation to review 
the portfolio (as it was in 2020) and the allegation in issue 3, but nothing else.
Mr F and his representative disagreed with the investigators views on issues 1 and 2. They 
restated their assertion about Hoxtons responsibility to review and address the 2018 
transfer. 
They mainly argued that, in the 2020 review, Hoxton should have been aware of regulatory 
guidance and rules which meant, in the absence of grounds to consider otherwise, the 
transfer had to be viewed as unsuitable; that there were no grounds to consider otherwise; 
that by having the same adviser in common, the connection between PWS and Hoxton is 
established; that there is evidence the adviser directly serviced the pension portfolio under 
Hoxton from the point its service began, despite the named adviser on documents being a 
colleague; that there is also evidence he did so before he was authorised by the regulator to 
provide such advice, so Hoxton failed to protect Mr Fs interests in this respect and breached 
regulatory principles; that allowing the adviser to review his own 2018 advice amounted to 
an unmanaged conflict of interests, and also breached regulatory principles; and that PWS 
operated under a UK regulated firm.
The investigator responded to the points raised but he was not persuaded to change his 
view on our jurisdiction. He acknowledged that our jurisdiction remained in dispute but, for 
the sake of completion, he shared his findings on the merits of the case (within the remit set 
in his jurisdiction view). He concluded that the complaint should not be upheld and mainly 
said the following  
Mr F was introduced, by the adviser, to Hoxton in June 2020. He agreed a change of 
agency, to Hoxton, for the pension portfolio and agreed its 0.5% fee for its ongoing 
servicing. 
The fund switch report produced in the same month, at no initial charge, confirmed 
that he had a moderate risk profile and investment horizon of 10+ years; that he had 
medium level investment knowledge and experience; and that his objectives were to 
have his investments reviewed, to keep ongoing costs at a minimum, to diversify his 
investments, and to retain his holdings (already within the portfolio) in Sound Energy 
PLC (SE) and Guinness Global Innovators (the GGI fund). 
At the time of the review, over 80% of the portfolio was invested in the Marlborough 
Guernsey-domiciled fund (the Marlborough fund); just over 13% was invested in the 
GGI fund; around 5% was held in cash; and around 1% was invested in SE shares.
The SE shares and GGI fund holding were retained, as Mr F requested. Hoxton 
recommended liquidation of the Marlborough fund holding and reinvestment of the 
proceeds across a balanced portfolio of eight new fund holdings (with exposures to 
equities and bonds). The report said this achieved his cost reduction goal because it 
lowered the overall costs in the portfolio from around 2.60% to 0.60%, and that the 
new funds also matched his diversification objective. The report also informed him 
about the exit penalty to be incurred in liquidating the Marlborough fund holding, but 
said this should be recoverable through the ongoing costs savings over time.
Mr F signed the dealing instruction for liquidation of the Marlborough fund holding. 
Evidence directly from Marlborough confirms that Hoxton did not benefit from the 
liquidation and that it received no trail commission for the holding. Hoxton earned 
only the 0.5% fee for ongoing servicing. The fund switch at the point of onboarding  
that is, the liquidation he instructed and the reinvestments he agreed  was the 
extent of what Hoxton did in the portfolio. There is no evidence of it engaging in 
frequent and excessive trading against Mr Fs interest, amounting to churning. 
Hoxton reviewed the portfolio as it was supposed to, its recommendations met Mr Fs 
profile and objective, and were not unsuitable. Its review of the portfolio did not mean 
it inherited responsibility for its suitability at the outset or prior to its service. 
Mr F and his representative disagreed with this outcome. Their disagreement with the 
jurisdiction view remained and they maintained their main arguments for that and for the 
complaint (as a whole). 
In addition, they listed the regulatory principles they say Hoxtons actions (or inactions) have 
breached; they referred to a statement from Mr Fs new adviser saying there was a 3 - 5% 
upfront commission arising from the Marlborough fund holding at the outset which was concealed from him, and that the associated surrender charges were also concealed; they 
said it was unrealistic to expect cost savings over time to recover the exit penalty amount, 
and there is no evidence (or calculation) to show otherwise; they highlighted his submission 
that he was unaware of the 10 years term he was committed to in the fund and the penalty, 
and would have probably considered against the transfer if he was aware; they argued that 
the penalty rendered the recommendation unsuitable; and they said the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) has addressed OFS role in his complaint about the 
Investment Bond so it is unclear why we cannot address the entire complaint.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Our jurisdiction in Mr Fs case remains in dispute. His representative says we have, or 
should have, jurisdiction to determine issue 1, and to determine Hoxtons responsibility for 
issue 1 (which forms a part of issue 2). As summarised above, the investigator found 
otherwise, and the matter (alongside the investigators findings on merits) has been referred 
to me.
Hoxton is the complaint respondent, so treating issue 1 is necessary only if it relates to 
Hoxton. The complaint respondent is not the individual adviser that previously worked for 
PWS and then moved to Hoxton. 
Issue 1s connection to Hoxton is part of the allegations summarised in issue 2. Mr F says 
there are grounds to draw such a connection. To determine the alleged connection, I am 
required to apply our jurisdiction rules, as they are, to evidence of the facts. I do this below. I 
have noted and considered all the arguments from Mr Fs representative, including those 
about our jurisdiction. If and where those arguments are relevant, I will address them.
The regulators Handbook includes said rules for our jurisdiction under its Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) provisions. DISP 2.3.1(R) says we can consider complaints about regulated 
activities. The Regulated Activities Order 2001 provides a list of such activities. In the 
context of investments (including pension investments), the regulated activity relevant to    
Mr Fs complaint is advising on investments. It is his claim in issue 1 that the pension 
transfer (and underlying investment) advice in 2018 was unsuitable and part of his claim in 
issue 2 is that Hoxton should be held responsible for the alleged unsuitable advice.
Advising on investments is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor and advice on the merits of his doing 
any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
It is an undisputable fact that Hoxton did not conduct this activity in 2018. It was not Mr Fs 
adviser at the time. PWS, a distinct and separate entity, was his adviser and PWS advised the pension transfer and underlying investment. His introduction to Hoxton did not happen 
until 2020, when his pension portfolio was moved to its service.
The adviser appears to have moved from PWS to Hoxton in 2020. I note Hoxtons 
submission that he did not do so until 2021, but I have seen evidence of him declaring that 
the portfolio was under his direct service (within Hoxton) in 2020. Both firms remained 
distinct and separate. There is no evidence that Hoxton undertook PWS business in any 
way, or undertook its liability for the 2018 advice in any way. Such an event has not even 
been claimed by any party.
As I address in the next section (about merits) the argument about Hoxtons duty to review 
the pension portfolio is correct. However, there is nothing in the facts of the case, in the 
relevant regulations or in applicable law that says the duty extended to inheriting or sharing 
liability for PWS 2018 advice.
For the above reasons, it is a matter of fact that the regulated activity alleged in issue 1 
was/is completely remote and unrelated to Hoxton. This also means, contrary to the 
allegation in issue 2, there is no connection between the regulated activity in issue 1 and 
Hoxton.
The regulators rules for eligibility to complain are that  an eligible complainant must be a 
consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a guarantor 
[DISP 2.7.3 R]; and an eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a 
relationship covered by the rules [DISP 2.7.6 R].
Given the facts, the consumer category is the only one under DISP 2.7.3 R relevant to      
Mr F. He does not fall into any of the other categories. Guidance from the rules says a 
consumer is any natural person acting for purposes outside his [or her] trade, business or 
profession. Evidence shows he meets this definition. I have seen nothing to show or suggest 
that he engaged with his pension in the course of his trade, business or profession.
However, as emphasised above, the second part of the requirement must also be applied. 
The rule under DISP 2.7.6 R covers a number of relationships, including that between a 
customer (or potential customer) and a business. This is relevant to Mr F because the 
transfer of his pension account to Hoxton features in the complaint and he seeks to hold 
Hoxton responsible for the pension before that.
It is a matter of fact, and it is not disputed, that Mr F became Hoxtons customer at the point 
his pension portfolio moved to its agency. His representative says he was engaging with 
Hoxton earlier in 2020 before the change of agency formally happened. This appears to 
have been likely and I agree with his representatives argument that he would have been a 
potential customer at the time (before the formal change of agency). 
However, it is also a matter of fact that he was neither a potential customer nor a customer 
of Hoxton in 2018; and that, with regards to the events in 2020, the complaint issues 
(concerning review of the pension portfolio and the churning allegation) mean only its 
responsibilities from when it undertook agency are relevant. I repeat that the complaint 
respondent is Hoxton, not the individual adviser. In addition, the rule and guidance above 
relates to a complainant and the business/firm s/he has complained about. Therefore, and 
with regards to the 2018 advice, Mr Fs arguments about his continuing relationship with the 
adviser, and about PWS and Hoxton having the adviser in common, are irrelevant to 
determining the relationship requirement for his eligibility as a complainant. 
Mr F and his representative say PWS could have been operating under a UK regulated firm. 
The present complaint is not against PWS (or, if any, its parent company), so this is not relevant. They also refer to his FSCS case and appear to argue that the FSCS jurisdiction 
should influence ours. Our jurisdiction is as stated in the DISP section of the regulators 
Handbook and I have applied the relevant parts above. I do not have discretion to do 
otherwise.
For the above reasons, I conclude that I do not have jurisdiction to address issue 1, 
responsibility for issue 1 is unrelated to the complaint, and my remit is limited to determining 
the merits of the pension portfolio review matter (including the allegation about not disclosing 
the exit penalty during the review) in issue 2 and the churning allegation in issue 3.
Merits
Alongside the complaint issues, submissions have been made for Mr F about alleged 
regulatory breaches by Hoxton. They include the claim that Hoxton mismanaged a conflict of 
interest. I understand the allegations, but our service is not the industry regulator. If and 
where they are relevant to determination of the merits of the complaint issues they will be 
considered in that context. However, it is beyond my remit to investigate and make findings 
on alleged regulatory breaches in isolation. I will not be doing that. That is a matter for the 
regulator.
With regards to the conflict of interests allegation, only if a wrongdoing(s) by Hoxton in the 
complaint issues is found would it be necessary to address it  that is, in order to consider 
whether (or not) a mismanaged conflict of interest caused or contributed to such 
wrongdoing. Otherwise, the matter will be no more than a part of the alleged regulatory 
breaches by Hoxton, and I have explained above my approach towards that. 
Issue 2 (Pension Portfolio Review and Exit Penalty)
Hoxton reviewed Mr Fs pension when it undertook agency in 2020. Its fund switch report of 
10 June 2020 confirms this explicitly as follows (on its second page)  Review and analysis 
of your existing pension held with Momentum Malta and RL360 [my emphasis]. I have not 
seen evidence that he objected to the reports contents at the time, so I consider them 
reliable.
The question to address is therefore not about whether (or not) Hoxton reviewed the pension 
portfolio. It did that. The question to address is whether (or not) its review advice, based on 
the portfolio as it was at the time of the review, was suitable. It was not responsible for past 
advice on the portfolio, but it was responsible for its suitability from the point of the review 
onwards.
The report says Mr Fs profile at the time of the review included the following  objectives to 
review the portfolio, to keep ongoing costs to a minimum, to diversify the portfolio and to 
retain the SE shares and GGI fund holding; a moderate (or balanced) risk profile; a medium 
capacity for loss; capacity for a 10+ years investment term; and a medium level of 
investment knowledge and experience (including past structured notes investment 
experience).
He did not ask for advice on a pension switch, nor did he ask for advice on whether (or not) 
the 2018 pension transfer was suitable. Hoxton appears to concede that it considered 
neither of these. With regards to the former, I have not seen grounds to say Hoxton ought 
reasonably to have looked into and/or recommended a pension switch in 2020, and the 
regulators stance against conducting such switches without good cause is well known (and 
was well known at the time). Hoxton could have taken (and shared) a view on the suitability of the 2018 transfer, but the 
fact that it did not does not automatically establish a wrongdoing. There is evidence that it 
reacted, and gave its attention, to the instruction to review and rebalance the portfolio 
promptly. That was not unreasonable. Furthermore, I have not seen evidence that a 
recommendation to reverse the 2018 transfer would have been suitable and, jointly, viable in 
all the circumstances as they were in June 2020. Perhaps such a review might have 
produced information from which Mr F then considered a complaint about the transfer 
(related to PWS), but for the above reasons I am not satisfied that Hoxton did something 
wrong by not reviewing the transfer (on its own).
As the investigator noted, Hoxton observed Mr Fs instruction to retain the SE shares and 
GGI fund holding. The pension portfolio was his to determine as he wished, so Hoxton was 
obliged to do that. It could not have reasonably done otherwise. Furthermore, Mr Fs position 
on these holdings were reasoned. It appears that he sought to avoid crystalising a significant 
paper loss in the SE shares and he held a bullish outlook for the performance of the GGI 
fund. Therefore, my consideration of the suitability of the review discounts these holdings. In 
total, both holdings occupied just under 15% of the portfolio, so Hoxtons task was 
essentially to review the remainder 85% of the portfolio.
Around 80% of the portfolio was occupied by the Marlborough fund holding and around 5% 
was held in cash. Hoxton recommended a full liquidation of the former and retention of the 
latter. Its advice was to invest 27% of the liquidation proceeds in two bond-based funds; 24% 
equally split between a developed world equities index fund and an emerging markets 
equities index fund; 10% in a world index fund and another 10% in the Royal London 
Sustainable World Trust C fund; 19% in a Vanguard LifeStrategy fund (60% equities 
weighted and 40% bonds weighted); and 10% in the Fundsmith Equity I Acc fund. The 
recommendation was implemented and Mr F signed the dealing instruction for all the 
reinvestments.
In the context of the portfolio (as a whole), the bond-based fund holdings occupied just over 
20%, the developed and emerging markets equities index fund holdings occupied around 
20%, the world index fund holding occupied 8%, the other new holdings (which had a mix of 
equities and bonds related assets, but more of the former) occupied around 31%, then the 
allocations for the SE shares, GGI fund holding and cash remained as they were.
In terms of objectives and risk, I do not consider that the review/rebalancing was unsuitable. 
As summarised above, the portfolio presented a reasonable match for a balanced risk profile 
 riskier equities related assets reasonably balanced by a suitable amount of less risky 
bonds related assets. Furthermore, the eight funds (and their percentage allocations) 
broadly reflected Hoxtons balanced model portfolio. I have considered the factsheet for this 
model portfolio and the factsheets for the individual funds. They all present a reasonable 
match for a moderate/balanced risk profile, in terms of asset classes and market/sector 
exposures. 
The funds had a combination of growth objectives and combined growth and income 
objectives, and this too suitably matched the interests of a pension portfolio  whereby 
growth is needed to sustain long-term income, by providing a basis for such income 
generation and by preventing erosion of capital (as a result of income withdrawals over 
time). 
The funds also addressed the cost reduction and diversification objectives.
Hoxton made no initial charge for the review/rebalancing. Only its 0.5% ongoing service fee 
applied. No ongoing charge was incurred for the SE shares and for the cash holding, but 
Ongoing Charges Figures (OCFs) applied for the others. The total OCF for the portfolio was reduced from 2.63% (prior to the review) to 0.64% (after the review). This matched Mr Fs 
pursuit for a reduction in ongoing costs.
His representative has highlighted the exit penalty (of almost £10,000) that was incurred in 
liquidating the Marlborough fund holding. This penalty (and its amount) was referred to in the 
fund switch report, so it is not the case that it was not brought to Mr Fs attention. Hoxton 
had no responsibility for the recommendation of this holding, so I do not consider the 
arguments about the holdings minimum term and exit penalty being concealed from him, 
and about what he would have done (but for the concealment) relevant to the present 
complaint. The same applies to the suitability of the exit penalty, because Hoxton was not 
responsible for that. Its advice triggered application of the penalty, but as I address next I am 
not persuaded it did anything wrong in giving the advice.
The circumstances that Hoxton faced appear to have been somewhat pre-determined, and 
they created a scope that was inherently limited. It had the choice between recommending a 
portfolio with ongoing costs savings (to match one of the objectives) by rebalancing the 
Marlborough fund holding, or retaining that holding in order to avoid the exit penalty (thereby 
essentially do nothing with the portfolio). The Marlborough fund holding had to be the focus 
of the review/rebalancing. The SE shares and GGI fund holding could not be touched, as per 
Mr Fs instructions. It was arguably sensible to retain the cash allocation as it was, and even 
if it was not, rebalancing only 5% of the portfolio (which was the cash allocation) was unlikely 
to make any difference to it or to its ongoing costs.
In other words, the Marlborough fund holding was the scope given to Hoxton for its 
review/rebalancing. In this context, its advice to liquidate it and rebalance the space it took in 
the portfolio was inevitable, and the exit penalty was an unavoidable consequence. Its 
recommendation to liquidate the fund was coupled with the recommendation of the eight 
new holdings. They had a mix of equities and bond-based assets. They included developed 
and emerging market exposures, direct equities investments and equities index-based 
investments, and funds which were individually diversified (internally) in terms of asset 
classes. 
This achieved a reasonably good level of diversification. In terms of fund management 
diversification, the recommendation also appears to have been better for the portfolio than 
the Marlborough fund holding. The mix of holdings in eight funds which appear to have been 
run by at least five different fund managers was more diversified than the holding in the 
Marlborough fund, in which other than a 2% cash allocation the underlying sub-funds were 
all managed by Marlborough.
In terms of ongoing costs and diversification, I do not consider that the review/rebalancing 
was unsuitable. I also do not consider that the recommended investments mismatched      
Mr Fs investment knowledge and experience at the time. They did not introduce investment 
types that he had no previous experience of.
Overall, on balance and for all the above reasons. I conclude that Hoxtons review and 
rebalancing of Mr Fs pension portfolio was not unsuitable. I do not uphold issue 2.
Issue 3 (Churning Allegation)
The relevant regulatory definitions of churning are: 
A series of transactions that are each suitable when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade are made with a frequency that is not in the 
best interests of the client.Principle 6 (Customers interests) requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its
customers, and treat them fairly. A firm should therefore not churn a customers
account, that is, enter into transactions with unnecessary frequency having regard to the
customers agreed investment strategy. A firm should also not switch a private customer
within or between packaged products unnecessarily, having regard to what is suitable for
that customer. Firms are reminded that a customers interests are paramount.
These quotes focus on the frequency with which a firm carries out transactions for its client, 
on the motive behind such transactions and on the clients best interests. The overall effect 
is that frequent transactions in a clients portfolio should be reasoned, and they ought not to 
be carried out only or mainly for the purpose of generating commission for the firm. Instead, 
they should be carried out in the clients best interests. 
The scope for churning in an advisory service is more limited than that in a discretionary 
service, because a firm gives advice but the client retains the final decision on whether (or 
not) any trading or transaction (from the advice) is executed. Nevertheless, in some cases it 
might still be possible for clients receiving an advisory service to be unduly influenced by a 
firms advice  to the extent of following unreasoned or poorly reasoned frequent transaction 
recommendations without questioning them  so I have considered issue 3 in this context. 
Mr F received an advisory service from Hoxton. However, I have not seen evidence of 
churning in his case, and the circumstances of the case do not appear to have allowed for 
such that. The review and fund switch advice was the only advice he received from Hoxton 
before he terminated its service, so there is no evidence of a high frequency of trading 
recommendations from it (or undue influence on Mr F to agree such recommendations). 
As set out above, the remit for its advice was essentially predetermined and limited to 
rebalancing the Marlborough fund holding (and the space it took in the pension portfolio). 
There is evidence directly from Marlborough that Hoxton derived no financial benefit from the 
holding or from its liquidation, and that it received no trail commission from it. It did not apply 
an initial charge for the review/rebalancing and it did not charge separately for implementing 
the investments it recommended. Its set (and agreed) fee was for ongoing servicing of the 
pension portfolio, and that fee was not connected to trading or transaction activity. 
For the above reasons, it has not been established that Hoxton churned Mr Fs pension 
portfolio. I do not uphold issue 3.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman