DRN-3330479
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim made on her
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G had the benefit of an annual, standard, multi-trip travel insurance policy,
underwritten by ERGO (the policy). The policy was bought in July 2020 and covered the 
period 9 August 2020 to 8 August 2021.
In early December 2020, Ms G booked a trip to a country Ill call P departing on 24 
December 2020 and returning on 1 January 2021. Ps government announced a ban on all 
passenger travel (with the exception of Ps citizens and those legally resident in P) between 
the UK and P from 24:00 (GMT) on 20 December 2020.
Around the same time the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) 
advised against all but essential travel to mainland P based on the current assessment of 
Covid-19 risks.
Also, on 19 December 2020, the UK government announced that everyone in England 
should stay local. And those in tier 4 areas  which included where Ms G lived and also the 
airports, she had been due to depart from and return to  werent permitted to travel abroad 
apart from limited exceptions such as for work purposes. 
As a result, Ms Gs trip was cancelled. She managed to obtain a refund for her outbound 
flight to P and her pre-paid accommodation costs from third parties. However, as her return 
flight to the UK still went ahead, the airline she was due to fly with didnt refund her the cost 
of that flight. 
Ms G made a claim on the policy for the cost of the return flight. As she was unable to travel 
to P, she says it was impossible for her to use the return flight shed booked. ERGO declined 
the claim because the reason which led to her trip being cancelled wasnt listed as an 
insured peril covered under the cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy. 
ERGO also said that the policy didnt cover any claims relating to government regulations.
Unhappy, Ms G complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Ms 
G disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERGO has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably 
reject a claim.
I know Ms G will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below Im satisfied ERGO 
has acted fairly and reasonably when declining her claim. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, page 15 of the policy sets out the 
circumstances under which ERGO provides cover if a trip is cancelled. These are accurately 
set out in our investigators view dated 11 February 2022.
This section does provide cover for cancellation claims caused by Ms G (or any person with 
whom shed arranged to travel with) being subject to the compulsory quarantine. Although I 
make no finding about whether the UK governments announcement on 19 December 2020 
effectively meant Ms G was subject to compulsory quarantine, even if it did, Im ultimately 
satisfied that ERGOs decision to decline her claim was fair and reasonable. Ill explain why. 
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Ms Gs claim. I think 
a combination of factors  the prevalence of Covid-19, the FCDO advice and government 
restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on 
her trip being cancelled. But Im satisfied ERGO has acted reasonably by concluding that Ms 
G was unable to travel to P as a result of government regulations. The government of P had 
banned those from the UK travelling to the country (other than in limited circumstances 
which didnt apply to Ms G). 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out exclusions specifically relating to cancellation 
claims. And on page 16, clause 6, it expressly says Ms G isnt covered for:
Government regulations (other than in respect of compulsory quarantine)
So, I think ERGO has acted fairly by concluding the Government regulations exclusion 
applied to the circumstances of Ms Gs claim  so the claim was excluded. 
However, even if I were to accept that it was the UK governments announcement on 19 
December 2020 which was the main reason for the trip being cancelled - and even if this 
could reasonbaly be said to amount to compulsory quarantine (which I make no finding on) - 
Im not persuaded that the claim would be covered anyway because the policy (at pages 14 
and 15) includes general exclusions which applies to all sections of the policy  including the 
cancellation section. 
Clauses 7 and 8 say ERGO shall not be liable for:
Claims arising from or related to any coronavirus including but not limited to COVID-
19, or any related/mutated form of the virus
Claims arising from any epidemic or pandemic as declared by the World Health 
Organisation.
So, even if ERGO has unreasonably relied on the government regulation exclusion to 
decline Ms Gs claim (which I dont think it has), I also think these two general exclusions 
would be applicable to the circumstances of Ms Gs claim. Thats because the underlying 
reason for the government of P banning travel for those travelling from the UK related to 
Covid-19 (which was a pandemic declared by the World Health Organisation). And Covid-19 
was the underlying reason for the UK governments announcement on 19 December 2020. 
I appreciate Ms G has been left out of pocket as a result of her not being able to go on her 
trip (and therefore not being able to use her return flight back to the UK), through no fault of 
her own. But travel insurance policies dont cover every scenario. Although Ms Gs friend  
who shed been due to travel to P with - had her claim paid under her travel insurance policy, 
it looks like that was done as a gesture of goodwill. But that doesnt necessarily mean ERGO has unfairly declined Ms Gs claim or has acted unfairly by not reimbursing her for the cost of 
the return flight as a gesture of goodwill. Travel insurance policies are different and often 
contain different terms depending on the risks each individual insurer wants to insure, and 
the level of cover purchased. Having considered the terms of the policy Ms G had the benefit 
of, I dont think ERGO acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim for the reasons 
set out above.
Ms G also says the UK press reported that the UK government provided assurances that no-
one would be left out of pocket if their travel plans were disrupted as a result of the UK 
government announcement. However, I dont think that means ERGO ought to have 
reasonably accepted Ms Gs claim even though it wasnt covered under the terms of the 
policy she had the benefit of. 
Ms G also says that when declining her claim, ERGO failed to provide her with details of her 
right to complain  or referral rights to our Service. However, I dont think there was any 
obligation on ERGO (regulatory or otherwise) to do this at the point of declining Ms Gs claim 
here. I can see that it did provide referral rights to our Service after shed complained about 
ERGOs decision to decline the claim, in ERGOs final response letter dated 25 February 
2021. So, I dont think ERGO acted unfairly in this respect. 
Ms G is also unhappy about the time taken by ERGO to assess her claim and provide its 
decision on her claim. On 25 February 2021 ERGO apologised for the inconvenience 
caused regarding any delays experienced whilst waiting on a response to her claim and 
subsequent submitted correspondence. It said it had experienced an unprecedented number 
of enquiries as a result of Covid-19 and was doing its best to ensure customers received the 
best possible attention in such difficult times. 
Given the UK governments announcement on 19 December 2020, once again restricting 
peoples movement (including travel abroad), I accept that ERGO wouldve received an 
unexpected increase in the number of queries and claims it had to deal with from 
policyholders. And although this impacted the overall service Ms G received - and is likely to 
have meant she waited a couple of weeks longer than she otherwise wouldve - Im satisfied 
that an apology is sufficient in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman