DRN-2351195
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about claim she made on an insurance policy she had with The Equine 
and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELI). She is unhappy the death claim she made 
following the insured pony being euthanised was declined and she doesnt believe shes 
been treated fairly. 
What happened
In early 2019 ELI sent Mrs M a quote for an insurance policy for her pony. The policy 
provided cover for death, theft and straying, vets fees and public liability. In relation to the 
death benefit, the quote explained the sum insured would be paid out if the horse died or 
was put to sleep on immediate humane grounds.
Enclosed with the quote was a insurance product information document, also known as a 
key facts document. This detailed the main points of what was and wasnt insured. The first 
point under what is not insured was Euthanasia without our permission unless a vet 
confirms it was on immediate humane grounds. 
Mrs M accepted the quote and the policy went into force in mid-February 2019. The letter 
sent by ELI said any details she needed to know about the policy were contained in the 
policy schedule (which was enclosed), the key facts document previously sent, a demands 
and needs statement (enclosed) and the policy wording. The enclosed policy schedule 
detailed the cover the policy provided and said it, together with the policy wording, outlined 
the terms of cover. Mrs M has said the policy wording wasnt provided and ELI confirmed 
that an administrative issue meant that document wasnt included with the letter. 
In November 2019 the pony suffered from lameness in one of its front legs. It was diagnosed 
as a problem with a tendon in the leg. The policy provided cover of up to £4,500 per 
condition, less the policy excess and ELI paid out £3,714 in respect to the lameness. 
In mid-December Mrs M requested a copy of the policy documents. These were sent to her 
a few days later.  
The pony was referred to a veterinary hospital in December 2019 and Mrs M was told the 
pony could be operated on. She was given the costing of the treatment depending on 
whether there was sepsis present. The conversation progressed to discussing possible 
euthanasia of the pony. The vet hospital confirmed that it was an option, but if it was done 
without attempting treatment the requirements under the insurance policy for claiming 
mortality compensation wouldnt be met. The sepsis test was positive.
Mrs M also discussed the ponys situation with her own vet. She has recounted that she was 
told that the pony might need more than one operation and there was no guarantee it would 
be successful. Even if it was successful, she was told there would likely be residual issues. 
Mrs M has said her vet recommended the pony be put to sleep for humane reasons. The vet 
communicated this decision to the vet hospital for the pony to be euthanised the following 
day. 
The day the pony was euthanised, but before it happened, Mrs Ms vet called ELI. ELIs 
notes of that conversation record that Mrs Ms vet confirmed that it hadnt seen the pony for 
almost a week. As such, ELI didnt confirm liability for the death claim as it couldnt be 
satisfied the criteria for immediate humane destruction had been met. It was noted Mrs Ms 
vet disagreed with the hospital about whether British Equine Veterinary Association (BEVA) 
requirements were met. The vet was told a post-mortem would be needed to evidence a 
death claim.
The vet hospital also called Mrs M before it followed instruction to euthanise the pony. Mrs M 
confirmed the instruction. The vet hospital again highlighted that putting the pony to sleep at 
that stage wouldnt meet the criteria for claiming mortality benefit under an insurance policy, 
as there were treatment options available. Mrs M again confirmed the euthanasia should be 
undertaken.
A claim form was completed for the death benefits provided by the policy. Mrs Ms vet said 
Humane destruction carried out as MRI showed septic focus within the tendon + all agreed 
(incl. [surgeon at treating vet hospital] that horse has poor prognosis for soundness and was 
in a lot of pain.
ELI declined the claim as Mrs Ms vet had detailed that the pony had been put down on 
humane grounds, but that there had been treatment options available and the euthanasia 
had not been done on immediate human grounds. In addition, the hospital notes confirmed 
that it had explained to Mrs M both the day before and the day of the euthanasia, that as 
there were treatment options available for the pony, it was unlikely the criteria for claiming 
death benefit would be met under her insurance policy. ELI was satisfied the criteria for 
claiming the death benefit under the policy hadnt been met. 
Mrs M complained, but ELI didnt change its decision. It remained satisfied the evidence 
showed there were treatment options available and so the pony hadnt been euthanised 
because there were immediate humane grounds.
When referring her complaint to this service Mrs M summarised that she felt shed been 
treated unfairly because:
the documentation issued before the sale was unclear;
she wasnt given the policy wording the business relied on;
ELIs interpretation of the policy is restrictive and it would be almost impossible for a valid 
claim to be made;
she made a decision based on the advice she was given from the vet believing she 
would be covered;
the warning from the hospital that the death claim might not be covered, was disregarded 
by her because her own vet disagreed about treatment, and she thought the hospital 
was just trying to make money;
a common usage of immediate would be complied with by her own vet saying the pony 
should be put to sleep as soon as possible and without moving it. BEVA guidelines were 
introduced with hindsight;
no consideration has been given to the practical or economical aspects of the possibility 
of treatment. She could not have proceeded with treatment for financial reasons, the 
ponys condition would have deteriorated and at some point this would have led to 
immediate euthanasia according to the BEVA criterial;
the cover provided has the alternatives of permission or the BEVA guidelines being 
complied with, for euthanasia without permission. ELI withholding permission because her own vet hadnt seen the pony for some days was unfair as her own vet knew what 
was happening; and
no assistance or adjustments were given to help her understand the cover at the time, 
given her medical situation. She wasnt in a fit state to evaluate what she was being told. 
Had she been fit and in possession of the facts, she would have been more challenging 
and may have achieved permission with support from her vet.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint, but she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. She said that the investigators view was based on legal interpretation of 
the policy and centred around market practice, rather than focusing on it from the 
perspective of a layperson who thought the cover they had bought was sufficient to cover the 
type of situation she found herself in. She said she consider the wording of the policy is 
restrictive and complex, which is, in itself, unfair. She said that based on her reading of the 
key features document she would have expected the claim to be covered and it was only 
after the claim was refused, that she realised the restrictive interpretation of immediate. It is 
unfair to expect her to have understood the cover available at the point of sale without the 
full contract, a copy of the guidelines and examples of what would and would not be 
covered. She believes that immediate is subjective in common language, but made 
unreasonable specific by the guidelines. 
She also considers that it is unfair for the insurer not to offer guidance about cover  she 
says she was asking ELI to help her understand the cover. She said she would expect an 
insurer to apply their expertise to an event and quickly communicate whether or not it is 
covered. She believes ELI abdicated completely and refused to provide any comment on 
cover, rather in such situations it waits for policyholders to make their own decision, and then 
looks to for reasons to avoid paying a claim. Mrs M maintains that had she been helped in 
the manner she wanted, she could have discussed the consent point in more detail and 
explored the issue of inevitable deterioration of the ponys condition. She may also have 
been able to get a second opinion about its condition and debated the viability of treatment 
options. 
Mrs M highlighted that had she decided not to treat the pony at all, eventually its condition 
would have deteriorated to the point where it would have required immediate euthanasia. 
She said that a compassionate person wouldnt do that, but a valid claim could have been 
manufactured. Mrs M also said it wasnt fair of the investigator to have said she could have 
followed up on the insurers error in not providing the policy wording with the policy schedule. 
She repeated that she would have been in a better position had she had the full policy in 
front of her when she had to make decisions. She said she requested it as soon as she 
realised it hadnt been sent, but it arrived too late to be of any benefit  the day after the 
pony was put to sleep. She speculated that had the policy been clear to her, she might have 
sought further veterinary clarification and achieved consent to follow her vets advice. 
As our investigator didnt change her opinion about the case, it has been referred to me for 
consideration. 
Policy terms:
SECTION 1  DEATH, THEFT OR STRAYING.
Immediate Humane Grounds Your Horse sustains an Injury or manifests an Illness or 
Condition that is so severe as to warrant immediate destruction to relieve incurable and 
excessive pain and that no other options for Treatment are available at that time. (source 
BEVA Guidelines For The Destruction Of Horses Under All Risks Mortality Insurance Policy).Cover  death
If Your Horse dies or is put to sleep by a Vet on Immediate Humane Grounds during the 
Policy Term as a result of an Injury, Illness of Condition; settlement is assessed on the sum 
insured or Markey Value whichever is less, subject to cover being in force and the relevant 
premiums having been received by Us.
Exclusions
1. Euthanasia performed without Our permission unless Your Vet confirms it was on 
Immediate Humane Grounds.

8. Death where Your Vet or Our Consultant Vet considers Your Horses Injury, Illness or 
Condition was able to be Treated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that ELI made a mistake in not including the policy wording with the 
documentation it sent to Mrs M when she took out the policy. Mrs M has said she didnt 
understand the policy cover sufficiently because ELI didnt include the policy wording with 
the information she was sent about the policy. I can understand that this may have been the 
case if shed read the documents without any assistance. However, ELI did suggest in the 
letter with the documentation she did receive that if she wasnt sure about anything, she 
should call it. Has she done so, I am satisfied she would have been sent the missing policy 
wording at that time, as happened in December 2019 when she asked for it. I note that Mrs 
M doesnt believe ELI posted the information to her when she asked for it as it took eight 
calendar days to reach her. If that is the case, that is unfortunate, but I would point out that 
the documentation was posted to her a couple of weeks before Christmas, when postal 
delays are not uncommon, so I dont think there is evidence to indicate ELI didnt do what it 
said it did.
Mrs M believes the conditions associated with the death benefit were restrictive and unfair. 
I believe it would also be appropriate to highlight that the guidelines ELI, and other insurers, 
rely on to determine whether a horse needs to be immediately euthanised are not something 
the insurance industry has created. Rather the guidelines were produced by the BEVA. 
Insurers have adopted the guideline in relation to death claims as it allows them to pay the 
claims it is willing to  those where the horse had to be destroyed for medical reasons, rather 
than for other reasons, such as where a horse would no longer be fit to be used for the 
owners purposes. 
Whilst Mrs M may not have appreciated what these guidelines meant in her circumstances, 
both her own vet and the treating vet at the hospital would have understood what they 
meant. Indeed, the treating vet explained to Mrs M on two occasions before the pony was 
euthanised that doing so, when there were viable treatment options available, would mean a 
death claim wouldnt be paid. Although Mrs Ms vet may not have believed the treatment 
would be successful, in that the pony wouldnt be in the condition it was before the lameness 
manifested itself, it clearly didnt consider the euthanasia fulfilled the immediate requirement 
under BEVA guidelines and the policy conditions. I say this as immediate was crossed out 
by the vet on the claim form and not immediate was handwritten below.
Where an error has been made on the part of an insurer, we consider what position the 
policyholder would most likely have been in, had that error not been made. In this case, the 
error was Mrs M not being provided with the policy wording when it was set up, so she wasnt aware of the condition that needed to be complied with, when she made the decision 
to euthanise the pony. However, I think she was aware of the requirements under the policy. 
The vet hospital highlighted that where there was a viable treatment option, a death claim 
wouldnt be paid by the insurer. Mrs M was told this before she made the decision to 
euthanise and it was highlighted again after the decision was made, but before treatment. 
I know that Mrs M thinks that had she understood the requirements under the policy better, 
she could have discussed the matter further with the insurer and she believes that she might 
have persuaded it to give permission for the pony to be put to sleep. I am not persuaded that 
is the case. Although Mrs Ms own vet didnt think treatment would be successful, the vet 
hospital (which would have been considered the treating vet) considered there was a viable 
course of treatment. I think it extremely unlikely that where a treating vet has such an opinion 
that the insurer would agree to euthanasia and pay a subsequent death claim.
Mrs M is also concerned that ELI wouldnt give her more information and voice an opinion 
about a potential claim. I can understand why Mrs M would have liked it to do so, but an 
insurer doesnt need to do so and most chose not to because they dont want to be seen to 
be influencing a policyholders decision about what to do. Such behaviour could be seen to 
be inappropriate. In addition, the members of staff at the insurer wouldnt have the same 
clinical knowledge about the individual situation or the same training as the treating vet, so it 
would be more appropriate for any such discussions about the best course of action to be 
had with the vet. I dont believe Mrs Ms health situation should reasonably have changed 
how ELI dealt with her.
Mrs M acknowledged to our investigator that even had she known the detail of the conditions 
linked to the death cover, it wouldnt have changed the decision she made. Given my 
conclusions above, I am unable to uphold this complaint as I dont believe Mrs M having the 
policy wording before she made the decision to have the pony put to sleep would have 
changed the outcome of the claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
10 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman