DRN-2057204
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected her claim under Section 
75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of an unsuitable training course.
What happened
 In May 2018 Mrs T was called by a representative working for a company I will call X. One 
of her colleagues was studying for an NVQ and had given X Mrs Ts contact details. She 
says she explained her current work role and asked some questions. The representative 
recommended a NVQ level 4 course which he said was relevant to her work. 
She received an email with an agreement and after seeking permission from her employer 
she signed up. The course cost £799 and was funded by a fixed loan sum agreement. Mrs T 
says she was progressing to the third assessment when she received a phone call from X 
and asked why her examples were limited.  She explained what she did and she was told he 
course wasnt suitable for her and it was cancelled.  
She received no further contact from X and was unable to log on to the system. She had 
limited success in trying to speak to anyone at X. She says she asked for a recording of her 
initial conversation with the representative and X agreed to provide it but failed to do so. 
Omni says Mrs T was told what the course required course and she didnt make it clear that 
her role didnt provide the opportunities to complete the necessary assignments. It supplied 
emails between X and Mrs T. One of these, dated 22 May, after the course had been 
purchased set out the basic criteria Mrs T would have to satisfy in order to be able to 
undertake the course. 
Mrs T replied to the email giving an outline description of her job which didnt address the 
key requirement. Omni also says that Mrs T sought to move to a level 5 NVQ in July 2018 
but refused to pay the fee of £200. In April 2019 X informed her she couldnt complete the 
course as she was not in a position to complete the required work assignments. It responded 
to her request for a refund by saying her role had changed so the course was no longer 
suitable.
Mrs T brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She sought further information from both 
parties and while much was provided the call recording of the sale wasnt made available.
She said that her view depended on whether the course had been misrepresented to Mrs T. 
In that regard she noted the email from X which stated: Please be advised, the Level 4 
requires you to be working with Adults in a senior job role. Mrs T had set out her role in her 
response which explained that she was team leader. She didnt expand greatly on that and 
no questions were raised. Mrs T had explained that she hadnt picked up on the question 
and she simply described the main elements of her role.
Mrs T has said that her initial discussion with Xs representative she had explained the 
nature of her work and our investigator didnt believe correspondence sent after Mrs T had 
signed up was sufficient to have ensured Mrs T met the key requirements.  
She also considered whether it was fair of X to have cancelled the course. She noted the 
terms and conditions and couldnt see where it gave X the right to end the contract (where 
the course isnt suitable) and not provide a refund or partial refund for the unused portion of 
the service provided. The cancellation terms say:
6.7.2. In the event of a cancellation of a Course by Us, We will use reasonable endeavours 
to inform You as soon as possible of the cancellation, were it is practicable to do so. All 
course prices paid will be reimbursed in full, but We are not obliged to reimburse any other 
costs which have been incurred by You. She concluded that Mrs T should get a full refund.
Omni didnt agree and said our investigator had given undue weight to Mrs Ts testimony. X 
denied Mrs T had given a clear picture of her role at work and in any event, it was clear from 
the material on its website that the course wasnt suitable for her. It says when Mrs T put her 
job details in writing she didnt record the caring element of her role. 
It also referenced the email sent to Mrs T after she enrolled setting out the requirement that 
she work with adults. It also noted Mrs T was willing to continue with the course after 
deciding not to change to a level 5 one. It thought by this point she must have been aware of 
the key requirement. 
Finally, it said that X wasnt liable to refund the cost when it terminated her course. It 
explained that the terms and conditions stated: If You miss/cancel/fail to complete the 
required work as scheduled by the assessment centre/IQA/Assessor or fall into arrears on a 
payment plan, We reserve the right to cancel the Course and no refund will be made to 
You.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is no suggestion that the chain is broken and so I have to consider if there has been 
either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
I believe the key to this complaint is what was said during the initial call. I note Omni says 
this was initiated by Mrs T, but she says she was called by X. I havent noted any 
documentary evidence about who initiated the call and while it is not of great significance, I 
am inclined to believe Mrs Ts version.
It is regrettable we dont have a recording, nor do we have any contemporaneous notes from 
X. I also note that X has not submitted any testimony from its sales representative. That leaves me with only Mrs Ts version of what happened. Having read her testimony which has 
been consistent I find it credible. In the circumstances I cannot see why Mrs T would have 
misled the representative. She had nothing to gain by spending time on a course which she 
would be unable to complete.
The whole process seems to have been fairly swift having been conducted by phone and I 
have seen nothing to show that all the relevant material was made available to her before 
she signed up. I appreciate various documents were sent to her after the event, but at the 
point she made her decision I consider she was reliant on what she was told by the sales 
representative. 
As for that documentation Omni has placed significant weight on one sentence in an email. 
This requires the trainee to be working with adults. I gather Mrs T is working with adults, but I 
think what the email should have made clear is that she was required to be caring for adults. 
I appreciate the context can infer that it was intended to convey the requirement was caring 
for adults, but nonetheless I dont believe that single sentence is enough to allow me to 
accept the argument put forward by Omni.
I am satisfied that Mrs T believed she was able to complete the course and while she 
decided not to move the level 5 course because of the cost I have seen nothing that shows 
she had any knowledge that the work she had put in by that point would not lead to a 
qualification. Indeed, it is clear from the email exchanges that she was taken by surprise 
when her course was cancelled. It seems this wasnt handled with much tact and she was 
simply told she could no longer continue.
Finally, I am not persuaded that it can be said Mrs T missed, cancelled or failed to complete 
the required work. She was told that her role at work meant she couldnt complete the 
course. I have seen nothing to show that X sought to find an accommodation that would 
allow her to finish the course. It simply ended the course.
Putting things right
On balance I consider I should uphold this complaint and Omni should cancel the 
agreement.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund the payments already made
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on the refunded amounts from the date paid until she 
gets them back. *
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file
* Omni Capital may be required to deduct basic rate tax. Mrs T should speak to HMRC if she 
has any questions.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman