DRN-2539880
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Health UK Limited has unfairly classified his condition as chronic.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so I have only provided a brief 
summary of what happened below.
Mr D had access to group private medical insurance through his former employer. He made 
a successful claim on that policy in relation to his mental health, and went on to have 
psychologist and psychiatric appointments approved by Aviva. However, in 2019, Aviva said 
it wouldnt authorise any further appointments because it considered Mr Ds mental health 
condition had become chronic.  
Mr D complained. He said his condition wasnt chronic, that available medical evidence 
supported his position, and Aviva had provided a poor service during its handling of his 
claim. But Aviva maintained its position, so Mr D referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. He said the available medical evidence 
didnt suggest that Mr Ds condition was currently chronic. Instead, he said it suggested that 
Mr D had a history of adverse reactions to medication, and had needed more time to 
stabilise on the medication hed recently been prescribed before his condition could be 
considered to have left the acute phase. 
Our investigator also said that Aviva had made a number of mistakes during its involvement 
with Mr Ds claim. And that it had caused him some distress during what was already a 
difficult time. So, he recommended Aviva reimburse Mr D for the psychiatric appointment 
hed gone on to self-fund after Aviva had refused further cover. And he also recommended it 
paid £500 compensation, to reflect the impact its mistakes had on Mr D.
Neither side agreed. Aviva said it had classified Mr Ds condition as chronic in line with the 
terms of the policy. Mr D said his lack of treatment in late 2019 and early 2020 had directly 
affected his subsequent situation at work, which had ended in redundancy. He also said 
Aviva should still be paying for further appointments, and the compensation recommended 
did not go far enough to reflect the impact of Avivas actions. 
So, as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have set out their positions at length and I would like to thank them for taking the 
time to do so. I acknowledge the strength of feeling about what has happened, but I do want 
to highlight that my findings will only focus on those matters I consider central to the 
outcome of this complaint. That means I will not address every single argument that has 
been raised, and I trust that wont be taken as a matter of discourtesy. 
The policy terms define a chronic condition as follows:
A disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics: - 
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups, and / or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely 
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
And in relation to the metal health cover provided, the terms set out:
We provide benefit for acute mental health conditions. This means we will pay for 
treatment which aims to lead to your full recovery. 
But:
We do not cover
treatment that is given solely to alleviate symptoms, or
chronic psychiatric conditions. 
We consider a psychiatric condition to be chronic if:
it meets the definition of a chronic condition, or
we have paid for your treatment for that condition or a related psychiatric condition 
during three separate one-year periods of cover. This will apply to acute flare-ups of 
a chronic condition, it will also apply if the treatment was not in consecutive one-year 
periods of cover. 
Aviva says Mr Ds mental health condition had become chronic because it required ongoing 
or long-term monitoring, and needed ongoing or long-term control of symptoms.
Looking at the available evidence in this case, at the time Aviva reached this decision Mr Ds 
condition had fluctuated, hed attempted returns to work, and hed been prescribed a number 
of different medications to try  most of which he had reacted badly to. 
This negative reaction to previous medication is referred to in a psychiatric report of May 
2019. The report sets out that Mr D had unsuccessfully tried a number of medications which 
had caused him to experience adverse side effects and which he could not tolerate. The 
report also sets out that sensitivity to medication may be a problem for Mr D.
This is also referred to in another psychiatric report of October 2019, which reiterates Mr D 
was clearly sensitive to SSRI medication. The report sets out that there had been in 
improvement in Mr Ds mental health and a phased return to work had been agreed. But also 
explains the psychiatrist wanted to see Mr D three to four times over the coming six to nine 
months, because they remained concerned about his mental state and his response to 
medication. 
As I think our investigator rightly explained, the available evidence in this complaint does 
suggest that the treatment proposed for Mr Ds mental health condition was done so in view 
of it needing time to stabilise on recently prescribed medication. The treatment proposed 
also related to a set period of time, given the new medication Mr K had recently started. And it suggested that the main thing halting Mr Ds improvement had been his previous reactions 
to medication. 
So, I cant fairly conclude that the available medical evidence at the point Aviva categorised 
Mr Ds condition as chronic did demonstrate that his condition met the chronic definition cited 
above. I dont think the evidence implied that Mr Ds treatment was long-term or ongoing 
monitoring. Nor do I think it implied that Mr D would require ongoing or long-term control or 
relief of his symptoms either. And so, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that it was fair or reasonable of Aviva to conclude that Mr Ds condition was 
chronic when it did. 
I acknowledge the arguments that have been presented in relation to whether or not Mr Ds 
treatment could have been considered an acute episode of a chronic condition. But given 
that I have already found it was not fair of Aviva to categorise Mr Ds condition as chronic 
when it did, I will not address this point any further here. 
Mr D has told this service that he had his last approved psychiatric and psychologist 
appointments in November 2019. And in the six to nine month window that the psychiatrist 
had recommend Mr D been seen again (so up until July 2020), Mr D appears to have self-
funded one appointment; with his psychiatrist in January 2020 at a personal cost to him of 
£190. 
Given the findings reached above, I also think it right that Aviva reimburse Mr D for that 
expense. I am however aware that Mr D has said the lack of treatment that followed Avivas 
decision directly impacted the situation he ended up finding himself in at work; where he was 
initially furloughed and then made redundant. 
I am sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Mr D found himself in and understand 
why he may perceive the lack of funded treatment to have had a direct impact on his work. 
But there is no contemporaneous medical evidence in this complaint to corroborate that 
Avivas lack of cover directly led to Mr Ks subsequent unemployment. And I must keep in 
mind that Aviva was not responsible for the actual mental health illness that Mr D had. Nor 
was it responsible for the decisions that Mr Ds former employer made around his role. 
Avivas responsibility in this case related to the handling of Mr Ds claim, and the 
authorisation of any eligible treatment under the group policy. I have already set out why I 
dont think Aviva should have categorised Mr Ds condition as chronic when it did, and that it 
should reimburse the cost of the appointment he self-funded in the six to nine months that 
followed the October 2019 report. However, I do accept that Mr D did not have the full 
benefit of the additional treatment that his psychiatrist had recommended. And I can see that 
had cause Mr D both concern, upset, frustration and disappointment.
So I too think that Aviva need to compensate Mr D for the impact this had. 
Mr D has set out in detail the concerns he has about the service Aviva provided. I wont 
recite each incident of concern here, but I agree that there were times when Aviva didnt 
provide the level of service that Mr D should have reasonably expected. 
For example, Aviva provided Mr D with incorrect information. It also provided him with 
inconsistent information. And it didnt relay information to him when it could have done so. 
The above instances caused Mr D both frustration, and further upset. And Aviva should 
compensate Mr D for the impact this had. 
However, I cant agree that Aviva consistently provided a poor level of service. For example it wasnt unreasonable of it to seek medical evidence to support Mr Ds ongoing claim; the 
psychiatric reports it wanted to see. And it wasnt unreasonable of it to think that sending 
Mr D a gift was appropriate given the concerns hed previously relayed to it. Like our 
investigator, I too accept Aviva likely misjudged just how strongly Mr D felt about matters 
when it sent that gift. But I dont think the gesture of a gift was in itself inappropriate.
Putting things right
I have already explained that I think Aviva should reimburse Mr D for the appointment he 
self-funded and compensate him for the impact its actions had on him. This compensation is 
not designed to be a punitive measure. It is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection 
of the impact Avivas mistakes had on Mr K. So any award I make will need to fairly reflect 
that.
Whilst I acknowledge the wider implications Mr D says Avivas actions had on him, I have 
already explained why I cannot fairly attribute his loss of work directly to Avivas actions. I do 
however accept that Mr D didnt have the benefit of further approved treatment. And that he 
didnt always receive the level of service that he should have reasonably expected from 
Aviva either. So, for these reasons, and the findings I have set out above, I think £500 is a 
fair and proportionate way of reflecting the impact that Avivas actions had on Mr D.  
To put things right, Aviva should:
Reimburse Mr D for the psychiatric appointment he self-funded in January 2020.
Pay Mr D £500 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Health UK Limited should put things 
right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman