DRN-2253875
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Santander UK Plc led her to believe that the mortgage she took had a 
free survey that was for her benefit. But when she discovered that the property she had 
bought suffered with damp, she found out that a basic valuation for lending purposes had 
been carried out. Mrs L says if she was given clear information, she would have chosen a 
more in-depth survey.
What happened
Santander gave Mrs L mortgage advice when she was buying her home. Mrs L says that 
she was told with this mortgage you get a free survey. She says she took this to mean that 
she would get a survey for her benefit. But only a basic valuation was carried out  and that 
didnt identify that the property she bought suffered with damp. Mrs L says she would have 
instructed a more detailed survey had Santander set out the correct position. But she has 
had to meet the significant costs of getting the property repaired and is worried about the 
impact of the damp on her health. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs L didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wasnt responsible for carrying out the valuation. So I cant make any findings on 
whether the surveyor was negligent in carrying out the valuation. In any case, Mrs L says 
that it was Santander that made a mistake in giving her misleading information about the 
free survey. I need to decide, based on the evidence available to me, whether it is likely 
that Santander gave Mrs L clear, fair and not misleading information about the valuation.
Ive reviewed everything very carefully. I accept that Santander has no specific obligation to 
advise Mrs L about which valuation to take. But it does have an overriding obligation to 
communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. It hasnt made a very good case 
that it did so before the valuation was instructed. It has placed too much weight on the 
information contained in the straightforward guide to your mortgage. I understand this 
leaflet is given before the interview and the borrower is then asked if theyve understood it or 
have any questions. The guide is 20 pages long and contains a lot of information. Santander 
hasnt made it clear how some borrowers (who may lack financial knowledge) would be 
expected to read and understand all of that information during the interview process.
But Im not going to uphold this complaint. The valuation report was completed on 4 April 
2019. The report says, as is relevant, This report has been prepared for Santander UK plc 
and is headed valuation for mortgage purposes. It goes on to say This information is for 
our guidance in making a lending decision. It is not a detailed statement of the extent and 
cost of any work involved and is not an exhaustive list of defects that there may be in a 
property. Under the heading important it says, This is a valuation for mortgage purposes 
based on a limited inspection which has been made to allow us to assess the property as a 
suitable securityPlease note this valuation is not a building survey or condition report and 
defects which a more detailed inspection should reveal or may not be commented on. 
This was an important document. If as Mrs L says she understood it to be a full survey, it 
was reasonable to expect her to read it very carefully before deciding whether to proceed 
with the purchase. If she had done so, I dont see how she could reasonably have come 
away with the impression that a full survey had been carried out or that there were no other 
options available to her. The valuation report sets out its purpose and limitations clearly and 
prominently. So Mrs L either proceeded on that basis or did not read the report. In either 
case, I cant see how it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for Mrs Ls decision to 
buy the property or the defects she later discovered. I note there was some time between 
the valuation report and Mrs L completing her purchase. So there was sufficient time for her 
to explore her options.
My final decision
My final decision is that I donlt uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman