DRN-3117822
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1990. Mrs R says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Allianz made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Allianz has provided a copy of Mrs Rs high-street store 
card application from the time. Looking at this I can see Mrs R ticked a box to take out 
PPI  a separate section of the form titled Payment Protection. If Mrs R didnt want PPI 
she could have left the box unticked.
So taking everything into account I think Mrs R chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure. 
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs R enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs R  for example she 
was eligible of the cover and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits 
to the cover. While Mrs R said she had a couple of medical conditions before the time of 
the sale, the things she told us about are common childhood diseases  they cannot 
reasonably be described as existing medical conditions. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems  
so the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what Mrs R reasonably thought she was buying from 
the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs R would have declined the cover had Allianz done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Allianz should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Allianz doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman