DRN-2802500
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Soteria Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled her car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020, Miss B was involved in an accident where the other driver collided into her 
vehicle and failed to stop. Following this, she called Soteria to make a claim under her car 
insurance policy.
Soteria identified Miss B had two previous claims in the last five years  in October 2016 and 
October 2017. They said they wouldnt have offered cover if they had been aware of this. So, 
they decided to void the policy and gave Miss B a refund of the policy premiums.
Miss B was unhappy with this and referred her complaint to our service. She explained that 
she didnt disclose the two accidents as she thought the first accident was over five years 
from when she took out the policy. And she said she couldnt recall the second accident as it 
was minor and insignificant. She also didnt know the outcome of the claim.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought Miss B shouldve provided correct 
information to Soteria about the two previous accidents. She said Soteria wouldnt have 
insured Miss B had they known about the two accidents. So, she thought they acted fairly in 
voiding the policy and providing a refund of the premiums paid.
Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she 
said that she genuinely believed the accidents were more than five years ago. She feels 
Soteria shouldve checked her accident history when she took out the policy rather than 
when she made a claim. She has also told us about how upsetting and distressing this has 
been for her and her family.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive explained why below as I know this will be disappointing to Miss B, particularly 
since the accident has not only impacted her financially but its also affected the physical and 
mental wellbeing of her and her son. 
The relevant law that applies to this complaint is Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA). This requires customers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that 
of a reasonable consumer.
And if a customer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation.
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show they would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all, if the customer hadnt made the misrepresentation. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were.
When Miss B applied for the policy through a comparison website, she was asked  In the 
last five years, have you had or caused any accidents, claims or damage involving any 
motor vehicle (including cars, motorbikes and/or vans), even if no claim was made and 
regardless of blame?
I think the question asked was clear and not misleading. Miss B answered No. It isnt 
disputed that Miss B had two accidents in the five years prior to when she took out the policy 
in June 2020.
Ive thought about the reasons Miss B has provided for not disclosing them. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded Miss B took reasonable care in answering this question. 
I say this because, Miss B recalled the details of both incidents when she was making a 
claim with Soteria. She said she didnt tell them about the first claim as she thought it took 
place more than five years ago. But since Miss B wasnt certain, its reasonable to expect 
her to have checked before answering this question. 
And in relation to the second incident, Miss B said she didnt mention it as she felt it was 
minor and insignificant. But the question she was asked was about any accident, claim or 
damage regardless of blame. So, I think she reasonably shouldve made Soteria aware, 
even if she thought it wasnt her fault and the incident was minor and insignificant.
I appreciate Miss B feels Soteria shouldve checked her accident history before providing her 
the insurance, but there isnt a requirement for Soteria to do so. Theyre entitled to rely on 
the information she provided.
As Ive explained, Miss B, as the policy holder, is responsible both when taking out a policy 
and at renewal to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Miss B was made aware of this within the policy documents sent to her on 27 June 2020. 
Within the Statement of Insurance, its explained: 
Please read the following information carefully. Please advise us 
immediatelyshould any of the information be incorrect or missing Failure to 
disclose correct and complete information to the best of your knowledge and belief 
may result in increased premiums, refusal of claim or not being fully paid, your policy 
being cancelled or being made null and void and treated as if it never existed.
It also set out the answer Miss B gave to the question on previous claims:
Details of all claims, accidents, thefts or losses regardless if blame in the last 5 
years
None disclosedSo, I think Miss B had a further opportunity to rectify the inaccurate information she provided. 
I dont doubt Miss B when she says she genuinely didnt think she had to disclose her two 
previous accidents. But Im afraid she has still made a misrepresentation as she didnt take 
reasonable care to answer questions correctly.
Ive considered if Soteria wouldve still entered into the contract, or if they wouldve only 
done so on different terms. Having looked at Soterias underwriting criteria, Im satisfied they 
wouldnt have offered Miss B cover if they had been correctly informed about her previous 
two accidents. 
As such, Im satisfied the misrepresentation here is a qualifying misrepresentation as 
described in CIDRA.
I think Soteria have been reasonable to treat Miss Bs misrepresentation as careless. This is 
because Miss B didnt intend to mislead Soteria when providing information about her 
accident history.
I know Miss B has been left in a difficult position. But in situations like this, where the insurer 
wouldnt have offered the policy if there hadnt been a qualifying misrepresentation, then 
under CIDRA, the remedy available to the insurer is to void the policy and refund the 
premium. Soteria have done exactly that  so I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman