DRN-3489417
Complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a EIS portfolio investment he made with Octopus Investments 
Limited (Octopus). The investment made a significant loss and he says that loss was 
magnified by the gearing involved with the investment (i.e. the borrowing taken by the 
companies the portfolio invested in).
His complaint, in summary is:
 Octopus did not disclose any intention to gear the companies in which it invested in 
the systematic and extensive way it did.
 Octopus did not disclose the risk of gearing at any level.
 Octopus invested his money in investee companies which were highly geared without 
his authority.
Mr H says that if he had known of the level of gearing he would not have invested in the EIS 
portfolio. 
Background
Mr H was sent a letter and associated documents by his independent financial advisor (IFA) 
on 9 June 2015. This correspondence detailed advice to roll over a previous EIS investment 
with Octopus to a new EIS investment with Octopus, in order to maximise tax benefits. 
The correspondence included:  
 Octopus EIS brochure
 Octopus EIS Terms and Conditions
 Octopus investment transfer form 
 The IFAs consent form
 The IFAs advice report  this had a page detailing general EIS risks and an 
appendix providing technical detail on EIS (both written by the IFA) attached. 
The IFA told Mr H he should carefully consider all the documents. Mr H accepted the IFAs 
advice and the existing investment was subsequently rolled over. However, the new 
investment did not perform well  Mr H suffered significant losses.  
Mr H made his complaint  through a representative - in December 2020. A detailed 
response sent to Mr H by Octopus in February 2021. It did not uphold the complaint, and 
provided a response to Mr Hs complaint points alongside general commentary on the 
performance of the investment. In terms of Mr Hs points of complaint Octopus said, in 
summary:
In addition to its product brochures it also made adviser specific literature available, 
outlining further information on its EIS products and related considerations. And it 
provided detailed information to widely used industry publications, which advisers 
could access in the event they wanted to obtain further details during their pre-
investment due diligence.
The product brochure highlighted the key risks of investment throughout. 
Its literature was clear, fair and not misleading. It was therefore clearly understood by 
the IFA at the pre-investment recommendation stage, from both its literature and 
third-party reports, that capital preservation was the targeted objective and not a 
guarantee. And it was clearly understood the investment was a high risk investment.
It was not required to provide the minutiae of the investments it would be making. It 
was instead required to explain the investment was a discretionary managed 
investment service. That this was a higher risk investment where capital and returns 
were not of a guaranteed nature. And that while EIS qualification was also being 
targeted, again there was no guarantee this objective would be realised either.
It was the IFAs responsibility to conduct appropriate due diligence in respect of the 
investment, and make Mr H fully aware of all of the associated key risks and details. 
It was also the IFA's responsibility (and not Octopus') to determine which, if any, of 
the investments Octopus offered was suitable.
As a discretionary investment manager, it selects investments at its discretion on 
behalf of investors, as explained in the agreement investors accept when applying. At 
its discretion, investments are allocated to portfolios based on their attributes closely 
fitting the objectives of the product as set out in the product brochure and other 
supporting literature.
Debt financing is common for projects of this nature where EIS funding alone is 
insufficient due to the limits set by the UK Government. And debt financing is a 
natural and often necessary activity for actively trading companies to raise capital.
Debt financing has been utilised for the significant majority of its renewable energy 
based EIS, including previous tranches into which Mr H had invested
The use of debt financing was something it made clear was being considered at the 
pre-investment stage to enable larger scale opportunities to be considered. In 
addition, it relayed details of the investment propositions, including the perceived 
need for debt financing to industry reports. 
Its literature explained in clear terms, in several instances, that debt financing could 
be utilised where it considered it suitable. And, as the sources of financing could be 
linked to other investments managed by Octopus, it ensured that not only notification 
of the use of debt financing was communicated, but that the potential conflict was 
also.
Where a request for additional information was received at the pre-investment phase, 
including requests for details about potential debt funding (or any other matter 
relating to investment propositions we were considering for inclusion), this was 
something it provided.
Mr H was not satisfied with this response, and his representative referred his complaint to 
us. When doing so he provided some comments on Octopus response to the complaint, which I have considered. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. He said, in 
summary:
 Octopus drew attention to gearing in the key risks section of its product brochure.
 The Terms and Conditions also confirm that debt financing is a possibility. 
 It was down to Mr Hs financial advisor to go into any further details as to how it could 
affect his investment.
 There is no information to suggest that Octopus knew prior to the investment how 
much debt financing would be used. 
 It was however possible debt financing would be used to help with funding. It was a 
method under consideration to raise capital. 
 The documents also didnt put a limit on how much debt financing could or would be 
used.
 Overall, he did not think the brochure was misleading.
 Octopus did inform all potential investors that the EIS was high risk. It was for Mr Hs 
financial advisor to advise Mr H if the risk associated was suitable for his objectives 
and circumstances. 
 Octopus had the right to manage the portfolio at its sole discretion. The management 
authority granted to Octopus is covered in the Terms and Conditions. These clearly 
state that Octopus would have sole discretion, without the need to run its decisions 
past investors or advisers. 
Mr H did not accept this view. His representative made further submissions on his behalf. He 
said, in summary:
The view does not take account of, or does not give sufficient weight to, the following 
important factors:
oOctopus duties under the FCA Principles 
oOctopus responsibilities as the product provider under The Responsibilities of 
Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD)
oOctopus special knowledge of gearing within EIS
oThe information Octopus should have given to Mr H and his IFA, but did not. 
oOctopus lack of authority to buy highly geared investments for the portfolio 
Mr H invested in 
Its clear Octopus literature was directed at potential investors, not at advisors, and 
the scope of Octopus regulatory obligations was therefore at its widest. 
Under the RPPD Octopus was required to ensure information was sufficient, 
appropriate and comprehensible in substance and form, including whether it will enable distributors to understand it enough to give suitable advice and to extract any 
relevant information and communicate it to the end consumer. 
Mr H and the IFA had the reasonable expectation that Octopus literature gave all the 
information that was needed to understand the risks. 
As per the relevant Conduct of Business (COBS) rules, it was reasonable for the IFA 
to rely on the information provided to it by Octopus. 
Neither Mr H nor his IFA were aware of the high level of gearing and it is not 
accepted that a high level of gearing is common practice. 
Octopus had previously used high level of gearing, and failed to disclose it. Octopus 
plans for investment of the portfolio subject to complaint would also likely have been 
well advanced by the time it began promoting it. 
We should ask Octopus about the previous levels of gearing used and material 
internal documents on the plans for the investment of the portfolio subject to 
complaint. 
Octopus brochure does not do anywhere near enough to disclose the gearing risks 
associated with the portfolio. 
Octopus did not have absolute discretion to buy highly geared investments for the 
portfolio. 
In managing investments and in taking investment decisions Octopus was subject to 
the FCA rules and guidance on suitability applying at the time. This meant Octopus 
had to ensure any decision to trade was suitable for its client. 
Octopus said it would select and manage investments which correspond with the 
objectives and principles of the portfolio set out in the brochure. But the high level of 
gearing in the companies it invested in was not disclosed, so Octopus cannot claim 
Mr Hs investment objectives included investing in highly geared companies. 
The prime objective, after qualifying for EIS, was capital preservation. Investing in 
highly geared companies was not consistent with this. 
As the view was not accepted, the complaint has been referred to me for consideration.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr Hs representative has made detailed submissions and is clearly 
strongly of the view Octopus should compensate Mr H for the poor performance of his 
investment. But I am not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. 
It does not appear to be disputed the portfolio was understood to be a high risk investment 
and that this  as general point - was made clear by Octopus. What is disputed is whether all 
the specific risk factors associated with the investment were disclosed by Octopus  and the 
focus in particular is on the use of gearing or debt financing. And there is a further point 
about the extent of the discretionary mandate given to Octopus. Turning to the first point - about the use of gearing or debt financing - I agree Octopus 
brochure addressed the potential investor directly. But, in this case, Mr H was not a direct 
investor. He was being advised by his IFA, which sent him Octopus brochure, alongside 
other information, which included a personal recommendation of the investments suitability 
for Mr H, and the IFAs own assessment of the risks and features of EIS products  both set 
out in the IFAs advice report, which was addressed to Mr H personally. So Mr H was not 
relying exclusively on Octopus brochure and was following a personal recommendation 
which had been set to him by the IFA  which had reviewed Octopus product brochure 
before making that recommendation. 
I note the only reference to debt financing in the risk factors section of Octopus brochure 
was in the context of conflicts of interest. But, as the investigator noted, that conflict of 
interest section does refer specifically to debt financing, and there are references to debt 
financing elsewhere in the brochure. So I do not think there is sufficient evidence to show 
Octopus led Mr H or his advisor to believe there would not be any gearing, or that gearing 
would be limited to a particular level. Nor do I think there is sufficient evidence to show Mr H 
or the IFA were of that understanding at the time. 
In my view, if the brochure was considered in its entirety, it ought to have been clear that the 
use of gearing was at least a possibility, even if the extent to which it was to be used or how 
it was to be used was not disclosed. I also think it is reasonable to say a competent advisor 
should have been aware, generally, that investments of this type may involve the companies 
in which they invested using debt financing. In any event, I note the advice report repeated 
the reference to debt financing made under the conflicts of interest section of the risk factors 
set out in Octopus brochure: 
Conflicts of interest: The companies in which Octopus EIS invests may also receive funding
from other sources managed by Octopus Investments.
Which shows the IFA was aware the companies in which Octopus invested may not be 
funded exclusively by the investments of investors in Octopus portfolios. So the IFA does not 
appear to have relied on what the brochure said to conclude that there was no gearing. 
Rather, the IFA specifically highlighted to Mr H that funding could potentially come from 
other sources than portfolio investors in its advice report, but it does not appear to have 
explored that point further. 
It was for the IFA to explore what risks Mr H was willing and able to accept and for Mr H to 
ensure, during that exploration, that his objectives were clearly relayed to the IFA. So if Mr H 
did not want to accept  or could not take - the risk of investment in something that involved 
gearing, or did not want to accept  or could not take  the risk associated with an 
investment which used gearing beyond a particular level, that was something that should 
have been explored with Mr H and considered by the IFA before the investment was 
recommended to him. And it would then have been for the IFA to ensure it had enough 
information to assess the suitability of the investment for Mr H. 
I agree that the IFA could reasonably rely on information provided to it by Octopus, and note 
the COBS rules relating to this. But, in this instance, as noted above, it does not seem to be 
the case the IFA relied on Octopus brochure to conclude there would be no gearing. It 
instead noted the reference to funding potentially coming from other sources than portfolio 
investors but does not appear to have then sought further detail about this. And I have not 
seen sufficient evidence to show that further information about gearing would not have been 
provided by Octopus if had been requested by the IFA or Mr H at the time. 
There is also, in my view, insufficient evidence to show further detail in the brochure about 
gearing would have changed the course of things, in any event. Although the focus now is on gearing, there is no evidence to show this was a particular point of concern at the time  
as noted above, the IFA repeated the reference to funding potentially coming from other 
sources than portfolio investors but does not then appear to have explored this point further. 
And Mr H would have seen this reference in the IFAs advice report and Octopus brochure, 
if he read them at the time  and he does not appear to have explored this point further 
either. So, whilst with the hindsight knowledge of how the investment has performed I can 
understand why Mr H feels he should not have invested, from the evidence available I am 
not persuaded he would have concluded at the time that he should not invest if he was told 
more about gearing, when awareness of the possibility of gearing does not appear to have 
been a concern to Mr H or the IFA at that time. 
In the light of my above findings, I do not think I need to ask Octopus about the previous 
levels of gearing used and material internal documents on the plans for the investment of the 
portfolio in order to fairly decide the complaint. I am satisfied I have enough information to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Turning to the discretionary mandate given to Octopus, I am satisfied a broad mandate to 
make investments was given to Octopus by Mr H and I have not seen sufficient evidence to 
conclude Octopus acted beyond that mandate. 
In its response to Mr Hs complaint Octopus set out in detail the basis on which it selected 
investments for the portfolio. There, is in my view, insufficient evidence to show the 
investments selected were inconsistent with the objective set out in the brochure. As 
mentioned above, Octopus did not say it would not invest in companies which used debt 
financing. And there is no evidence to show the investments it selected were otherwise 
inconsistent with the objectives set out in the brochure. It is clear Octopus thought the 
companies it invested in were ones which met the objectives of EIS qualification and being 
likely to generate a return of capital after a set period  but achieving these objectives was 
never guaranteed. 
If Mr H feels the level of gearing, or the use of gearing generally, made the investment an 
unsuitable one for him, that is something he should take up with the IFA, if he has not 
already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman