DRN-1966937
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S are represented by their son, Mr S1. Mr and Mrs S booked a long-haul trip on 
4 January 2019. Sadly, Mrs Ss sister died and so they decided to put their trip back in order 
to make the funeral arrangements and be with their family. They incurred some charges and 
fees for cancelling their flights and had to rebook new ones. They want UKI to cover the 
shortfall of around £800. 
UKI declined the claim because Mrs Ss sister had been admitted to hospital as an in-patient 
before they booked their trip. So, they said it wasnt covered under the policy terms. Mr S1 
complained to UKI but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and she didnt think that UKI had treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. She listened to a call 
between UKI and Mr S1, before the new flights had been booked. She thought UKI had been 
clear that there was no guarantee the claim had been accepted and noted that Mr S1 hadnt 
explained that his aunt had been admitted to hospital. The investigator also concluded that 
the claim had been declined in line with the policy terms. 
Mr S1 didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He argues that his 
aunt was admitted to hospital for problems with blisters but the cause of death was a 
different issue. He says that the GP notes show that the terminal prognosis wasnt given until 
after Mr and Mrs S had booked. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions cover cancellation for the death of an immediate family 
member. But there is an exclusion which says UKI wont pay for: 
A medical condition of a travelling companion, or (whether travelling or not) either a 
member of your immediate family or a business partner which has resulted in that 
person being a hospital inpatient or being put on a waiting list for hospital treatment 
in the 12 months before the start of this insurance or you booking the journey, 
whichever is later. 
Mr S1s aunt was admitted to hospital on the 28 December 2018 with blisters. So, she was 
being treated as an inpatient from that point in time and therefore this was within the 
12 month period before they booked their trip. 
Mr S1 argues that Mr and Mrs S couldnt have known what was going to happen and he 
says that the GPs medical certificate supports this. The GP said the Mr S1s aunt received a 
poor prognosis on 21 January 2020, which is after Mr and Mrs S booked their trip. 
Ive taken into account the death certificate which lists two causes of death:
 
1 (a) Sepsis
(b) Infected Bullous Pemphigoid 
2 Advanced Dementia
Infected Bullous Pemphigoid refers to fluid filled blisters, which is what Mr S1s aunt was 
admitted to hospital for. Its specifically referred to as a cause of death and sepsis is also a 
common side effect of infection. So, despite the evidence from the GP, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to conclude that the death of Mr S1s aunt was linked to her recent 
hospital admission and that the cancellation of the trip flowed from her recent inpatient stay. 
Mr S1 spoke to UKI before changing their travel arrangements. Im satisfied that they made it 
sufficiently clear to him that he may not be able to recover all the costs if they didnt accept 
the claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but Im not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman