DRN-3310118
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied a default to her credit file after she 
informed it she was ill. She would like it removed.
What happened
Miss M had a bank account with Barclays. In April 2021 she informed it she had been 
diagnosed with an illness and she wanted to discuss a repayment plan for her overdraft. She 
said the operator told her he would write with confirmation of the plan but she didnt receive 
anything. Miss M then spent some time seriously ill in hospital. When she felt better she said 
she called Barclays to ask about the repayment plan. She said she was told the account had 
been closed and the credit reference agency had been informed. When she enquired as to 
why she hadnt received any correspondence about this she said she was told it had gone to 
a completely different address.
Miss M said she had no idea why a different address was on her file. She said she hadnt 
moved nor had she informed Barclays of an alternative address. She brought a complaint 
and she said she immediately corrected the address. She wanted the default removed from 
her credit file as she hadnt been informed of payments due or any payments missed.
In its final response letter Barclays said it had sent a letter informing Miss M of the status of 
her account then sent a termination notice to the address it held on file on 21 September. It 
said as it didnt hear back from her and no arrangements were put in place the account then 
defaulted. It said as it had to report correct information to the credit reference agencies it 
wouldnt be able to remove the default. Barclays went on to say Miss M logged onto its 
mobile banking app on 30 April and changed the address. So, it didnt agree the bank had 
done this on her behalf nor did it have any evidence of any bank error. 
Miss M bought her complaint to this service. She said she hadnt changed the address on 30 
April because she was seriously ill in hospital during the month of April. She said no one else 
had access to her bank account during that time. She said this has severely affected her 
well-being and caused her sleepless nights on top of being extremely ill. She said Barclays 
lack of empathy and understanding has upset her. She also wants to discuss the repayment 
plan quickly before she becomes too ill to engage with Barclays.
Our investigator asked Barclays to contact Miss M regarding a repayment plan while the 
investigation continued. The investigator concluded that Barclays didnt need to take any 
further action regarding the default it had registered on Miss Ms account. Miss M didnt 
agree with this conclusion and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear that Miss M is unwell. I do understand that dealing with banking 
and administrative matters can be difficult at such a challenging time. So, I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss M but I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
Barclays provided its contact notes between it and Miss M over the period from February 
2021. Its noted that on 20 April Miss M called the contact centre and informed it that she 
was ill. I can see that she discussed her current income and financial difficulty. There is no 
mention of Miss Ms illness prior to this date. During this call Barclays said Miss M was put 
through to specialist support in Collections and Recoveries. It said her account was brought 
into Collections on an informal nil payment plan. This plan meant that Barclays would not 
ask for a particular payment into the account and it would not phone or write to a customer 
whilst it's in place. But Barclays said it doesnt mean the account wont close. During the call 
to set up the plan Barclays said its agent did explain after 150 days it would issue a 
termination notice. It said the termination notice would always have been sent after 150 if the 
account was still overdrawn.
Ive seen a copy of the letter confirming that the offer had been received by Barclays. This 
letter is dated 22 April and says:
while we are happy for you to pay back the balance of your account at the rate you 
have offered, unfortunately your offer of payment is not sufficient for your account to 
remain open.
It goes on to say:
you will still receive a notice which will advise you we will be terminating your 
account and demanding full repayment of the outstanding balance. Your account will 
close within the timeframe set out in the notice if you dont take any action to repay 
the outstanding balance.
Barclays said the plan failed on 22 April when a debit of £144 left the account. Ive looked at 
Miss Ms bank statements and I can see a payment of £144 was made on that day which 
increased the overdraft. I can also see a failed direct debit for £45 on the same day. 
Barclays said it did try to call Miss M on the number she confirmed was hers when the plan 
was set up, but it couldnt reach her. It provided us with a copy of a letter sent dated 23 April 
regarding the failure of the balance reduction plan.
Miss M said she didnt receive these letters. 
Barclays said Miss M changed the address on 30 April using the Barclays mobile banking 
app. It said while it appreciated Miss M said this change wasnt made by her, its own mobile 
banking system shows Miss Ms mobile banking app was accessed on 30 April from the 
same device identification that was used to make previous payments. Barclays said it could 
see that the type of identification used to login to that device on 30 April used fingerprint 
identification. It provided a screenshot of its mobile banking system screen. I can see that 
Miss Ms address was changed at 2:44 AM on 30 April. I also see that the device ID used is 
the same as used previously. 
Miss M said she didnt do this as she was in hospital very unwell in April. Where evidence is 
disputed, I must make my decision based on what I believe most likely occurred. And Im 
persuaded the digital footprint is correct.  
Im not disputing Miss M when she said she didnt receive the letters, but Im satisfied they 
were sent to the address Barclays had on its system. Per the terms and conditions of the 
account it is Miss Ms responsibility to ensure Barclays had her correct address. As a formal arrangement to pay off the outstanding balance hadnt been agreed or 
implemented as per the letter dated 22 April, Im satisfied Barclays hasnt done anything 
wrong by terminating the account and applying the default.  
Miss M is unhappy about the lack of empathy Barclays showed towards her personal 
circumstances. I do understand this has been a difficult time for Miss M but from what Ive 
seen Barclays has responded sensitively to her circumstances. 
Barclays told this service it has reached out to Miss M, at her and our request, to discuss 
repayment but hasnt been able to make contact and has left messages. It would be sensible 
for Miss M to contact Barclays to discuss a repayment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman