DRN-4073036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as a benefit of a current  
account. On 1 June 2022, they travelled abroad for a wedding. On arrival at their 
destination airport, they discovered that their luggage was missing. They contacted UKI 
about making a claim. UKI told Mr W initially that theyd receive £250 each for essentials 
and £1,500 each for lost luggage. Subsequently, UKI paid £3,000 in settlement of their 
claim. Mr and Mrs W complained about that. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, UKI acknowledged that it had given them 
incorrect information. It offered them compensation of £25 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience, which it later increased to £75.
Mr and Mrs W say that they spent £700 on essentials at their destination and that their 
total claim for lost luggage was £7,600. As UKI paid only £3,000, they are significantly 
out of pocket. They complain that UKI wouldnt reimburse them for all their losses.        
Mr and Mrs W say that if UKI paid them the £500 they offered, it would go some way to 
making up their loss.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that UKI had settled   
Mr and Mrs Ws claim in accordance with the policy terms. The investigator said that UKI 
had given Mr and Mrs W incorrect information but that its payment of compensation of 
£75 was fair and reasonable in this case. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. They said that they were under 
considerable stress, arriving for a wedding with no luggage and having to buy essentials 
to get them through the week. Mr and Mrs W said that they thought UKI would reimburse 
their total claim for lost luggage and essentials, but it paid only £3,000. They said that it 
wasnt acceptable that UKI declined to pay £500 for essentials. 
Mr and Mrs W said that compensation of £75 doesnt reflect the stress they were under 
or the inconvenience following the loss of their luggage and the incorrect information UKI 
gave them. They said that after their initial phone call with UKI, they thought they were 
covered for their essentials and if their luggage wasnt returned to them theyd have a 
new claim for lost luggage. 
Mr and Mrs W asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Part 3  Covers For Your Property
Personal Belongings
This section provides cover for the personal belongings you take on a trip. []
You are covered for
We will pay up to £1,500 for each insured person if your personal belongings are lost, 
stolen or accidently damaged during your trip []
How we settle claims
[]
If we have already paid you for a delay to your personal belongings (under Delayed 
Personal Belongings) and those items are permanently lost by your transport operator we 
will take that amount from the value of your claim.
Delayed Personal Belongings
This section provides cover if your personal belongings are delayed for more than 12 
hours after you have arrived at your destination.
You are covered for
We will pay up to £250 for each insured person to cover the cost of essential toiletries, 
medication and clothing if your personal belongings are temporarily lost for more than 12 
hours after you arrived at your destination. 
[]
If your missing items are not found and you go on to claim for lost personal belongings we 
will take any amount we pay you for Delayed/Personal Belongings from that later claim. []
has the claim been handled fairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding               
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because I think that UKIs payment of compensation of £75 is fair 
and reasonable in this case. Ill explain why. 
Ive set out above the relevant terms and conditions of the policy. Its clear that  
UKI is entitled to deduct any amount paid for delayed personal belongings from a 
subsequent claim for lost personal belongings. And that the maximum UKI will pay 
for lost personal belongings is £1,500 per insured person. I appreciate that the 
value of Mr and Mrs Ws lost luggage was more than the upper limit in the policy, 
but UKI isnt obliged to pay any more than the maximum set out in the terms and 
conditions. Im satisfied that UKI settled Mr and Mrs Ws claim in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions. But thats not the end of the matter.  
Its common ground that during Mr Ws initial call with UKI it told him, incorrectly, 
that their cover was £1,500 each for lost luggage and £250 each for delayed 
luggage. That wasnt in fact the case. 
When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information is true. We look at the effect of the incorrect information on the parties. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs W changed their position on the basis 
of the incorrect information provided by UKI. They were no doubt disappointed to discover the true position and frustrated that they werent going to receive the sum  
to which UKI had referred. 
I appreciate that it was very stressful for Mr and Mrs W to arrive for a wedding 
without their luggage but Im looking at the effect of UKIs error on them. 
Considering everything, I think that UKIs payment of compensation of £75 is fair 
and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of Mr and Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience caused 
by UKIs error in this case. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, but 
there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct UKI to pay them more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman