DRN-3953334
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund the money shes lost when she 
was a victim of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here. Based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to be as follows.
In September 2022, Mrs D received a message through an instant messaging service app 
from someone claiming to be one of her children. They told Mrs D that they had broken their 
phone, so this was a new number. Mrs D replied and asked specifically if it was one of her 
sons by name. To which they replied yes. The person said theyd gotten themselves into a 
situation and needed Mrs Ds help. He said his bank had blocked his account because he 
tried to link it too many times to the new phone. Because of this, he told Mrs D his account 
had been blocked and he needed to pay for something that day and if he didnt it would 
increase.
As Mrs D believed the messages were coming from her son, on 12 September 2022, she 
proceeded to make a payment of £1,350 to the details shed been sent. The person claiming 
to be her son then asked if she could help with another payment. After Mrs D asked her son 
if they could pay her back and they said yes, she went ahead to make a second payment of 
£1,150 to the new account details shed been given. Following this, they then came back to 
Mrs D to say theyd seen they had another payment that needed to be made and could she 
help with this. Mrs D explained she didnt have the amount theyd asked for available but, 
said she had £1,000. Mrs D proceeded to make another payment of £1,000 to the account 
details for the second payee. Mrs D believed her son would be paying her back the following 
day. She sent a message the following morning asking if her son had her money. 
Unfortunately, we now know the messages were coming from a scammer.  
Mrs D then received a call on 13 September 2022 from Metro bank in relation to the 
payments shed recently made. It said the receiving bank had been in contact about the 
payments and they wanted to check they were genuine. Mrs D initially confirmed they were 
but after speaking about the payments, the banks agent informed Mrs D that they thought 
shed been the victim of a scam. At this point, she was told a scam claim would be raised. 
Mrs D told us she attended a Metro bank later that day and reported the scam. 
Metro investigated and said it felt it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and 
that Mrs D could have been more careful and carried out more checks before making the 
payments. So it didnt agree to refund her. Metro was able to recover £1,350 (the initial 
payment Mrs D made) from the bank the money was sent to. Mrs D wasnt satisfied with 
Metros response, so she referred a complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators looked at Mrs Ds complaint. They said Metro couldnt evidence 
which payment purpose Mrs D selected when she made the payments and so it has been 
unable to say which warning she wouldve seen. Our Investigator in her view commented 
that Mrs D thinks she likely wouldve chosen the paying family or friends payment purpose 
 and so, she considered Metros friends or family scam warning. Having done so, she didnt 
think Metro had established Mrs D had ignored an effective warning under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), to which it is a signatory. She also didnt think it 
had established Mrs D didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making 
payments on behalf of her son. So, she felt Metro should refund the remaining money Mrs D 
had lost (not been recovered). 
As Metro disagreed with our Investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro should have refunded the money Mrs D 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Metro should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mrs D 
lost.
The money was taken from the consumers current account. As she has been 
deprived of the use of these funds, Metro should also pay interest on the money it 
should have refunded at 8% simple per year from the date it declined under the CRM 
Code to the date of payment.
Ive carefully considered Metros representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mrs D had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions were genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view. In particular Im not persuaded Metro has 
demonstrated that it can choose not to reimburse Mrs D under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Ill now explain why.  
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
Im mindful Metro argues that the bank provided Mrs D with one of a list of effective 
warnings, although it is unable to say which payment purpose Mrs D chose. Because 
of this, it doesnt know which warning Mrs D wouldve seen when making the 
payments. Metro doesnt consider this bears any weight in this particular case, given 
that it says effective warnings were presented to Mrs D and she couldnt proceed to 
either setting up a new payee or make an initial payment until shed passed this 
stage in the payment journey. I dont agree with Metros stance on this point. In the 
absence of it being able to evidence which payment purpose Mrs D selected and 
therefore, which scam warning she wouldve seen when making the payments, I 
cannot say Metro has established that Mrs D ignored an effective warning.
I do note within our Investigators view and correspondence with Metro that there has 
been discussion and comments made about the payment purpose paying family or 
friends and Metros scam warning for this. This was on the basis that when Metro 
spoke with Mrs D after the scam and asked her what payment purpose she selected, 
she replied to say she would have thought it was paying family or friends and so our 
Investigator set out why she didnt consider this scam warning to be an effective warning under the CRM Code. However, having listened to the particular call 
between Mrs D and Metro I note Mrs D said she couldnt remember and she provided 
a guess as to what she thinks she might have selected at the time of the payments. 
However, she reiterated that she couldnt remember. So, in light of this and the point 
above, Im satisfied Metro hasnt established that Mrs D was given an effective 
warning and that she failed to take appropriate action in response to an effective 
warning. Because of this, I will not be specifically commenting on the paying family 
or friends warning  as Metro hasnt evidenced this is what Mrs D saw. 
Ive then considered whether Metro has shown that Mrs D lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief when making the payments. Having done so, Im not satisfied that Metro has 
established this exception applies under the CRM Code because:
These types of scams are particularly cruel and play on the trust and emotive nature 
of the relationship between a parent and their child. Mrs D has said she believed the 
messages were coming from her son and that she believed he needed her help. 
Metro has raised numerous factors which it says ought to have been red flags to 
Mrs D when making the payments. For example, that Mrs D received a request from 
an unknown number, that she made payments to two different beneficiaries, she 
asked several times whether her son could pay her back  which Metro considers 
meant her son didnt have access to such funds and, that shes said she never 
received a request for a number of payments for such amounts previously. Ive 
thought carefully about Metros representations, but I dont agree. Whilst Mrs D, in 
her contact with Metro following the scam, notices some anomalies in the 
communications from the scammer, Im satisfied that these were identified with the 
benefit of hindsight and not at the time of making the payments. Im persuaded, 
based on the information provided by both parties that it is more likely than not at the 
time that Mrs D believed the message she received was from her son and that she 
had a reasonable basis for this belief at the time.
In this case, Mrs D has told us that due to her sons job, it wasnt uncommon for him 
to have different numbers, and or to be using a different phone. Looking at a copy of 
the messages that have been given to us, Im persuaded that this is more likely than 
not to be the case given that on receiving the initial message Mrs D reply and asked 
if this was one of her sons by name specifically. Here, Mrs D received a message 
from whom she believed to be her son telling her their phone was broken and this 
was a new number. Mrs D had no awareness of this type of scam and in the absence 
of such knowledge, I dont find it unreasonable that Mrs D believed this was a 
plausible explanation and that the messages were from her son.
Monzo has raised that Mrs D had never received a request for a number of 
payments, that were for such large amounts. Mrs D told us that shed helped her son 
out with money in the past. Whilst the request might have been slightly different from 
previous requests, I dont think this in and of itself means that Mrs D didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief at the time she made the payments. I say this because, in 
this situation Mrs D was told her sons account had been blocked by their bank and 
she was asked to make payments before the amounts increased. On balance, based 
on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded the somewhat difference in payment request 
from previous experience, was so unreasonable that Mrs D missed such an obvious 
red flag here. Nor do I think the request ought fairly and reasonably to have caused 
her concern or that it wasnt her son that was reaching out to her.   
I think its important to highlight that under the CRM Code Mrs Ds basis for belief doesnt have to be absolute. But whether Mrs Ds had a reasonable basis for belief 
when making the payments at the time considering all the circumstances  including 
the characteristics, complexity and sophistication of the authorised push payment 
scam and the characteristics of the customer. With the specific circumstances in 
mind, Im satisfied Mrs D had a reasonable basis for belief at the time she made the 
payments. Ive already explained why I think Mrs D was reasonable to believe the 
messages had come from one of her children. And in this case, Im mindful Mrs D 
received a message from her son asking for help with payments otherwise the 
amounts would increase, after their account had been blocked by their bank. Whilst 
Mrs D had attempted to call her son on the number and hadnt been able to get 
through, the messages from the outset set out that they couldnt call at the time. 
Mrs D also told us that due to her sons job it wasnt uncommon that he couldnt call 
or that it was difficult to get through to him by phone in the past. With everything Ive 
seen and been told in mind, combined with the factors Ive explained above (Mrs D 
not having an awareness of these types of scams), I dont think she missed any 
obvious red flags here. 
For completeness - as I set out earlier, in this case Metro hasnt evidenced that it 
provided Mrs D with an effective warning under the CRM Code. Therefore, I cant say 
the warning Mrs D saw ought to have caused her significant concern as, I dont find 
Metro provided an effective warning.  
Metro says there are limitations to what the banks can do to help prevent scams from 
occurring and it doesnt feel our Investigators view of this complaint took into account 
Mrs Ds own responsibility to have carried out any due diligence of her own. Ive 
thought carefully about this point but, the CRM code doesnt require Mrs D to do 
checks, unless there are warning signs or anything that may indicate the payments 
arent legitimate. But from what Ive seen, there wasnt anything that shouldve 
suggested to Mrs D that these payments werent legitimate at the time she was 
making them. 
All in all, Im not satisfied Metro have evidenced that Mrs D didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief when making these payments under the CRM Code.
In summary
Im not satisfied Metro has shown an exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code 
applies to the payments Mrs D made. Therefore, Metro should refund Mrs D in full under the 
CRM Code (minus any funds recovered) and pay interest on that refund at 8% simple 
interest per annum. I consider 8% simple interest to be fair and reasonable in this case as 
Mrs D has been deprived of the use of these funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to: 
Refund the remaining money Mrs D lost as a result of this scam (I calculate this to be 
£2,150) 
 
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially rejected Mrs Ds claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman