DRN-2642811
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). 
The CMC says:
In 1999, Mr and Mrs C were novice investors  theyd never invested in equities. The 
UK Growth Trust fund  rated five out of seven on the risk reward scale  was 
unsuitable for them.   
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage in place so shouldve been advised to pay towards the 
mortgage rather than re-invest two years later. 
What happened
In September 1999, Mr and Mrs C were advised to invest £7,000 each into ISAs, invested in 
the UK Growth Trust fund. In May 2001, they were advised to top-up this amount by another 
£3,000 each. 
In 2013, they encashed their ISAs before moving their funds to a third-party business. In 
total, Mr C made a return of £3,964.23 and Mrs C a return of £4,265.67. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs C complained through their CMC about the suitability of the 
advice. Santander initially having refused to provide consent, subsequently consented to us 
considering the merits of this complaint. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. On the face of the limited available information, it 
said it had seen nothing to suggest that the recommendations were unsuitable.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, shes unable to safely 
conclude that the advice was unsuitable.  
Just because Mr and Mrs C were first time/novice investors or had a mortgage didnt 
mean they couldnt invest in the ISAs. In other words, in the circumstances she cant 
say that risk-based funds were unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C.  
Shes not aware of the risk level of the funds at the time they were sold or of Mr and 
Mrs Cs attitude to risk. 
They invested a total of £20,000 between 1999 and 2001. They encashed their 
investments in 2013 for £27,959, before they were transferred to another provider.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, it said:
Whilst in light of the available evidence, its likely to be more challenging reaching a 
decision, this shouldnt prevent us from reaching the conclusion that the 
recommendation was unsuitable, based on Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. 
At the time Mr C was self-employed and ran a haulage firm and Mrs C worked as a 
secretary. But their income varied and was dependent on the availability of work.  
They had limited savings and the investment represented half of their accessible 
savings if not more. 
They hadnt invested in risk-based investments and were entirely reliant on advice. 
In conclusion, given their variable income, their mortgage and no experience of 
investing  the recommendation was unsuitable.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im 
unable to safely say that the recommendations were unsuitable. In other words, I dont have 
the evidence to conclude that the recommendations were unsuitable for Mrs and Mr C. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise their 
strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by them and Santander and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Given the passage of time  19 and 21 years since the ISAs were sold, and nine years since 
they were encashed  Im not surprised that there isnt more information available from the 
points of sale. Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so I cant blame 
Santander for not being able provide more information about the sale of the ISAs.
 
Despite what the CMC says, I simply dont know what Mrs and Mr Cs financial 
circumstances were at the point of sale in 1999 and 2001, so Im unable to safely conclude 
that theyd invested roughly 50% (if not more) of their available/accessible funds. Even if 
they had, I cant safely say that this wouldve been unsuitable given their circumstances at 
the time. 
I also have no information about their attitude to risk and objectives, so Im unable to say 
whether (or not) these were met. Its possible they were first-time, novice investors, but this 
doesnt of itself mean that they couldnt invest in risk-based funds. On balance, I think its 
more likely than not they were willing to do so with a portion of their money. Whilst I appreciate the points made by the CMC, I dont have the evidence to substantiate 
those points made about why the investments were unsuitable. In other words, I dont have 
the evidence to conclude that the recommendations were unsuitable. 
Just because Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage doesnt mean that it was unsuitable for them to 
initially invest £7,000 in 1999, and/or re-invest another £3,000 each in 2001  on the latter 
occasion I note they re-invested less than half of what theyd initially invested so it doesnt 
seem like they invested too much. Despite what the CMC says, on balance I think its likely 
that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage and wider financial circumstances wouldve been taken into 
account.
I note Mr and Mrs C remained invested for 12/13 years. It seems they only encashed their 
ISAs because their local branch of Santander closed down  and they prefer to have face to 
face contact  not because they were unhappy with the investment or because they thought 
they were taking too much risk. 
Their actions also suggest that they could afford to invest and werent struggling financially. I 
note Mr C owned his own business and Mrs C worked there too. Despite what the CMC says 
about their income being dependent on the availability of work, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the business was struggling. 
Its only with the power of hindsight that we can know whether or not Mr and Mrs C wouldve 
been better off paying into their mortgage (given the interest rate) rather than investing a 
further £3,000 each. I dont think this is something the adviser couldve known or foreseen at 
the point of sale in 2001. 
The above notwithstanding, I also note that Mr and Mrs C made a relatively healthy return on 
their investment, and upon encashment, rather than save their money or pay into their 
mortgage, they decided to re-invest but with/through another business. This doesnt suggest 
that they didnt want to invest or needed the money for other purposes. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr C will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the (limited) available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman