DRN-2149520
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc authorised a disputed transaction on his credit 
card. Hed like them to refund the disputed transaction 
What happened
Mr P has a credit card with Sainsburys. He says his additional card holder, Ill call A, was in 
Japan where he made a chip and PIN payment in a restaurant. A expected the payment to 
be around £99 but instead Mr P was charged £992.60  ten times the amount. 
Mr P contacted Sainsburys and disputed the payment.
 
Sainsburys investigated but concluded that Mr P authorised the disputed transaction and 
the card activity didnt trigger any fraud alerts on their system. They also explained that they 
couldnt raise a chargeback, as Mr P didnt have any evidence to show what he should have 
been charged. But, they accepted they hadnt explained why they couldnt accept the claim 
or raise the chargeback well enough so offered Mr P £50 compensation. 
Mr P didnt agree with Sainsburys decision so asked us to investigate. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. They issued three slightly different 
opinions to both parties. On each occasion they didnt think the money should be refunded. 
But they did think that Sainsburys should have done more in contacting the merchant, and 
so said Mr P should be awarded £150 compensation. In summary she thought that Mr P 
didnt authorise the transaction, because A believed he was only being charged £99, and 
when Mr P raised his dispute with Sainsburys they should have assisted him in making 
contact with the merchant and raising a chargeback. Our investigator also thought that 
Sainsburys should have identified this as a suspicious transaction, but even if they had done 
so Mr P would likely not have identified it as fraudulent and approved the payment. 
Neither Mr P or Sainsburys agreed with our investigators opinion. In summary Sainsburys 
said that Mr P authorised the disputed transaction, the payment didnt trigger their fraud 
detection systems and it isnt their responsibility to contact the merchant so it was fair for 
them to decline the chargeback and they shouldnt be paying Mr P compensation. 
In summary Mr P said:
-He didnt have contact details for the merchant so it wasnt possible for him to gather 
more information for the chargeback, but Sainsburys could have assisted him with 
this. 
-If hed been contacted by Sainsburys when the transaction was attempted he 
wouldnt have approved it  and therefore the transaction wouldnt have been 
successful. 
-He believes that Sainsburys should be fully liable for the disputed transaction, and 
he should get back the transaction not just the £150 compensation 
As neither party accepted our investigators opinion it was passed to me to decide. On 
reviewing the evidence I reached a different conclusion to our investigator. I issued my 
Provisional Decision and asked both parties for their comments. 
Sainsburys accepted my Provisional Decision. Mr P didnt accept my decision and he said in 
summary:
-I dont dispute it was authorised but it was done inadvertently  the amount paid was 
inflated.
-Sainsburys didnt assist in obtaining a refund.
-Theres a requirement for financial institutions to pick up on fraudulent transactions. 
He doesnt spend abroad or in foreign currency so this should have flagged as 
suspicious, and he believes Sainsburys fraud detection systems failed. 
-On the 19 March 2019 Sainsburys blocked a legitimate transaction Mr P carried out 
for £529. He highlights the inadequacy of their systems and questions why this 
transaction was blocked by As transaction wasnt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator.
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Generally, Sainsburys can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ps genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Sainsburys to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Sainsburys to conclude that Mr K 
authorised the transactions. Ill explain why below. 
I understand that Mr P says his son, A, only authorised a payment for £99 therefore be 
believes that the rest of the payment wasnt authorised. But having seen the technical 
evidence Im satisfied that in fact A consented to one payment, and instead of this payment 
being £99 it was for ten times this amount. I realise Mr P will find this frustrating but its the 
cardholder  or the cardholders agent, A,  who takes responsibility for checking the amount 
of the transaction before authorising it. And unfortunately in this case, I dont think A did this. 
I understand it was likely more difficult for A being in Japan and using a different currency, 
but this isnt something I can hold Sainsburys liable for. 
Mr P has also questioned why Sainsburys didnt contact him prior to approving the 
transaction. Ive considered Mr Ps argument  in particular that the transaction was for a 
large amount and in a foreign country. But, Mr P himself has explained he spends around 
£30,000 on his credit card on an annual basis and I wouldnt normally expect one 
transaction, in particular authorised via chip and the correct PIN on the first occasion, to 
trigger a banks fraud prevention system. So Im afraid I cant agree with Mr P here.   
Ive also thought about Sainsburys actions in relation to the chargeback. Under chargeback 
rules Banks arent under any requirement to submit chargebacks for consumers and are 
entitled to decline to do so if theres no prospect of success. In Mr Ps case he didnt have a 
receipt or any other evidence to demonstrate A should have been charged significantly less. 
In not having this evidence Im satisfied that Mr P had no prospect of success in submitting his chargeback  therefore Sainsburys were entitled to refuse this. I appreciate Mr P 
believes Sainsburys should have contacted the merchant or merchant acquirer to obtain 
more details about the transaction  or evidence A wasnt correctly charged  but Im 
satisfied it isnt Sainsburys responsibility to gather evidence for Mr P to meet the 
requirements for a chargeback. So I wont be asking them to do anymore here. 
In response to my Provisional Decision Mr P said he doesnt dispute that the transaction was 
authorised but it was done so inadvertently. I understand Mr Ps argument here, but I 
addressed this in my Provisional Decision. As I explained its As, as Mr Ps agent, 
responsibility to check the transaction amount whether the amount has been inflated or not. 
And I havent changed my view of this. The same applies to Mr Ps second point that 
Sainsburys should have assisted him further  as Ive explained above Im satisfied it isnt 
Sainsburys responsibility to do this. 
Lastly Mr P explained on the 19 March 2019 one of his attempted transactions for £529 was 
blocked  and he questions why As transaction wasnt blocked in the same way. He 
believes a transaction abroad and in foreign currency for the amount carried out should have 
flagged their security systems. Mr Ps correct that banks need to have measures in place to 
spot unusual transactions and protect customers from financial harm but Im afraid  for the 
reasons Ive explained above  Im satisfied that this transaction wouldnt be flagged as 
suspicious. Im not sure of the reasons why the system flagged the £529 transaction, and 
thats not for me to comment on, but I can understand why it wasnt triggered for As 
transaction. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr P but Im not asking Sainsburys to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman