DRN-3197492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) unfairly rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system which they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2014, Mr and Mrs S were contacted by a representative of a company I 
will refer to as P to talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
their home. After the representative of P visited them, Mr and Mrs S decided to buy the 
system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In May 2019, the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P made several representations 
about the system which turned out not to be true. And that it was these misrepresentations 
that induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said that P made the 
following representations:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,300 to mislead Mr and Mrs S as 
when the interest was added the total cost was £13,320; 
Mr and Mrs S were promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,332 but werent made 
aware that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of 
£845.97; 
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
the system would not cost Mr and Mrs S a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the 
claim to be upheld.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered everything, the 
investigator initially felt that the system was underperforming against the estimates that P 
had provided, so she recommended that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was upheld.
Shawbrook didnt agree with the investigators recommendation and responded with some 
additional information. Shawbrook explained that the difference between the estimate and 
actual performance was because an inverter at Mr and Mrs Ss property was turned off 
between December 2014 and March 2015 until P rectified the problem.
Shawbrook calculated that during this time, Mr and Mrs S lost out on energy generation of 
£136.43 and offered to pay this amount to them. The investigator thought that Shawbrook 
should also pay 8% simple interest on the amount it offered.
Our investigator didnt make any further recommendations as she didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs S.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs S could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the systemThe loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods. 
Mr and Mrs S said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,300. They said that 
this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system - £13,320.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs S makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £8,300. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total 
amount of credit is £8,300 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£13,320.
The quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due (as set 
out in the table below). So, Im satisfied that the two documents - the quote and the credit 
agreement - made it clear that although the price of the system was £8,300, it would cost Mr 
and Mrs S more than this as they had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs S allege that P told them their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs S have said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs S could expect to 
receive a total FIT income in year one of £605.76.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £290.19. When the optional extras 
chosen by Mr and Mrs S are taken into account, the combined income and savings in year 
one is shown as £1,087.95. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
There is a page titled system performance and returns with a series of tables. This has 
three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table 
for 120 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 120 monthly payments of £110.99 due and 
compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, 
versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that P told Mr 
and Mrs S that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 10 the overall benefits that Mr and    
Mrs S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would pay for 
itself by year 10, as supported by the table above. If this was to prove to be an untrue 
statement of fact, which I found induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P, and 
they subsequently suffered a loss, then this would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,612 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ss FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 3,113.45 kWh. This is less than estimated by P at the point of sale. 
Shawbrook has provided additional information which shows that P attended Mr and Mrs Ss 
property in March 2015 and found that the inverter had been switched off. Shawbrook turned 
this back on.
P calculated that during this period Mr and Mrs S had a loss of generation of 552.40 kWh. I 
think this explains why the system generated slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale. So, I think the system is performing as estimated by P at the point of sale.
P has offered £136.43 for the loss of generation while the inverter was turned off. I also think 
it would be reasonable for them to calculate and pay 8% simple interest to compensate Mr 
and Mrs S for the time that they have been out of pocket.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Mr and Mrs S havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been 
expecting from the solar panels.
The assumptions that P used were based on the information available from the ONS 
covering 2004 to 2014. I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used these 
assumptions as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs S 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs S entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system. 
I think that the offer made by Shawbrook is fair to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the loss of 
generation when the inverter was turned off. But I think they should add 8% simple interest 
to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the time theyve been out of pocket. 
Putting things rightShawbrook Bank Limited should pay Mr and Mrs S £136.43 together with 8% simple 
interest* on this sum from the date on which the inverter was turned off in December 2014 to 
the date of settlement.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It 
should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one so they can claim the tax 
from HMRC.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to take the step outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman