DRN-3497781
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the service provided to her by Monzo Bank Ltd, when she opened a 
current account with it.
What happened
Mrs K applied to open a bank account with Monzo on 28 December 2021. This application 
was successful, and Mrs K had said she was informed a debit card would be sent to her 
home, with her due to receive it no later than 4 January 2022.
However, Mrs K said this debit card didnt arrive. And so, she needed to re-order the card. 
Mrs K did this with, and shes explained that Monzo told her she would be due to receive this 
card no later than 10 January 2022. But the card again didnt arrive. 
Mrs K has explained that it was very important the debit card was with her by 
10 January 2022. This being because she needed to provide her bank details to her 
employer, so her salary could enter the new Monzo account. Because the card wasnt with 
Mrs K on time, Mrs K said she had to give account details for someone she knew, for her 
salary to go into. And that person is now charging her £450 to access her salary from their 
account.
Due to the above, Mrs K complained to Monzo. It responded and said it had correctly sent 
both debit cards to Mrs K, and so it was satisfied it hadnt done anything wrong here. Monzo 
said it would send a new card to Mrs K, through priority delivery, meaning she would need to 
sign for it this time. As a gesture of goodwill, Monzo offered Mrs K £40. 
Mrs K remained dissatisfied with Monzos response. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. When referring her complaint to this service, Mrs K said 
she felt Monzo should be providing her with at least £450 compensation  to account for 
what she was being charged to access her salary. And she explained that Monzos general 
practices for sending cards should be changed, so the cards were traceable when on their 
way to the customer.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Monzo had provided screenshots showing the cards had been ordered and were being sent 
to the correct address. Our investigator said she didnt hold Monzo accountable for them not 
being received by Mrs K  as Monzo had done what it needed to, by sending the cards, and 
sending them to the right place. Our investigator noted that on it hearing Mrs K had not 
received both cards Monzo offered to send a third one recorded delivery. And it offered 
Mrs K £40. Our investigator thought this was fair.
Mrs K didnt agree. She felt that Monzo were responsible for the whole process when 
opening an account with it  including the delivery of the cards. Mrs K noted that Monzo 
shouldnt have waited for two failed delivery attempts to send the card recorded delivery. Mrs 
K highlighted the stress the situation had caused to her. And said whilst she now didnt 
expect Monzo to compensate her £450, she did think the compensation provided to her 
should be higher than £40.
Because Mrs K didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mrs K has said Monzo acted unreasonably in the way it issued her debit card to her, and in 
how it dealt with the situation once the cards didnt arrive. So, Ive thought carefully about 
this.
I think it was reasonable for Mrs K to expect that once she had successfully applied for the 
bank account, she would be sent the card for the account in a timely manner. Ive looked to 
see whether Monzo did this. And Im satisfied it did.
Monzo has provided this service with screenshots to show that when Mrs K opened her bank 
account, it automatically ordered her debit card be sent her. This order being on the same 
day as the account was opened. Ive looked to see whether the details on the order were 
correct. And Im aware the order was addressed to Mrs Ks home. So, Im satisfied that 
Monzo did the right thing, in ordering the card in a timely manner, to the right place.
Im aware the debit card was due to be with Mrs K on 4 January 2022 but didnt arrive. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ks disappointment with this  I dont hold Monzo accountable for the 
card not reaching her. It is usual practice for banks to send debit cards through the standard 
post, using the Royal Mail. So, Monzo wasnt doing anything unusual or unreasonable in 
sending the card in this way. And once the card was issued and sent in the post, the delivery 
of this was out of Monzos control. It had already done what it needed to, to make sure the 
card went to the right place. So, whilst it was unfortunate the card didnt arrive, I dont think 
Monzo acted unfairly  it wasnt to know the item wouldnt arrive. 
Ive seen the contact history between Mrs K and Monzo. And this shows that Mrs K 
contacted Monzo on 6 January 2022, to let it know the card hadnt arrived. At that point, I do 
think Monzo did the right thing. It correctly let Mrs K know that the way forward was to order 
another card. It double checked Mrs Ks address was correct and advised it should take four 
days for a replacement card to reach her. So, I dont think Monzo did anything wrong here. 
And as above, I dont hold Monzo accountable for any delays or problems with the Royal 
Mail.
I understand the card didnt arrive by 10 January 2022, and Mrs K raised her concerns at 
this point. Monzo then agreed to send the card recorded delivery, so Mrs K could sign for 
this. I think that given the two failed delivery attempts before, this seemed a fair thing to do. I 
know Mrs K feels that Monzo should have offered this sooner  but its unusual for two 
cards, sent to the right address, not to arrive on time. And, as above, Monzo sent the cards 
through a common method  which I dont think was unfair.
When Monzo offered to send this third card Mrs K said she was out of town, and so signing 
for the card wasnt possible. And when she arrived home, the second card sent seems to 
have arrived with her. So, Im pleased that Mrs K now has the card and is using the account.
 
Mrs K has said Monzo should send all of its cards to customers in a traceable way. I 
appreciate a traceable delivery may have been a preferable method of postage. But it isnt for this service to tell a bank how it should send documents. And so, I dont require Monzo to 
do anything differently here.
Mrs K has explained that because her debit card hadnt reached her in time for 10 January 
2022, she didnt have the relevant account details to give her employer. And so, she had to 
give someone elses bank details  for her salary to be paid into their account instead. Mrs K 
has said that person is now charging her £450 to access her salary. As above, I dont 
consider Monzo did anything wrong. But even if I did, I wouldnt require Monzo to pay this 
amount. That was a private arrangement between Mrs K and someone else.
Monzo offered Mrs K £40 compensation, as a gesture of goodwill. Im satisfied that amount 
is fair and reasonable in this situation. I dont think Monzo did anything wrong. But I think the 
£40 offered by Monzo shows it acknowledging the trouble Mrs K went through and taking 
steps to recognise this  alongside its offer to send a card recorded delivery. So, I dont 
require Monzo to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £40 offered by Monzo Bank Ltd is fair and 
reasonable. If it hasnt already this sent to Mrs K then it should do so. 
I dont require it to do anything more than that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman