DRN-3564430
The complaint
Mr S complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as 
Hargreaves Lansdown, referred to as the business. 
In summary, he says the business notified him of a Rights Issue too late, such that he was 
unable to respond in time before the deadline. As a consequence, he couldnt purchase 
shares at a lower price.   
To put things right, hed like the business to compensate him for his losses. 
What happened
Mr S owned shares in the International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), held in a 
nominated account. 
On 11 September 2020, the Rights Issue, which allowed existing shareholders (such as Mr 
S) to purchase new shares at a favourable price, was announced. But Mr S said that he 
wasnt aware of the Corporate Action. 
On 14 September 2020, whilst checking the price of shares on his television, Mr S noticed 
that the share price had fallen so he purchased 500 shares. On 21 September 2020 he 
purchased a further 500 shares.  
On 22 September 2020, Mr S received a letter from the business dated 17 September 2020, 
notifying him of the Corporate Action. The letter explained the quantity of shares he was 
credited with and outlined the three options available to him namely to take up his rights, sell 
his rights or do nothing. 
Mr S was required to provide a response with his chosen option by 22 September 2020. The 
business also directed him to its website which contained further information. Prior to that, 
the business had emailed Mr S on 9 August 2020, and 11 September 2020 giving notice of 
the Corporate Action, but Mr S didnt see them. He said he was paying £24 a year to receive 
correspondence by post, consequently he wasnt checking his emails, so the business 
shouldve sent the letter by (first class) post. 
On 16 October 2020, after several calls to the business, Mr S managed to lodge a complaint. 
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 27 October 2020, the business rejected the 
complaint. In short, it said it sent Mr S two emails giving him advance warning of the Rights 
Issue. It sent a further email and posted a letter on 17 September 2020, as soon as was 
practicable after it had received formal confirmation of the Corporate Action. In the 
circumstances it doesnt agree with the losses.  
Unhappy with the business decision, Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
The business did what it was required to do. 
Notwithstanding the short timeframe, the business confirmed that a letter notifying Mr 
S of the Rights Issue was sent by first class post on 17 September 2020, giving him 
six days, including a weekend, to reply. Therefore, the business hasnt treated Mr S 
unfairly. 
Clause A6, under the Vantage Service terms and conditions states:  When we 
write to you it will be sent by standard post (or if you request it we can send it by 
registered post, provided that you pay for the postage) or, in certain circumstances, 
we will contact you by email or via our secure message centre. Cheques will always 
be sent by standard post.
Clause A19, under Corporate Actions states: If you have not signed up for the 
Paperless Service you will receive a letter. However, if a deadline applies to the 
Corporate Action and provides you with limited time to act, we may also email you (if 
you have registered an email address with us).
So, in certain circumstances, the business was entitled to contact Mr S by secure 
message or email. In this instance it had pre-warned him  on 9 August 2020 when it 
was first announced and 11 September 2020 when it received confirmation  about 
what lay ahead. In addition to the letter sent, it hasnt acted unreasonably. The 
business cant be held responsible for any postal delays. 
Clause A25, under the heading Custody, states: Investments you purchase or 
transfer into an Account will be held in the name or to the order of HL Nominees or 
any other nominee company in the Hargreaves Lansdown Group or by an approved 
third party custodian to our order. HL Nominees is a non-trading company set up to 
hold investments on behalf of our clients. HLAM is responsible and liable for HL 
Nominees to the same extent as for its own acts. Investments held on your behalf 
may be pooled with the investments of other clients, and as a result your holding may 
not be individually identifiable on the relevant company register. This suggests that 
processing the corporate action and sending notification would take time. 
The evidence shows that the business received confirmation on the Friday, and it 
was processed, and notification was sent out by first class post the following 
Thursday, with a three-day turnaround time, but this isnt unreasonable given the 
large volume of work involved. 
The business confirmed that the deadline on 22 September 2020 was extended from 
12:00pm to 17:00pm as a result of this.  
Despite what Mr S says about being notified earlier, he has an execution only 
relationship with the business, so it was his responsibility to keep up to date with the 
latest news regarding his investments. Clause A18 under Corporate Actions, states: 
It is your responsibility to identify any upcoming Corporate Actions before 
purchasing an investment as we will not provide you with any notification at the time 
you place your purchase.
Mr S said that he bought the shares, a day or two before receiving the notification 
from the business because he was checking the price on TV, as he does each day, 
and noticed that the prices had fallen. He felt something was going to happen but 
didnt know when or what, as he didnt have any details. So, he went ahead and 
purchased the shares so as not to lose out. 
Mr S had an opportunity to find out what was happening but didnt contact the 
business or conduct any further research as to what might be happening. News of 
the impending rights was also in the public domain since July 2020. In the 
circumstances, the business has given Mr S the opportunity to participate in the 
rights issue. 
Despite having some knowledge, it wouldnt have been practical for the business to 
send the letter before the Corporate Action was confirmed. Clause A19, under the 
heading Corporate Action, states. Only information issued through the London Stock 
Exchange, issued to us directly by the investment company for the purposes of 
communication to clients, or from the registrars will be relayed to you. So, it was reasonable for the business to wait for confirmation. 
On 2 September 2020, Mr S called the business but understandably couldnt get 
through, as there were other customers doing the same.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
provided a chronology of his dealings with the business but in summary, he made the 
following key points:
Hes in his mid-80s and doesnt have sufficient computer knowledge thats why he 
paid to have letters sent. Checking his emails didnt even occur to him. 
Its not true that the business wrote to him on 17 September 2020 by first class post. 
The businesss standard practice is to send letters by standard post. Despite him 
paying to receive postal communication, the business goes against the industry 
practice, perhaps to generate money, contrary to stock exchange rules.
Another way it achieves a financial gain is by not publicising the Rights Issue. When 
a company declares a Rights Issue, it publishes its full accounts and provides them 
to its shareholders, the press, and stockbrokers but now the business acts as a 
trustee and administrator without any responsibility of providing the information to 
others. It doesnt even provide the balance sheet to enable investors to make an 
informed choice. 
Interestingly, contract notes for shares in Serco  sold on 13 May 2020  was 
received on 20 May 2020. 
He made several calls to the business to find out about what was happening with the 
IAG Rights Issue. But for over a week he couldnt get through. 
The financial loss hes suffered arises from this case arises out of following two 
issues which he expanded upon:
oA lack of care and responsibility on the part of the business. 
oThe business trying to achieve financial gain by downgrading the level of 
service to its investors. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons for 
much the same reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably in this instance such that the complaint should 
be upheld. In other words, I dont think the business deliberately prevented him from 
participating in the Rights Issue. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr S 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its 
for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im satisfied that he 
was written to by the business  in line with his wishes  and its obligations, in a letter dated 
17 September 2020, as soon as it was practicable to do so, following the confirmation of the 
Corporate Action. 
On balance, I cant blame the business for not writing to Mr S sooner given the limited 
timescale. I note that it was waiting for confirmation of the Corporate Action, and it had work 
to do before it could write to him, in order to be able to carry out any future instructions 
effectively. On balance, I cant say that it behaved unreasonably given the timescales that it 
was working with.   
I note Clause A19 of the terms and conditions from when he opened his account under the 
heading Corporate Actions states:
Companies may only give investors a limited timescale in which to participate in certain 
Corporate Actions and in those circumstances we may not be able to communicate the 
details of the Corporate Action to you in time for you to participate. We will not be liable to 
you where you are unable to participate in a Corporate Action as a result of the short 
timescales set by third parties  
I note the business doesnt guarantee that it will always be able to communicate the details 
of the Corporate Action in time for the customer to be able to participate. So, in my opinion it 
hasnt done anything wrong by not being able to give Mr S more time to take action. 
Given that Mr S was paying for a postal service, I think its more likely that this letter was 
sent (to the address it had on file) on 17 September 2020. When a (third party) business 
provides evidence that a letter had been written, correctly dated, and addressed, this service 
generally would accept that position. In this case Im satisfied the letter regarding the Rights 
Issue was correctly dated, addressed, and sent to Mr S, on 17 September 2020. The 
business simply couldnt guarantee or accurately predict when the letter would be received.   
The business has confirmed that the letter in question was sent by first class post. Whilst I 
appreciate the standard practice is to send post by standard delivery, I note business 
emphasised that all information with deadlines is sent via first class post, and this seems to 
be something the business has done of its own volition. On balance I think its more likely 
than not the letter in question was probably sent by first class post. But even it wasnt, I dont 
think I could uphold the complaint as it wasnt part of Mr Ss agreement with the business. 
Im aware the letter wasnt sent by recorded delivery because the business wasnt obliged to 
and thats not what Mr S had asked for, and it probably wouldve cost Mr S a lot more 
money. In any case, theres no guarantee that a letter sent via recorded delivery wouldve 
got there any sooner without any issues.
In any case, the business was only obliged to communicate with Mr S by post, there wasnt a 
requirement for it to send letters before it notified other customers electronically so that the 
message would be received at or about the same time. 
Its possible that the letter in question was delivered late, as a result of issues with the post. 
But if that was the case, its not something I can blame the business for. In other words, I 
cant blame the business for the actions of an independent third-party postal service. It could be argued that its an inherent risk that a customer takes when they elect to have 
notifications in the post, rather than by an electronic method. 
I appreciate in this instance Mr S had his reasons for paying to receive notification in the 
post and I make no criticism of this. But it means Im unable to blame the business for him 
not receiving the message sooner given the timescales that it has to work with.   
I note that Mr S was separately emailed  on the same date as the letter, with the same 
message  which he wouldve received instantly. I note that he was also emailed/secure 
messaged on two previous occasions  on 9 August 2020 when the Rights Issue was first 
announced and 11 September 2020 when it received confirmation  pre-warning him of what 
was probably ahead. 
Given the limited time frame, in the circumstances, I dont think the business behaved 
unreasonably by following this course of action  separate to the letter sent  which was also 
in line with its terms and conditions. On balance, Im unable to safely say that this affected 
the businesss obligation to notify him by post which Im satisfied it did at a reasonable time. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr S wasnt notified about the 
Rights Issue in good time, even though it took some time to confirm the Corporate Action 
and because a lot of preparation work was involved. I appreciate that Mr S ultimately wasnt 
able to purchase the shares at the price he preferred to, but in the circumstances, and on 
balance, thats not something I can blame the business for. 
I note that Mr S, independent of the business, noticed a drop in share value, so he 
purchased 500 shares on 14 September 2020, and another 500 shares on 21 September 
2020. I note he did so, of his own volition and without advice or guidance from the business, 
so as not to lose out. 
As an investor, Mr S is entitled to purchase as many shares as he would like or can afford, 
but in this instance, I note he did so without fully knowing what was happening and why. Im 
mindful Mr S accepts that he thought that something might be happening when he saw the 
share price, but he didnt contact the business to find out what was going on and if there 
might be a Rights Issue.  
In other words, instead of contacting the business or checking his email/secure message  
which I accept wasnt his preferred method of communication  or conducting further 
independent research into why this might be happening, he independently decided to 
purchase additional shares on two separate occasions. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Mr Ss choosing not to contact the business or 
conduct further research, despite thinking something might be happening, isnt something 
that I can blame the business for. Im mindful the business only offered an execution only 
service and so it was ultimately his responsibility to do what was right for him and be aware 
of any Corporate Actions. I also note that this issue was in the public domain since July 
2020.  
Im mindful of Mr Ss theories about why he believes the business behaved in the way that it 
did, but I cant safely say that the business didnt notify him  or deliberately delayed doing 
so  so that he wouldnt be able to buy shares at a favourable price. For the reasons set out 
above, Im unable to agree and say that this was the case. 
Unlike Mr S, I cant see that its of any benefit to the business to deliberately treat its 
customers in this way and generate complaints. I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman