DRN-1798910
The complaint
F is complaining about the way Tradex Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim it 
made on its commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2019 a fire caused damage on Fs premises. It also caused damage to neighbouring 
commercial premises. F made a claim on its Tradex insurance policy for the damage the fire 
caused to the premises and vehicles. Similarly the neighbouring businesses also sought to 
claim for the damage to their property.
In August 2019 Tradex declined Fs claim for the following reasons:
1. F only had a road risks insurance policy, but the damage to the property occurred onsite; 
and
2. It believes the fire was caused by the ignition of flammable waste. But, the terms of the 
policy required F to remove these materials from the property.
F complained to Tradex about the decision to decline the claim. In December 2019, F 
referred its complaint to this service to review. Shortly afterwards, Tradex agreed to 
reconsider the claim.
Our investigator thought Tradexs initial decision to decline the claim was premature. But he 
thought it was fair for it to reopen the claim and reconsider it. 
F didnt accept the investigators opinion as it said Tradex wasnt investigating the claim pro-
actively and it thought Tradex should settle the claim.
As F didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain in this decision I can only look at Tradexs actions up to when F referred 
its complaint to us in December 2019. I note F has raised a large number of concerns about 
the way Tradex (and its representatives have acted)  including suggestions of mistaken 
identities in respect to Fs director. But these issues are the subject to a new complaint and 
F will need to raise a new complaint with this service in respect of this. 
Similarly, Im also conscious that F has said it wants to provide further information to support 
its complaint. But I think this information is in respect to its concerns about the way Tradex 
has handled the claim since December 2019. And, as I said, Im not considering these 
actions in this complaint.
Ive looked at the way Tradex initially handled the claim and I dont think it handled it fairly. 
However, I also dont think F has lost out because of this and Ill now explain why.
The terms of the insurance policy covered loss or damage caused by fire. Theres no dispute 
Fs property was damage by fire. So Im satisfied an insured event took place. So its for 
Tradex to show that an exclusion clause applies to entitle it to decline the claim or show that 
F breached a condition of the policy which meant there was no cover in place for the insured 
event.
Tradex has relied on the following exclusion clause to decline the claim:
L  Application of heat at the trade premises
If the work you undertake involves the use of gas or electric welding and cutting equipment, 
blow lamps, blow torches or similar equipment, no claim will be met unless the following 
requirements have been complied with every time heat is applied.
i) Before starting work
a) you must be, or appoint an employee to be, responsible for fire safety and for ensuring 
that all necessary precautions are taken
b) you must ensure that the area of the trade premises selected for the work to be carried 
out is of non combustible construction, that all combustible materials have been moved 
to a distance of at least 6 metres from where work will be carried out and that the only 
gas cylinders present are necessary for the job in hand
c) all spare gas cylinders are securely stored outside the buildings
d) you must ensure that combustible materials are not in danger of ignition either directly or 
indirectly by conducted heat and that combustible materials which cannot be moved are 
covered and fully protected by overlapping sheets or screens of non-combustible 
material
The fire brigade report has suggested the fire was likely to be caused by the ignition of 
flammable material. Tradex has also fairly highlighted a number of inconsistencies between 
statements made by Fs director. So I dont think it was unfair Tradex had concerns about 
the validity of the claim. However, as I said above, it was for Tradex to demonstrate F had 
breached the above condition  not for F to show it hadnt.
At the time Tradex declined the claim, I dont think there was enough for it to understand 
what had happened and what had caused the fire to start. So, it follows, that I think it was 
unfair that it declined the claim when it did. Im pleased to see Tradex has since accepted 
this and agreed to reconsider the claim.
I note F thinks Tradex should settle the claim in full. But I do think there are some valid 
concerns in respect to this claim that Tradex needed to investigate fully. So, I dont think I 
can fairly say, based on the evidence available when F referred the complaint to this service 
in December 2019, that Tradex was unfair in wanting to investigate this claim further.
Theres no dispute Tradex has delayed this claim. It shouldnt have declined it in August 
2019 and it took four months before Tradex reopened it. But Im also conscious the claim still 
hasnt been resolved. So Im not persuaded that the situation would be materially different 
had Tradex not declined the claim in August 2019 and it had continued to carry out 
investigations then.
I note Fs director has suggested this matter has caused him distress and inconvenience. 
But he isnt a customer of Tradex  F is. As such, I can only consider the impact this matter has had on F. And, as I said above, I dont think the four month delay has had a material 
impact on F, because I dont think the situation would be any different to what it is now. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Tradex Insurance 
Company Limiteds offer to reconsider the claim was fair and reasonable. I dont require it to 
do anything further. 
If F remains unhappy with the way Tradex Insurance Company Limited continued to 
investigate the claim, it will need to raise a new complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman