DRN-3463458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd (LCM) sold them an 
incorrect life and critical illness policy that didnt meet their needs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D spoke to LCM about their life and critical illness cover arrangements between 
March and August 2020. That led to Mr and Mrs D cancelling an existing policy and setting 
up a new one that cost less. But the new policy also provided less cover, which wasnt what 
Mr and Mrs D wanted. 
In response to the complaint, LCM explained that their recommendation to Mr and Mrs D 
had changed around July 2020. Theyd initially recommended Mr and Mrs D cancel their 
existing life-cover policy and an income protection policy, and replace them with a new 
policy. But when they looked at the cost for that, it would have been more than Mr and Mrs D 
were already paying. So LCM said to just cancel the income protection policy and buy a 
policy that added to the existing life cover instead. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree that the recommendation was to top up their existing policy  their 
understanding was that they were replacing what they already had with like-for-like cover at 
a cheaper cost. So the complaint came to us.
Our investigator saw there were emails from the time  particularly around July 2020  that 
supported what LCM had said. Their recommendation had changed. And our investigator felt 
that had been explained reasonably to Mr and Mrs D at the time. So she didnt ask LCM to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
LCM didnt respond to that view, which Ive taken to mean theyve accepted it. Mr and Mrs D 
didnt agree with the view though, repeating that LCM hadnt told them the policy theyd 
bought was a top-up to their existing cover, rather than a replacement for it. 
The complaint is now with me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find there does appear to have been a misunderstanding here thats 
created the problem for Mr and Mrs D. But I cant see LCM have unreasonably caused that 
misunderstanding. So Im not going to tell them they should now be responsible for putting 
things right. 
I can see the plan in March 2020 was as Mr and Mrs D have described  they were to cancel 
their existing policy and replace it with a cheaper one that provided more critical illness 
cover. But the emails from the time show me that plan changed. 
From July 2020, LCM repeatedly talked about the new policy being only for £50,000 of cover 
 not the much higher amount the existing policy covered. Emails Mr and Mrs D sent us from 
13 and 14 July show Mrs D directly referring to this figure, and to the changes  seemingly 
referring to the change of plans from what had been discussed in March.
LCMs emailed response on 14 July explained what was being recommended as follows:
For the illness cover you were paying £100pm for the [named providers] income 
protection policy and we are replacing this with an additional £50,000 of life and 
critical illness cover for £78.39 this still saves you money and gives you both 
additional illness cover.
Its true this didnt go as far as saying dont cancel your existing life and critical illness 
cover. But it did identify the specific policy that was being replaced as being an income 
protection one. And it did say the new illness cover was additional. And it specifically said 
the level of cover was £50,000, not the full mortgage amount. 
Later emails repeated these details in one way or another. I can see our investigator 
highlighted emails from 6 August 2020 that also show Mrs D was aware the policy being sold 
was for £50,000 of cover, not the full mortgage amount. At no point in any of those later 
emails did LCM tell Mr and Mrs D to cancel their existing life and critical illness cover. 
From this evidence, I conclude that LCM havent misrepresented this policy to Mr and Mrs D. 
It was sold and explained as being in addition to their existing life and critical illness cover. 
As such, I dont consider LCM are responsible for the confusion that seems to have led to Mr 
and Mrs D cancelling their existing cover, when really they wanted to keep it.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman