DRN-4058546
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application Mrs P, Mr P and 
Mr P made to Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. This was the third of three 
linked BTL applications. The first two went through successfully; the third did not.
 
What happened
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
The valuer who assessed the property considered it unsuitable as security for the proposed 
mortgage due to its poor condition, and recommended a full retention pending essential 
repairs. Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P arranged for repairs and submitted an invoice as proof the 
work had been done. Virgin Money declined to consider the application any further, giving no 
explanation. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say theyve met the conditions of 
Virgin Moneys offer and it withdrew the offer unfairly. They say their financial plans were 
reliant on all three mortgages being granted, and theyre now incurring the costs of having 
the other two without the benefits.
The details of this complaint are known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint. Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
On the complaint form submitted to us, in the section on how the business should put things 
right for them, Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P said Virgin should honour the offer it had made and 
they had accepted. New rules came into force in March 2017 that made it much harder for a 
lender to withdraw a mortgage offer once its been issued. So if Virgin had withdrawn an 
offer after it had been made, it would have to show it was justified in doing so.
However this is not a case of a lender withdrawing a mortgage offer after it had been made. 
When we checked the position and asked for a copy of the offer, Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P 
changed their position by telling us no offer had been issued. Virgin has confirmed this to be 
the case. Rather, Virgin decided before an offer was issued that it wasnt willing to consider 
the application further. Lenders can do that; indeed, the application form Mrs P, Mr P and 
Mr P submitted for the mortgage included a narrative to that effect. 
Lenders dont need to give applicants a reason for rejecting an application, but they do need 
to have a reason. Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P are understandably unhappy and frustrated at not 
being told the reason for their application being rejected. The bank has told us, but in 
confidence. Our rules permit this; the rules also allow me to decide whether its fair to rely on 
evidence that only one party has seen. 
The information Virgin Money had sent us is sensitive and on balance I dont believe it 
should be disclosed to Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P. But its also clearly material to the issue of 
whether Virgin Money has treated Mrs P, Mr P and Mr P fairly. So Im persuaded I should 
take it into account when deciding the outcome of the complaint. Thats what Ive done, and 
the conclusion Ive reached is that Virgin Money didnt act unreasonably when it exercised its 
judgement to reject the application in the way it did.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P, Mr P and 
Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman