DRN-4448885
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) has unfairly declined a
claim under their contents insurance policy.
Because Mrs V has been leading on this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout my
decision. Any reference to AIE includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
events.
In 2014, whilst abroad, Mrs V purchased a diamond ring and watch. The receipt
shows the total price of the items, but not the individual retail prices. The total price
was approximately £2,500.
In July 2018, Mrs V took out her contents insurance policy  which is underwritten by
AIE. When taking out the policy, Mrs V answered no to the question Do you have
any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each (excluding bicycles)?
In December 2022, Mrs V realised her ring was missing, and having not been able to
find it, made a claim on her policy in February 2023.
AIE declined the claim saying the ring was worth more than £2,000, and as it wasnt
listed as a specified item, it wasnt covered under the policy.
Unhappy with AIEs decision, Mrs V brought a complaint to this Service. She
explained shed paid £1,350 for the ring, and so believed its value to be less than
£2,000.
An Investigator considered it and upheld and said AIE should cover the claim. But
AIE disagreed and so, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans
decision. Ive included an extract below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy document which says under optional cover for your
contents - personal possessions away from your property:
You will need to specify any personal belongings, gadgets or valuables that
are individually worth £2,001 or more. If you have not specified these items,
they will not be insured.
Valuables is defined as Articles made from or containing gold, silver and other
precious metals or stones, jewellery []. So, Im satisfied Mrs Vs ring is to be
considered a valuable.
AIE has declined Mrs Vs claim on the basis the ring should have been specified as it 
was worth £3,500  and therefore, over the policy limit for unspecified items away
from the home. Ive looked at the valuation and theres nothing to indicate this isnt a
fair valuation. In the absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied it
was reasonable for AIE to rely on this.
Turning to whether AIEs decision to decline the claim was fair - Ive first considered
whether it was reasonable for AIE to consider the claim under the personal
possessions away from the property section.
Mrs V acknowledges herself that she doesnt know if the ring was lost in or outside of
her home. But she has said that upon realising her ring was missing, she waited a
couple of months to see if it appeared at home, but it didnt. Whilst its possible the
ring is in her home, given she acknowledges it could have also been lost away from
the home  along with the fact it hasnt been found - persuades me that it was more
than likely lost away from the home. And so, I consider it reasonable for AIE to
consider the claim under this section of the policy.
I next need to consider whether Mrs V ought to have known her ring was worth more
than £2,001 and should have therefore, specified it  as required by this sections
policy terms.
Mrs V says she didnt realise her ring was worth more than £2,000 because shed
paid £1,350 for it. That might be Mrs Vs truly held belief, but I must keep in mind that
there is a responsibility on the policy holder to provide accurate information so the
insurer can fairly assess whether it wants to provide cover. This is an ongoing
responsibility, and so, obtaining accurate valuations for possessions when taking out
and renewing the policy is part of doing so.
The question asked at the time of taking out the policy was whether Mrs V had any
valuables worth over £2,000, not whether shed paid more than £2,000 for them. So,
whilst I appreciate Mrs V might have had what shed paid for her ring in mind, Im
satisfied it was brought to her attention that she needed to consider the rings worth
 which is different.
As Im satisfied the ring had a value of more than £2,001, it ought to have been
specified to be covered whilst away from the home. As it wasnt specified, I consider
AIE to have applied the policy terms fairly when declining Mrs Vs claim.
Ms V replied. In summary, she said:  
oIf insurers give consumers the responsibility of deciding an items value, then 
the insurer should insure it for that value.
 
oShe believed her ring had a worth less than £2,000. 
oShe believes her ring was lost in recycling at home. 
AIE didnt reply. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs V has said, but it doesnt change my mind. Ultimately, the onus 
was on Mrs V to provide accurate information when renewing her policy  and so, whilst Mrs 
V might not have realised having her ring valued was important and could determine 
whether a claim was accepted or not, that doesnt absolve her of this responsibility or mean 
AIEs decision is unfair. 
Mrs V has emphasised that she believes her ring was lost in the recycling at home and was 
taken to the tip, but I cant ignore that within her original email to the business she says: I 
lost my ring and to be totally honest, this could have been at home or away, there is every 
possibility that this was dropped into packaging that was destined for the tip.  
Mrs V went on to explain shed last seen the ring in the pocket of a handbag which was 
hanging up and that it possibly fell into the recycling below. But shes not provided sufficient 
detail to persuade me that this it was most likely lost in this way. And so, I remain of the view 
that AIEs decision to decline the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman