DRN-3199130
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Lex Autolease Ltd charged him for damage when he returned a car at the 
end of a hire agreement.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr W acquired a car using a hire agreement provided by Lex. He leased the 
car over four years. In April 2021 the car was collected and inspected. The inspection noted 
damage to several areas and Lex sent Mr W an invoice for a total of £762.
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to Lex. He said the charges shouldnt stand 
and because he returned the car with less miles on than allowed under the agreement it 
should offset this against any invoice.  
Lex issued its final response in May 2021. It said, in summary, that it would remove a charge 
for a scratch to the left hand rear door as a gesture of goodwill. But, it said the other charges 
were correct. It also said Mr W chose the mileage allowed under the agreement and this 
couldnt be offset against charges. Lex said the following was still being charged, with a 
waiver of £100 deducted:
Damage Charge
Door RHF - scratched £175
Door RHR - scratched £175
Quarter panel RHR -scratched £237
Total £587
Mr W remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said the scratches 
were scuffs and so shouldnt be charged. He said he could rub off the marks with his 
jumper, which hed done on the left hand rear door before taking the photo of it. And he still 
thought the mileage should be offset against the charges. 
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said, 
in summary, that the damage to the car fell outside of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines for fair wear and tear, so it was reasonable to charge Mr W 
for it. Mr W disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr W complains about charges at the end of a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Ws complaint against Lex.
What I need to consider here is whether it was fair and reasonable to charge Mr W for the 
damage to the car. Ill firstly consider whether Mr W agreed to be charged for damage when 
he took out the agreement.
Looking at the terms and conditions that Mr W signed, these explain when handing the car 
back:
If the returned Goods are not in reasonable condition for their age and mileage, you must 
also immediately pay us the cost of putting them in that condition or (if we choose) the 
reduction in their value caused by them not being in reasonable condition
So, Im satisfied Lex had the right to charge Mr W for damage to the car outside of fair wear 
and tear. Ill now consider the damage itself. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guide states in 
relation to bodywork:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out
Ive considered the photos and video provided from the inspection.
In relation to the RHF door, I can see several scratches to the paintwork. I agree with Mr Ws 
point that the scratches are less than 25mm each. But, Im also satisfied these have gone 
through the paintwork, so it follows Im satisfied this damage still falls outside of fair wear 
and tear.
Looking at the photo of the RHR door, I can clearly see a scratch that is over 25mm. Im 
satisfied this falls outside of fair wear and tear. 
Im also satisfied the photo of the RHR quarter panel also clearly shows a scratch of over 
25mm. It follows Im also satisfied this falls outside of the BVRLA guidance.
In summary, Im satisfied Lex was entitled to charge Mr W for damage outside of fair wear 
and tear. And Im satisfied the damage Mr W was invoiced for falls outside of the guidelines.
I have considered what Mr W said about the fact that he believes the scratches were scuffs 
and couldve been polished out by rubbing a jumper on them. Looking at the photos, on 
balance I dont think this was most likely the case. And, Ive also considered that the BVRLA 
has also looked at these photos and thought the damage was outside of fair wear and tear. 
So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Finally, Ive considered what Mr W said about the fact that the car was returned with fewer 
miles than the maximum allowed under the agreement. I do appreciate the point hes 
making. But, theres nothing in the terms and conditions to suggest Lex are obligated to 
make any allowance or give any refund here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman