DRN-4217441
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (Casualty & 
General) has declined her claim for the costs of surgery for her pet dog. She wants 
Casualty & General to settle her claim in full.
What happened
Mrs S has owned a pet Labrador, M, for around 9 years. 
She insured him with a company, P, in September 2019. 
Casualty & General took over underwriting that policy from the renewal in September 2021. 
In March 2021, M began exhibiting some signs of lameness in his front legs. His vet began 
investigating, and in July 2021 he was diagnosed with dysplasia of the elbows. 
Between late 2021 and early 2022, M required treatment including an operation. His vet has 
subsequently confirmed that this was to treat right medial coronoid process, and spinal cord 
disease. 
Mrs S submitted claims to Casualty & General for reimbursement of the vet costs. 
Casualty & General requested Ms medical history, and then declined the claims. It argued 
that the treatment was linked to elbow dysplasia, and it considered that this was a pre-
existing condition. 
Casualty & General pointed to the policy wording and the schedule where it made clear that 
cover for pre-existing conditions was not included. 
It said that, if it had known about Ms previous signs of lameness, it would have excluded 
any conditions related to right and left fore lameness from the date of policy renewal in 
September 2021. 
Mrs S was not happy with this and contacted us. Our investigator looked into this matter and 
thought that the complaint should be upheld, on the basis that the vet had confirmed that the 
operation was due to spinal cord disease and not elbow dysplasia. Casualty & General did 
not accept the investigators view and so the matter was referred for an ombudsman 
decision. 
I issued a first provisional decision in April 2023. In that provisional decision I set out that I 
agreed that the complaint should be upheld, but for different reasons. I explained that I did 
not consider that there had been any misrepresentation of Ms health and so it was not fair to 
decline the claims on the basis of undeclared pre-existing conditions. I explained that I 
thought that Casualty & General should settle the previously declined claims and pay Mrs S 
£250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision was shared with the parties, and they were invited to comment. 
Mrs S accepted that decision and reasons. Casualty & General also accepted the decision.
Within the acceptance from the business, Casualty & General set out the deductions which it 
intended to make from the settlement. This included unpaid premiums for the remainder of 
the period, after Mrs S cancelled her policy following the decline of her latest claim. 
This alerted me to the fact that Mrs S had cancelled her insurance policy early and, I 
believed would likely have incurred extra expenses in getting insurance elsewhere. I 
therefore issued a second provisional decision indicating that I considered any additional 
costs of insurance form which Mrs S incurred between May 2022 and September 2022 were 
a financial effect of the complaint issues. 
That second decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Casualty & General has not raised any objections to the decision but requested details of 
any alternative insurance which Mrs S obtained for M. 
Mrs S has responded, indicating that she did not obtain replacement insurance for M 
immediately as, due to her experience with Casualty & General, she became disillusioned 
with the idea of pet insurance. M was therefore not insured for the period May 2022  
September 2022 and this caused Mrs S additional worry. 
Mrs S does not think that it is fair to allow Casualty & General to deduct the unpaid premium 
from the year 2021/22. She feels that it was due to Casualty & Generals unfair decision that 
she lost confidence in pet insurance and that she lost the benefits of cover for the period 
May - September. 
I understand her view, and I have sympathy for it. It is, however, reasonable for Casualty & 
General to deduct the unpaid premium from the claim settlement. This is an established 
principle of insurance and because the claim is now being met then Mrs S has benefitted 
from the period of insurance, for which the premium was due. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing to Mrs S. 
I also understand why she did not obtain alternative insurance immediately. She has 
explained that she spent considerable time researching alternative providers and that this 
caused her additional inconvenience. In addition, she would have been caused extra worry 
that M was without cover for that time, should he require any further treatment. 
I therefore slightly amend my provisional award for distress and inconvenience as I am now 
aware of more impact upon Mrs S. I think £350 is a fairer reflection of the effects upon her. 
Beyond that, I remain of the view expressed in my last provisional decision and I uphold Mrs 
Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, Casualty & General should settle Mrs Ss claims for M, in line 
with the remaining policy terms. It should add to reimbursement interest at a rate of 8% per annum. 
As there were no alternative costs of insurance for M between May 2022 and September 
2022, this is not a financial effect. 
Casualty & General should also pay to Mrs S £350 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. l
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decisions, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint 
and direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Settle Mrs Ss claims in full:
add interest to all sums reimbursed to her at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of 
expenditure up until settlement; and  
Pay to Mrs S £350 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman