DRN-3454215
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Studio Retail Limited (Studio) handled his account when he 
experienced financial difficulty.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr S and Studio. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In June 2020 Mr S had COVID-19 payment deferral applied to his account for three months 
 until September 2020. When this payment deferral came to an end Mr S needed to resume 
his minimum contractual repayments or agree a further arrangement with Studio. Studio say 
no payments were received and in October 2020 a default notice was issued to Mr S. Studio 
passed the debt over to a third party debt collection agency.
Mr S later complained to Studio as he said he was told that the debt had been written off and 
wasnt payable, but hed subsequently received debt collection letters threatening legal 
action if the debt wasnt paid. 
Studio didnt uphold the complaint and Mr S referred his complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and as Mr S didnt accept, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Im very sorry to hear about everything Mr S experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic.
When considering this complaint, my main consideration is whether or not Studio have 
treated Mr S fairly, positively and supportively when he experienced financial difficulty -
before taking the actions theyve taken here with the outstanding debt on his account. Ill 
also be considering the general service provided  including Studios communication with 
Mr S.
The COVID-19 payment deferral
The COVID-19 payment deferrals were intended as a temporary, short-term measure to help 
consumers who were experiencing a negative change in their financial circumstances 
because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Based on what Ive seen, there is some evidence that Mr S was experiencing some issues 
with managing his account prior to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. I say this because 
in a number of months preceding March 2020 (and prior to July 2020 when the deferral was 
granted) there were occasions where the minimum payment or no payment was made 
towards his outstanding balance. For example the June 2020 statement stated: 
You have been in persistent arrears for a total of three months A default notice is 
already on its way asking you to resolve the situation within 21 days 
But Mr Ss payment deferral request was applied from July 2020. This gave Mr S three 
months of breathing space where interest would continue to accrue on his account, but he 
didnt need to make repayments and fees and charges would be suspended.
Ive weighed up carefully whether approving a COVID-19 payment deferral was in Mr S best 
interest in July 2020. This is important as Studio could have proceeded with the default at 
that point based on Mr S account being three months in arrears. However, on the other side 
of this argument is the payment deferral gave Mr S three months extra breathing space to try 
and improve his financial circumstances. 
The relevant, updated Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance had been published on 
3 July 2020 - around the time Mr S had made his request. It can be found at 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/finalised-guidance-credit-cards-
coronavirus-updated-temporary-guidance-firms.pdf, but for ease Ive included some relevant 
extracts below:
1.7 This guidance applies where customers are experiencing or reasonably expect 
to experience temporary payment difficulties because of coronavirus. Where a 
customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and 
guidance in CONC 6 and 7 would continue to apply...
1.20 In determining whether a 3 month full payment deferral is obviously not in 
customers interests, firms should consider both customers need for immediate 
temporary support and the longer-term effects of a payment deferral on a customers 
situation. In particular, firms should consider customers ability to repay any accrued 
interest once the payment deferral ends, and over what period. The interest rate will 
be among the relevant considerations  
1.24 Where a 3 month full payment deferral is not considered appropriate, firms 
should without unreasonable delay, offer other ways to provide temporary relief to 
customers in accordance with treating customers fairly.  This could include a partial 
payment deferral if the loss of income is partial or a payment deferral of fewer than 3 
months if the loss of income is for a shorter period
Had Studio not approved the request it and considered other options, I find it more likely 
than not these wouldve been very limited for Mr S and in all likelihood they would have 
proceeded with recording a default on the account. I say this because Mr S was unemployed 
at this time with very restricted income. Ive also noted that Studio have told us Mr S had 
previously asked for a direct debit plan/pack to be sent  which was sent on 15 January 
2020 but they never received it back. On balance, I find it reasonable of Studio to have approved the COVID-19 payment deferral -
even if this wasnt strictly following the relevant FCA guidelines. A key point here is the 
financial services regulatory landscape was fast developing and responding to the 
challenges the pandemic was presenting at that time and businesses were having to 
respond quickly to regular changes in guidance. 
The end of the payment deferral
Mr S disputes being told the deferral period was coming to an end. Hes said:
Further to my previous emails, I would have been happy to pay the account had it 
not been settled by yourselves ; However the fact remains it was settled. Also Yes 
indeed I asked for a payment covid break and yes I was given one; However no 
contact was made regarding payments restarting at all the first I heard was from the 
parasitic debt collectors
But Im satisfied that Mr S was made aware in the account statement dated 12 September 
2020 that the payment deferral was coming to an end. The statement included the following 
prominent wording on page one:
Your payment freeze will end before your payment due date. Please make a 
payment as shown on this statement. [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman]The easiest way to pay is online in 'My Account', other ways are shown 
on the reverse of this statement. If you're still experiencing payment difficulties 
please contact us on [number redacted by Ombudsman] we can discuss some 
options with you including another payment freeze period.
Based on the evidence, Mr S didnt get in touch with Studio and a default notice was issued 
in October 2020. Its my understanding that this was based on Mr S being three months in 
arrears at the point the payment deferral was added and then when it ended he made no 
payments - meaning he was around five months in arrears at the point of it being reported. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont find it unreasonable that Studio issued a default notice 
at that point and later transferred the debt to a collections agency. But Ill return to this issue 
later in my decision. 
The communication afterwards 
Its important to note that Im only considering the actions of Studio here and not the 
collections agency. 
Mr S has told us he was given the impression that the debt had been written off by Studio. I 
can understand why Mr S possibly may have thought this - as some of the wording used in 
emails from Studio to Mr S may have caused uncertainty. For example, the use of the word 
settled when referring to the debt no longer being owned by Studio.
To give some context, generally, based on my experience, financial businesses may in very 
limited circumstances consider a full debt write off where a customer passes away. I 
understand that Mr S has pointed to sadly losing members of his family due to COVID - but 
this debt belonged to Mr S. 
Ive considered that Mr S has told us his understanding was confirmed in a phone call from 
Studio to him in 2021. But no record of an outgoing call exists that Ive seen and our Service 
have queried this on a number of occasions with Studio. Mr S was also given the opportunity 
to provide his own evidence (screenshots) of when he received the call(s) in question. Some was provided, but they were all calls from Mr S to Studio and not from around the time he 
says he was given this information. 
Studio have confirmed that the referenced email from May 2021 has been misunderstood 
and doesnt mean that the debt was being written off. Theyve told us that the debt had been 
sold on to another business. But theyve now taken the debt back in house. 
Overall, Ive seen no persuasive supporting evidence that Studio intentionally mislead Mr S 
or made a promise to write off debt on compassionate grounds. And ultimately, the debt 
remains. When Mr S raised his complaint Studio told him theyd reversed the recording of 
the default on his credit file record - but that the debt remained. Although Ive found it was 
reasonable of Studio to proceed down the default route at that time, I wont interfere with this 
as its in Mr Ss favour.
I also note that Studio positively called the debt back from the collections agency and offered 
to let Mr S enter into a repayment plan with them when the complaint was with our Service. 
Studio have since confirmed that no further fees, interest, or charges have been applied by 
them. This was a positive move on their behalf and Mr S should give some consideration to 
entering into further discussions about the outstanding debt with Studio. Our investigator 
made Mr S aware of this on 25 March 2022. This is important as its likely the debt could be 
sold again in the future. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr S, it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and Studio.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman