DRN-2685161
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) have unfairly 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted St Andrews to make a claim when they found damage to two of 
his sofas. Mr S told St Andrews the sofas had been damaged while his children were 
playing, resulting in the leg of one sofa and the arm of the other sofa being broken. St 
Andrews accepted the claim for accidental damage and sent an surveyor to view the 
damage.
St Andrews then declined the claim, as it assessed the damage was due to wear and tear. 
When Mr S and Mrs S complained to St Andrews, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim. It said its surveyor had confirmed there was no damage caused by a heavy impact to 
suggest a child had jumped or leaned on the sofa. It said Mr S and Mrs S could send their 
own report if they wanted St Andrews to assess this again.
When Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said it was reasonable for St Andrews to decline the claim on the basis of 
wear and tear following the surveyors assessment of the damage.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr S and Mrs S, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy wording. This said accidental damage was:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
The policy also contained a specific exclusion for wear and tear, which is common in 
insurance policies.
Im aware that Mr S and Mrs S have said their children told them what happened to the sofa 
and didnt see it happen themselves. Mr S and Mrs S didnt provide St Andrews with any 
expert evidence about the cause of the damage.
When St Andrews surveyor inspected the damage to both sofas, he said:
the arm cushions to both sofas have sunk, but there appeared to be no frame damage, 
which we would have expected from the reported peril  The seat cushions were displaying 
no sign of heavy impact such as a teenage child jumping on them  The legs to one sofa 
have collapsed slightly, but are still attached to the frame, which again, shows no damage.
The surveyor also described the sofa as in poor condition and said he thought the damage 
was more likely due to wear and tear. The surveyor also took photos and a video of the 
damage, which I also looked at.
Ive also taken into account Mr S and Mrs Ss explanation of what their children told them 
had happened. Nonetheless, based on the surveyors assessment, which took into account 
the specific damage to the sofa, as well as its overall condition, I think it was reasonable for 
St Andrews to decide the damage was due to wear and tear, rather than accidental 
damage. As a result, I dont require St Andrews to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman