DRN-4281652
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges applied by HSBC UK Bank Plc when he used his debit card 
and withdrew cash whilst abroad.
 
What happened
In early 2023 Mr M travelled abroad for medical care. Mr Ms explained that he wasnt aware 
that HSBC would charge him for using his debit card or withdrawing cash in a foreign 
currency whilst abroad. 
HSBC applied charges totalling £897.30 in relation to payments Mr M made using his debit 
card and cash withdrawals. Mr M went on to raise a complaint with HSBC and it issued a 
final response on 23 May 2023. HSBC didnt agree it had made a mistake and said the 
charges applied were in line with terms and conditions of Mr Ms account. HSBCs final 
response added Mr M had told its staff he didnt check about potential charges or tell it 
before travelling abroad and using his bank card. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought HSBC had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and applied the charges in line with its 
terms and conditions. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M asked to 
appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand Mr M had to travel abroad for an extended period to receive medical treatment 
and used his debit card to pay. Mr M also used his debit card to access cash as well. For 
both transactions, HSBC applied charges when Mr M used his card. Ill start by saying Ive 
checked the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account with HSBC which form the basis of the 
agreement on how his account works. The terms say HSBC will apply a 2.75% fee when 
making a debit card payment in a foreign currency. The terms also say HSBC will apply a 
cash handling fee when withdrawing cash in a foreign currency whilst abroad. HSBC has 
provided evidence to show all the fees Mr M incurred and Im satisfied they were correctly 
applied  in line with the terms and conditions. 
When bringing his complaint, Mr M explained he wasnt aware of the charges before 
travelling abroad. And Mr Ms advised there were alternative accounts and services available 
which couldve saved him money whilst abroad. I take Mr Ms point, but HSBC wasnt aware 
he was travelling abroad or how long hed be away. And theres nothing to show Mr M 
checked with HSBC before he left the UK to see whether any fees or charges would be 
incurred by using his account in the way he did. Had Mr M checked, I think its more likely 
than not HSBCs staff wouldve told him about the charges for using his card overseas. 
Ive looked at the information HSBC provides about the fees and charges it applies. I 
understand the terms and conditions are lengthy and the foreign transaction fees form part 
of a larger document. But HSBC also issues a tariff of charges setting out all the fees it may 
charge for using an account. The tariff of charges is a short document and includes the 
charges HSBC applies when making a debit card payment or withdrawing cash in a foreign 
currency. HSBC has also explained that it issues an annual Statement of Fees which gives 
details of charges it can apply. In addition, HSBCs website contains full details of the fees it 
charges customers for operating their account whilst abroad. 
So, whilst I accept Mr M wasnt specifically notified before he left the UK and went on to use 
his bank card, Im satisfied HSBC made the information available in a number of places and 
that it clearly explains the circumstances under which charges will be applied. 
In response to the investigator, Mr M pointed out there mayve been more suitable accounts 
available that wouldve led to lower charges. But as HSBC wasnt aware of Mr Ms need to 
travel abroad and use his account to pay for medical expenses, Im not persuaded it couldve 
been aware there were other accounts that wouldve potentially been suitable for Mr Ms 
circumstances. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but as I havent been persuaded that HSBC unfairly or 
incorrectly applied charges when he used his debit card or withdrew cash in a foreign 
currency whilst overseas, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman