DRN-1800586
The complaint
Mr P says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as Moneyboat.co.uk (Moneyboat), 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan Moneyboat provided to Mr P in July 2019. Details of Mr Ps 
lending history, as evidenced by Moneyboat, is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayments
1 03/07/2019 30/09/2019 6 £800.00 £244.94 
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ps complaint and felt Moneyboat had lent to him 
responsibly, so she didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P disagreed so, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
why I think Moneyboats checks were proportionate for Mr Ps loan
Mr Ps loan was for £800.00 and he needed to pay this back in monthly instalments of 
£244.94. Ive seen a record of the information Mr P provided when he completed his loan 
application. Mr P said he had a monthly income of £1,872.00 and monthly expenses of 
£957.00. So, after deducting his regular monthly outgoings he was left with a disposable 
income of £915.00 per month. So, it looked like he had enough money to make his 
repayments under this loan agreement. 
Mr P says he had other outstanding loans at the time and that as a result this loan was 
unaffordable for him. Mr P has provided some bank statements to show that he had several 
other loans at the time. Mr P says Moneyboat shouldve known this from their affordability 
checks and shouldve then decided not to lend to him. Ive seen the information Moneyboat 
had when deciding whether to lend to Mr P. It had the information Mr P declared about his 
income and expenditure and a credit report which was obtained in July 2019. This report 
showed that Mr P had two other unsecured loans at the time Mr P applied for this loan with 
Moneyboat. But the information doesnt make it clear these were short term loans, and there 
is no information about any defaults or rollovers on these loans. I have seen evidence of 
another credit report which was obtained in November 2019. This shows evidence of a 
number of other loans Mr P took out in June 2019, but these loans didnt show up on the 
report Moneyboat conducted in July 2019. This is likely to be because there is often around 
a six week delay in new entries being shown on a person credit report. Moneyboat did not 
have Mr Ps bank statements when deciding whether to lend to him, and for only one loan I 
dont think it was proportionate for it to ask for these.  
So, there was nothing in the report Moneyboat obtained to raise any concern. I havent seen 
any evidence or other information that Moneyboat collected at the time that shows its likely it 
was made aware of any financial problems Mr P mightve been having. Or anything that 
wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Ps circumstances further. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Moneyboat to rely on the information it obtained.
Overall, I think Moneyboat carried out proportionate checks of Mr Ps circumstances before 
agreeing to the lending. And from the information it had at the time, there was nothing to 
suggest Mr P was in severe financial difficult or that this loan would not be affordable for him. It is of course possible that had Mr P taken further lending then Moneyboat, as a reasonable 
lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But considering 
Mr P hadnt taken out any prior loans with Moneyboat, I dont think it had yet reached the 
stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this information or 
enquiring into his wider financial circumstances. But at this stage in the lending relationship I 
think its decision to lend to Mr P was reasonable. 
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Mr P, but I want to assure 
him that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman