DRN-1189731
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc reduced the interest rate on his Classic Plus account, 
even though it had indicated that it wouldn't do so.
What happened
In April 2018 TSB migrated to a new IT platform. Things didn't go as well as the bank had 
planned, and many of its customers had difficulty accessing their accounts and making and 
receiving payments. TSB took a number of steps to try to resolve those problems, including 
increasing the interest rate on its Classic Plus from 3% to 5% a year, subject to certain 
criteria being fulfilled. Mr F's account qualified for the increase. 
At the time of the IT problems, TSB explained in media interviews and elsewhere what it was 
doing to help its customers. In a radio interview in April 2018 its chief executive explained 
that the interest rate on the Classic Plus account would increase to 5% a year and said that 
the rate wouldn't change and that it was "...there for good".
Shortly after that TSB wrote to customers to confirm that the interest rate would be increased 
and promised that the new rate wouldn't be taken away after a year. The rate was increased 
on 1 May 2018. 
In April 2019 TSB wrote to Mr F to say that the interest rate would change from 5% to 3% a 
year with effect from 2 July 2019. Mr F didn't think that was fair; he said that the statements 
made by the chief executive a year before amounted to a change in the account terms such 
that the interest rate was fixed at 5%. 
TSB said that the terms made it clear that the rate was variable and that it had changed it in 
line with those terms, providing proper notice of the change. Mr F referred the matter to this 
service, where our investigator ultimately concluded that TSB had acted fairly. Mr F asked 
that an ombudsman review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F appears to accept that the written terms of the account permitted TSB to change the 
interest rate, as long as it gave proper notice of its intention to do so. The account wasn't 
marketed as a fixed rate account, either indefinitely or for a fixed period. Mr F's case is 
rather that the events around April 2018 amounted to a promise to change those conditions 
and to keep the interest rate at 5% a year. 
I can understand Mr F's argument here. A statement that a rate will apply "for good" may 
well suggest that it won't be changed as long as the account is available. However, that 
statement needs to be taken in the context of events at the time and terms and conditions 
which clearly said that the rate was variable. Whilst a chief executive or other bank officer might from time to time announce changes to products in media appearances, I don't believe 
that the statement in April 2018 could properly be interpreted as a change in the account 
terms - either for all eligible customers or for those who heard the interview. Customers 
would generally expect to receive notification of changes in writing, not through the media.
In fact, TSB did tell customers in writing about the change shortly afterwards. That 
communication explained that the 5% interest rate wouldn't be changed after a year - 
contrasting TSB's offer with those on other accounts which routinely fix interest rates for 12 
months. 
TSB did, as Mr F says, promise that it wouldn't change the rate after a year. But it kept to 
that promise; it changed the rate after 14 months. I can see why Mr F might have expected 
TSB to have kept the higher rate for longer, but in my view it did keep the promise it made. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I don't require TSB Bank plc to 
resolve Mr F's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman