DRN-4233839
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly made a 
fraud finding about a claim she made under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S contacted RSA to make a claim for storm damage to part of her home. RSA sent a 
surveyor and also investigated the claim further. It then declined the claim and voided the 
policy on the basis of fraud, as it said Ms S had deliberately claimed for pre-existing damage 
to the property.
When Ms S complained, RSA replied and said it was satisfied it had fairly applied the fraud 
condition and that it maintained its decision to void the policy. So, Ms S complained to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said RSAs decision was 
reasonable based on the information available to it about the condition of the property.
As Ms S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
RSA decided Ms Ss claim was fraudulent because it said she had claimed for pre-existing 
damage. RSA provided the evidence it based its decision on, so I have reviewed this, along 
with the evidence provided by Ms S.
RSAs investigation report showed that its suspicion rating was high. The rating in the fraud 
report indicated that it would only make a fraud finding and void a policy where it made a 
finding of confirmed fraud. Our investigator asked RSA why it voided the policy, given it 
didnt seem to have decided it was confirmed fraud. RSA said: With regards to the 
comments made about "high suspicion" rather than "confirmed fraud", there is no clear 
reason for this. I can only assume this was an admin error but as this is so long ago I cannot 
be certain. So, I dont currently think RSA has shown it decided the claim had reached the 
required standard to make a fraud finding and void the policy. However, Ive looked at what 
happened in more detail to see whether, overall, RSA made a fair decision.
RSAs records said that Ms S called to advise that during the bad weather a few days ago 
some concrete has blown off the wall of the property on the corner on the side of the house. 
When RSA sent a surveyor, the surveyor made a voice note of his visit. This said:
 after some bad weather in the area [Ms S] has come out and found some of the render 
off the front of the property on the corner has come away and after that date, other cracks 
and render seems to be sort of appearing and coming away from the front wall of the 
property. There is a little bit of some historical damage to the bay window, which she said 
was there previously. Shes had a couple of people come and look at this and shes had one 
estimate for about £800 at this moment in time. So, the point of claim here is for any damage 
caused by storm externally. 
In the voice note, the surveyor then asked Ms S whether she had lived at the property for 
about 20 years, which she confirmed was correct. She also confirmed that shed never had 
any work done to the outside of the property, but that her father might have done. Im aware 
the surveyor asked if the voice note was a fair summary and Ms S agreed it was.
Ive also looked at the surveyors report. This included photos, which clearly showed a range 
of damage to the front of the house. The circumstances of the claim were summarised as:
The surveyor has met with the customer who has advised that the bad weather within the 
area has caused damage to the render on the property. The render has started to come 
away and has since started to crack further. There is some historical damage to the area 
around the bay window. The customer would like to claim for any damage caused externally 
by a storm event.
The report then further described the external damage:
The customer has advised that the paintwork around the front bay window has recently 
started to come away. Below this area, some of the render has also come away and the 
customer has advised that the cracks below the upstairs window have recently appeared. 
However, the surveyor has checked [online images] and the cracks underneath the upstairs 
window are clearly evident back in November 2020. All of the reported damage would have 
been visible prior to the claim being reported and the customer will have been aware of 
these issues. The surveyor advises that the damaged areas have been on-going for a period 
of time.
So, Ive thought about the surveyors findings. I dont think the voice note explains whether 
what was described was part of the claim or a general discussion about the condition of the 
property. The surveyors report also included details that werent in the voice note and I 
havent currently seen evidence Ms S said she was claiming for issues such as the bay 
window or damage to the upstairs window.
I also listened to the phone call between Ms S and RSAs investigator. During this call, I 
didnt hear Ms S say she was claiming for the front of the house and she also wasnt asked 
whether this was the case. I also note that whenever Ms S directly described the damage 
she was claiming for, she said it was on the side of the house. This included when she first 
made the claim and when she followed up with RSA following receipt of the voidance letter. 
However, when the surveyor and the investigator described it, they discussed the damage to 
the front of the house.
Based on what Ive currently seen, Im not persuaded RSA has shown it was reasonable for 
it to make a fraud finding. The front of the property seemed to have a range of pre-existing 
issues, but I havent currently seen evidence Ms S was claiming for that damage, given she 
described the issue as being with the side of the building. 
So, having thought about this carefully, I currently intend to uphold this complaint because I 
dont think RSA has shown Ms S was claiming for pre-existing damage. As a result, I 
currently intend to uphold this complaint and say RSA should remove all references to fraud 
from internal and external databases. It should also reinstate the policy and continue to 
consider the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, if Ms S wants 
RSA to do so. I also think Ms S has been caused inconvenience and concern about how her 
claim has been handled. So, I also intend to say that RSA should pay Ms S £200 
compensation to acknowledge this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 5 July 2023. Ms S didnt reply.
RSA replied with some further documents and comments, which I have summarised as 
follows:
It questioned why Ms S hadnt raised any concerns at the complaint stage about the 
surveyor not correctly capturing images of the damage to the property and why there 
werent any images of the damage to the side of the property.
It failed to see how there could be damage to the side of the property, as it was well 
shielded by the neighbouring property.
It provided some online images going back to 2014 and an image taken by the surveyor 
and said the only damage it could see was to side render.
It said that if there was damage to the side of the property, it would have expected Ms S 
to have highlighted that damage and the attending surveyor surely would have taken 
images.
It highlighted that it had issued a challenge letter highlighting inconsistencies during the 
survey and didnt receive a response from Ms S. It also sent a chaser, which Ms S also 
didnt comment on.
It said Ms S had been presented with several opportunities but had failed to provide any 
reasonable evidence that supported her arguments.
When the policy was voided, Ms S made a formal complaint, but still didnt provide any 
evidence to show RSAs approach or inspection was flawed or there was any damage to 
the property that had been missed by the surveyor during his visit.
For it to invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, it needed to demonstrate it 
was more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed the evidence, 
it felt it had conducted a fair and reasonable review of the claim.
Its investigator could have been more explicit during the interview stage when asking the 
location of the damage, but all the evidence did seem to indicate that on balance the 
damage the insured was referring to was the concrete render as shown in the images it 
provided.  It couldnt be anything else as the rest was brick work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that, I have thought about the further comments and documents provided by RSA, 
as well as looking again at what I considered when I made my provisional decision. This 
included the evidence gathered by RSAs surveyor and investigator. I also looked at things 
like online images going back several years to see what these showed. I have considered all 
of this again in order to make my final decision.
In my provisional decision, I explained that it wasnt clear where all of the information had 
come from, including because there were details in the surveyors report that werent in the 
voice note. This still hasnt been explained. 
In the challenge letter, sent by RSAs investigator, it said  you told me that following some 
bad weather you had noticed that concrete had broken away from the front of the house. 
This is the first time this had happened and you confirmed that in the 20 years you had lived 
at the property there had not been any need for any previous repairs and no routine 
maintenance had been completed.I have also listened again to the phone call between Ms S and RSAs investigator. Ms S said 
concrete had broken away outside, she didnt say it was from the front of the house. The 
investigator didnt ask where the claimed for damage was located. The investigator also 
asked if routine maintenance has been carried out at the property and Ms S said yes. I 
note the challenge letter said Ms S had said no routine maintenance had been carried out. I 
didnt hear Ms S say there had been no need for previous repairs at the property and, for 
example, during the call she discussed a crack in the bathroom. Im also aware the surveyor 
reported that although Ms S said she hadnt carried out maintenance at the property, she 
said her father might have done so. Ms S also told the investigator that she hadnt lived at 
the property for the whole 20-year period and that she wasnt aware of everything that 
happened while she was absent. 
The investigator also told Ms S there was evidence of previous claims, which she said RSA 
was unaware of and needed to be looked into before the claim could be taken any further. 
During the call, the investigator didnt say there were concerns about the damage claimed 
for or what those concerns were. When the challenge letter was issued, the letter raised 
concerns about the damage claimed for, but this inaccurately reported what was discussed 
during the phone call. Im aware Ms S didnt respond to the letters. However, she contacted 
RSA after the policy had been voided. Ms S explained her understanding of the deadline for 
response and why she hadnt replied and that her family had been unwell. In that call, Ms S 
also said the damage was to the side of the property.
Although Ms S could have done more to engage with the claim, she explained why she 
hadnt done so. It also didnt mean that the allegations put to her were therefore true, 
particularly as the challenge letter inaccurately reported what the investigator had discussed 
with Ms S.
Having thought about this again, I still havent seen evidence that persuades me RSA has 
shown Ms S was claiming for pre-existing damage and that it was therefore reasonable for it 
to conclude that her claim was more likely than not fraudulent. As a result, I remain of the 
view that RSA should remove all references to fraud from internal and external databases. It 
should also reinstate the policy and continue to consider the claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, if Ms S wants RSA to do so. I also think Ms S has been 
caused inconvenience and concern about how her claim has been handled. So, I also 
require RSA to pay Ms S £200 compensation to acknowledge this.
Putting things right
RSA should remove all references to fraud from internal and external databases, reinstate 
the policy and continue to consider the claim, if Ms S wants to continue with it. RSA should 
also pay Ms S £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Remove all references to fraud in relation to this claim from internal and external 
databases.
Reinstate the policy.
Continue to consider the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, if Ms S wants Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do so.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman