DRN-4408939
The complaint
Mr G and Ms O have complained about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) They are not 
happy that it turned down a claim under their home emergency insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to IPA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G and Ms O made a claim under their home emergency insurance policy as they had a 
problem with their toilet. IPA sent its agent to have a look at the problem, but it turned down 
the claim as the small leak from the cistern wasnt leaking externally but into the toilet bowl, 
so it wasnt causing any damage or classed as an emergency. 
When Mr G and Ms O complained to IPA about this it explained that the claim wasnt 
classed as an emergency and so it wasnt covered under the policy. But Mr G and Ms O 
remained unhappy, so they complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. He agreed that 
as the small leak was contained in the toilet and not leaking externally that IPA hadnt acted 
unfairly. 
As Mr G and Ms O didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that I dont think IPA has acted unreasonably in 
turning down the claim. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G and Ms O, but Ill 
explain why. 
The policy Mr G and Ms O took out with IPA was a home emergency insurance policy and 
the general aim of these policies is to help people with an emergency situation in the home 
(such as a burst pipe). Mr G has maintained that as there was a problem with his toilet, that 
was covered under the policy, that IPA should repair the toilet. But the intention of the policy 
is to cover emergency situations and the claim Mr G and Ms O have made isnt classed as 
an emergency.
I accept that the small leak (which I understand was intermittent when IPAs engineer 
attended) would be inconvenient and would require repair at some point. But that doesnt 
mean the small leak would be classed as an emergency. I say this as the leak was 
completely contained at the time of claim and only leaked into the toilet bowl. And although 
the drip or leak may well have got worse if left it wasnt an emergency. Mr G or Ms O could 
simply have called a plumber and asked them to attend at a convenient time.
If the toilet was failing, to the extent that there was an external leak causing damage to Mr G 
and Ms Os property, then IPA would have undertaken the necessary repair to prevent 
further damage. I know Mr G has outlined that if the problem is left unattended for a 
significant period of time then the position would deteriorate and that may well be the case. 
But the policy doesnt set out to cover this eventuality as a plumber could have been called 
to fix the problem, which has probably been caused by simple wear and tear, at a convenient 
time as opposed to requiring an emergency call out. 
The policy wording makes it clear that it covers claims as a result of a sudden and 
unforeseen incident in your home, which immediately... 
i) Exposes you or a third party to a risk to their health or;
ii) Creates a risk of loss or damage to your home and/or any of your belongings or;
iii) Renders your home uninhabitable
So, I dont think IPA has acted unfairly here in declining the claim as it is clear that the 
circumstances Mr G and Ms O faced dont fit with this.
I note Mr G has said that he wasnt fully aware of how the policy worked (on an emergency 
basis) and just felt his toilet would be covered. He has quoted from the Insurance Product 
Information Document which summarises the cover provided which states that a toilet failure 
is covered. But I dont think the toilet fully failed in this instance and earlier on in the 
documentation Mr G and Ms O was provided with it summarises that This policy meets the 
needs of a customer who wants cover for emergency call outs, labour and parts for typically 
a temporary repair when something in the home goes wrong (i.e. central heating breaks 
down, burst pipes).
Given all of this, I dont think IPA has acted unfairly and I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. It sent an engineer to Mr G and Ms Os property, but it decided the problem with the 
cistern wasnt covered and clearly explained why and I dont think this was unreasonable. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman