DRN-4473742
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) retained his debit card at a cash machine 
and provided poor customer service when he phoned it to resolve the problem.
What happened
In March 2023 Mr A tried to withdraw cash from a cash machine but couldnt, and his debit 
card was retained. Later that day Mr A rang and spoke to an HSBC adviser. He requested a 
new card and also wanted to know why his card was retained. 
 
Mr A then made a complaint to HSBC and said he was put in the embarrassing position of 
having to borrow money for day to day necessities. Mr A was also unhappy about how his 
query was dealt with by the HSBC adviser, in particular with some of the questions he was 
asked, with the advisers refusal to provide his name and office details and the advisers 
failure to put him through to a manager. Mr A also made a subject access request (SAR). 
 
HSBC responded to Mr As complaint and acknowledged it made an error when it retained 
his debit card, which was due to a system issue. It also said the HSBC adviser made errors 
on the phone call when he spoke over Mr A and was reluctant to provide his name and office 
address. HSBC also said a manager didnt phone Mr A as promised and the times Mr A was 
put on hold were excessive. HSBC apologised and offered Mr A £200 compensation. 
But HSBC didnt uphold Mr As complaint about the HSBC adviser asking Mr A for the last 
four digits of his debit card, for asking why he wanted to speak to a manager and for saying 
no manager was immediately available. HSBC told Mr A it would need to confirm some 
details with him in order to finalise his SAR, so it asked him to phone it. 
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. He said he had no access 
to his cash for six days. He asked that HSBC acknowledge its errors and provide him with 
compensation appropriate to its shortcomings and the inconveniences he suffered. Mr A also 
provided our Investigator with the outcome of an investigation carried out by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) in relation to the SAR he had submitted to HSBC.  
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC needed to take any further action in relation to Mr As 
complaint, as she thought the compensation already awarded was fair. Mr A didnt agree 
with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision.
 
I contacted HSBC in relation to Mr As complaint about the SAR, as I could see that HSBC 
hadnt been given the opportunity to look into this matter before it was brought to this 
Service. HSBC didnt consent to this being looked into as part of this complaint.  
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2023 and said my decision would not 
address the complaint point raised by Mr A about the SAR. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond. Mr A responded and requested a separate complaint be raised about 
the SAR. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to clarify that although our Investigator looked into Mr As complaint about 
the SAR, I will not be addressing that issue here. HSBC has said it wants to investigate this 
particular complaint point before this Service looks into it, and it is entitled to do this. So if Mr 
A wants to pursue this, and he has confirmed that he does, then a complaint will need to be 
raised with HSBC in the first instance, and it can then be brought to this Service if he is 
unhappy with the outcome. 
When Mr A brought his complaint to this Service he asked that we consider awarding 
compensation appropriate to HSBCs shortcomings. But this Service doesnt punish 
businesses for errors or shortcomings  thats the role of the regulator. What we do is look at 
the impact that any errors had on the consumer and look to award fair compensation for any 
distress or inconvenience caused. 
 
HSBC has acknowledged that a system error caused Mr As card to be retained. It has also 
agreed that the adviser he spoke to could have provided better customer service. And this is 
why it has awarded £200 compensation. So Ive looked at whether I think further 
compensation should be awarded. 
Mr A was undoubtedly inconvenienced when his card was retained and he had to borrow 
money for day to day expenses. I note that there are ways that Mr A could potentially have 
accessed cash from his bank account even without his debit card, and I have taken this into 
consideration when looking at the amount of compensation awarded. Having said that, while 
this might have meant he didnt need to borrow money, theres no doubt he would still have 
been inconvenienced as he would have had to make alternative arrangements to access his 
money. So I think its fair that he was compensated for this inconvenience. 
I listened to the call Mr A had with the HSBC adviser and I can see why he found elements 
of the call frustrating. For instance, he was put on hold several times so that the adviser 
could order a new card for him and when the adviser returned each time, Mr A was told the 
card hadnt yet been ordered. And a manager should have phoned Mr A back but didnt.
 
There were elements of the service provided by the adviser that Mr A felt went badly but, I 
think that, for instance, being asked for the last four digits of the withheld card number was 
an innocuous question  I think its the case that some people would remember these digits 
and it was reasonable for the adviser to check if this was the case. I also think that its the 
case that many businesses are set up in such a way that managers are not always 
immediately available, and if HSBC is set up in this way then this is a business decision that 
it is allowed to make and that I am not going to interfere with. 
Taking everything into consideration I think that the £200 compensation already awarded by 
HSBC for the inconvenience caused to Mr A by having his card retained and the frustration 
caused by the poor customer service is fair. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr A, but I am not asking HSBC to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I am not asking HSBC Bank UK Plc to take any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman