DRN-3434403
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One is holding him 
responsible for a credit card account that he never applied for.
What happened
Mr K says he has been the victim of identity theft. A credit card was taken out in his name 
and used for spending. The address, phone number and email on the account werent the 
same as his.
Capital One said it wouldnt be upholding his complaint. It had received an application from 
Mr K for a credit card account on 16 June 2021. And it had spoken to him about it that day to 
confirm he had been approved. He had registered for the mobile app and received one-time 
passcodes to his genuine mobile number. Spending had been made using the card from 
June 2021 and statements sent to his address. That address and the mobile number had 
been changed through the app on 7 August 2021 by one digit for each. And Mr K had then 
raised a claim of identity theft. He had provided it with information he said showed he had 
applied for a current account only. But it didnt accept that he hadnt applied for the credit 
card and shouldnt have to repay the borrowing.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Capital One 
had provided evidence of the application for the credit card. All the initial information 
matched to that of Mr K apart from the email address he has since given. He had seen that 
the account was activated using his phone. And that statements were initially sent to his 
correct address on 2 July 2021 and 2 August 2021. Hed seen a log showing that the 
address and mobile number changes were made in the app on 7 August 2021. He knew that 
Mr K said he had proof of an online bank account through the same online platform. But that 
didnt rule out him having a credit card account too. He said that the caller on 16 June 2021 
sounded the same as the genuine Mr K whod called on 11 August 2021 to make the 
complaint.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. He insisted that he had only 
applied for a current account. He provided text messages he said proved this. His credit 
score was too low to take a credit card and such a card wouldnt have been mentioned in the 
call recording. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has complained about identity theft. Im unclear whether he accepts or not that he did 
call about the application on 16 June 2021. But the person on the call from Capital One 
confirmed that the application had been approved, that a card would be sent out and that the 
card limit was £200. The person Capital One says was Mr K asked when he could use the 
account and was told he would need to wait for the card and then register it to the app or call 
about it. He was told that an email with the username for the account would be sent.
Everything the person in that call said corresponded to the application that had been made 
for the card account that day. I dont have access to expert voice analysis, but I agree that 
the person that day sounds like the genuine Mr K who later called to report identity theft. 
Before that date his genuine phone number was used to receive codes to register for and 
use the app online. I can see from a log of online activity that the card PIN was viewed 
online on 21 June 2021. The first payment with the card was made the next day and money 
wasnt taken as quickly as possible as might be expected in a fraud. Statements were sent 
to his home address. And notably the address on the card account and mobile phone 
number were changed using the app on 7 August 2021, a few days before the fraud was 
reported. And only by a couple of digits. 
I read little into Mr K since giving a different email address or that he says he also had an 
online bank account. I cant see how his identity could have been separately stolen in all 
these circumstances to apply for a credit card he knew nothing about. Im afraid I think it is 
most likely he made this application and so is fairly responsible for the card account. And 
that Capital One didnt act unfairly in expecting him to repay the money and contacting him 
about it.
So, I know he will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Capital One to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman