DRN-3774931
The complaint
Mr H complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund him for transactions he said 
he didnt make.
What happened
On 13 May 2021, two transactions to the same merchant debited Mr Hs Santander account. 
One was for £1,640 at 10:38 am and the other for £1,910 at 10:53 am.
On 16 May, Mr H rang Santander. He said he hadnt made those two transactions. He said 
hed lost his phone and had reported that to the police. Santander refused to refund him, and 
Mr H complained. 
In the complaint call, Mr H told Santander that hed been drugged, though he said he hadnt 
told the police that, only that his phone had been stolen. Santander told him that reporting 
his registered phone as stolen didnt show how it had been compromised  because the 
phone used biometric face recognition to unlock it. Santander confirmed this in its final 
response, pointing out that the payments had been made from Mr Hs registered device 
which had previously been used for genuine banking activity.
Mr H didnt agree and contacted this service.
He told our investigator that hed been out with work colleagues whod been with him until 
2am on 13 May. When his colleagues left, Mr H talked to two other men and had a couple of 
drinks with them. He said he thought that was when hed been drugged because he had no 
memory of what happened for about 10 hours after that. When he recovered he found his 
phone and watch had been stolen, and he asked people around him to help, and someone 
ordered him a taxi home. 
Mr H said that to access his phone, he had face identification and a passcode, which he 
hadnt shared with anyone, but he didnt know what happened when hed been drugged. To 
show hed bought a replacement phone, Mr H sent copies of invoices for a phone ordered on 
16 May, which he said hed then returned, and for a phone ordered on 9 June. Mr H said he 
hadnt made purchases like this in the past, and he thought Santander should have had had 
systems in place to stop or verify the transactions. Mr H also said that his other bank 
account, with the card in the same wallet, hadnt been compromised, but a transaction had 
been attempted then stopped on his cryptocurrency account. He said hed needed mental 
health help as a result.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She pointed out that biometric data had 
been used for the transactions. She also said there was a long time between when Mr H 
said hed been drugged at 2:00am and when the transactions had happened at 10:38 and 
10:53. It wasnt likely a fraudster would wait so long before trying to use Mr Hs phone. Mr H 
had also said hed had another card registered on his phone, as well as his Santander one, 
but no-one had tried to take money on that. There had also been £4,800 left in Mr Hs 
account after the disputed payments, which the investigator said wasnt what a fraudster 
would do.
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He sent a long email, including the following points:
- The investigator hadnt commented on the fact that Mr H had said someone had also 
tried to access an account he had with a cryptocurrency platform;
- He didnt know why the fraudsters hadnt taken money from his non-Santander 
account for which there had also been a card in his wallet at the time. Nor did he 
know why the fraudsters hadnt emptied his Santander account which had still had 
£4,800 in it;
- He didnt agree that the investigator had said it was odd that the transactions had 
been some hours after Mr H had been drugged. Mr H said that once he was drugged, 
the attackers might have been trying to get information from him, such as his phone 
password, which might have taken them hours;
- The transactions had been done through Mr Hs phones mobile payment service, 
and that could have been done by entering Mr Hs phone password. Mr H said 
Santander had never provided him with evidence to show that biometrics had been 
used;
- The cost of the mental health sessions and a new phone were probably more than 
the amount which had been stolen from him, and why would he go through all that if 
he wasnt telling the truth? 
Mr H said that it was clear he was a victim of the attack and he wanted the funds stolen from 
him to be returned. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in May 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Santander) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the computer evidence that 
Mr Hs genuine card with the genuine chip, was used. So the disputed payments were 
authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
The payments were made using Mr Hs registered device, which was accessed using Mr Hs 
face ID biometrics. Mr H said that his phone was stolen, but that doesnt explain how any 
thief could have used Mr Hs face ID to unlock the phone. Nor does it explain how any thief 
could have known Mr Hs passcode to carry out the actual transactions. 
I recognise that Mr H said he was drugged, and he said that the people drugging him may 
have been asking him what his passcode was. Our investigator had commented that it was a 
long time between when Mr H said hed been drugged at 2:00am, and when the transactions 
had happened at 10:38 am and 10:53 am. She said it wasnt likely a fraudster would wait so 
long before trying to use Mr Hs phone. Mr H replied to this by saying that it could have 
taken them hours to obtain the information from him, and queried the investigators 
knowledge of the drug he said had been used on him.But if Mr H had been drugged so severely that he was unaware of anything that was going 
on, I think its unlikely his face ID would have successfully passed the biometric matching 
test. I also think that if Mr H had been drugged to such an extent that he wasnt aware of 
what was happening, its also unlikely that hed have been able to remember his passcode 
and reply accurately to fraudsters questions about what it was. Its most unlikely that 
fraudsters could have guessed the code, because there are 10,000 possible combinations of 
a four digit number. 
Ive also considered other parts of the situation Mr H described. If fraudsters were so 
determined to access his phone and Santander card that they were prepared to wait hours 
after drugging him, in order to try and obtain his passcode from him, there are other issues. 
Mr H said he had a card for his account with another provider  but he said nothing was 
taken from that account. And there had also been £4,800 left in Mr Hs account after the 
disputed payments, which again wasnt what a fraudster would do.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the 
transactions himself.
Finally, Mr H was unhappy because the investigator hadnt commented on the fact that Mr H 
had said someone had also tried to access an account he had with a cryptocurrency 
platform. But whatever happened to an account which Mr H had with a cryptocurrency 
platform, on a different occasion, isnt relevant to whether or not Mr H authorised the 
Santander transactions himself. The other card in his wallet that night wasnt related to a 
cryptocurrency platform. And in any case, what matters for this decision is whether or not 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably when it refused to refund him for the disputed 
transactions. For the reasons above, I find that it did act fairly and reasonably when deciding 
not to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman