DRN-3352136
The complaint
Mr J complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
Mr J took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableDate repaid
January 
2019£5,000 48 months £230.74 £11,075.52 October 2019
When Mr J complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold the complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think Everyday 
Loans should have provided the loan. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what 
Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed. It mainly said that Mr J was stuck in a payday loan cycle and 
persistently in overdraft as a result. Mr J had said he would use the loan for debt 
consolidation  in other words, to repay other debt and Everyday Loans said this would 
improve his financial situation and leave him with disposable income each month. Everyday 
Loans also said that the expenditure it saw on his bank statements was likely higher given 
the time of year.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I think agree with the conclusion our adjudicator 
came to. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr J about his income and expenses  including what he spent on 
his credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand his credit history and 
find out about his existing credit commitments and it reviewed bank statements provided by 
Mr J. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Js average monthly take home pay was around £2,441. 
Everyday Loans allowed for Mr Js monthly rent costing £460 and also took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Js likely spending. In addition, it 
allowed for a buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional 
expenses. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans affordability assessment showed that Mr J likely needed to 
spend some £2,731 each month  which was more than his income. But it took into account 
that Mr J said he planned to use the loan provided by Everyday Loans to repay three named 
creditors. Everyday Loans worked out this should save him more than £800 each month and 
so put him in a position where he would have around £317 spare cash left after paying for 
everything instead of a monthly shortfall.
This led Everyday Loans to conclude that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr J. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr J should have had enough disposable 
income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised 
this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information it had gathered. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Mr J wasnt managing his money well and he was already 
struggling financially, stuck in overdraft and, at the time, £100 or so over his £1,200 agreed 
overdraft limit. It was clear that he was already over-reliant on credit he couldnt afford 
without borrowing further to pay for it. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. 
Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Mr J used the loan as it paid the loan balance 
direct to him. Having seen the extent of Mr Js money problems, I think it shouldve been 
apparent that there was a real risk he would use the loan to meet his immediate and most 
pressing financial demands. 
And even if Mr J had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Everyday 
Loans had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his 
outstanding indebtedness overall and reliance on using credit. I think its also fair to say that, 
even with the planned debt consolidation, Mr J would still need to pay such a significant 
portion of his income towards credit  by my reckoning, well over a third - Everyday Loans 
shouldve realised that Mr J would likely struggle to repay this loan sustainably over the loan 
term.So all the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant 
reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr J. I believe that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that 
this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mr J and recognised that it shouldnt have provided 
it. So Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr J received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr J made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr J having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Whilst its fair that Mr Js credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Js credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman