DRN-2965503
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) didnt 
carry out affordability checks. If it had done so, it wouldve seen she had a number of loans 
outstanding and a low credit score. 
What happened
Ms R took two loans from Savvy between June and September 2015. A summary of her 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Savvy can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
repaymentslargest 
repayment
1 £800.00 03/06/2015 04/09/2015 12 £133.33
2 £750.00 07/09/2015 16/10/2016 18 £68.76
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Rs complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint. He said, 
Savvy had carried out proportionate checks and Ms R had clarified her credit file with it on 
two application calls. Overall, he thought it was reasonable for Savvy to have lent to Ms R. 
It appears that Savvy agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Ms R disagreed and in summary she said had Savvy looked her credit file, it wouldve seen 
that she had another loan outstanding. And says a colleague at this service, on another 
complaint concluded at this time she didnt have any disposable income.
A different adjudicator responded to Ms Rs concerns. They explained that Savvy did carry 
out a credit check, but this didnt show any adverse information that wouldve prevented it 
from lending to Ms R. While Savvy was aware of some other outstanding loans, in the 
adjudicators view this didnt change the outcome of the case. 
In relation to Ms Rs complaint about another lender, the adjudicator explained that the 
complaint was upheld for different reasons, but Savvy had carried out an income and 
expenditure check. 
Overall, the adjudicators position didnt change. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish
whether Ms R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Loan 1
When this loan was approved, Savvy asked Ms R about her income and she declared she 
had an income of £2,344 per month. This income was verified as Ms R provided it with 
copies of her wage slips. So, Savvy had a fairly good idea of Ms Rs actual income. 
Ms R also declared to Savvy that her outgoings were £1,981 per month, leaving a 
disposable income of £229.14 in which to make the payment of £133.33. Solely, based on 
this information Savvy couldve believed Ms R could afford the loan repayments. As it was 
early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to have relied 
on the information she provided. 
Ive also listened to the call recording of the application process between Ms R and Savvy, 
where the income and expenditure is discussed, information around repaying a credit card 
and the hire purchase agreement as well as the previous loan that Ms R took that Savvy was 
aware of (one taken in March with a different lender). To me, its clear that Savvy was aware of other credit that Ms R had at the time, and it 
seems to have taken that into account when deciding the amount, it was able to offer her, as 
well. 
Finally, Savvy appears to have obtained copies of Ms Rs bank statements, for the period 
leading up to the loan being approved. Again, Ive reviewed these, but I dont think there was 
quite enough in there to have alerted Savvy that Ms R may have been having financial 
difficulties. So, given what else Savvy knew from the phone call that it needed to do any 
more. The repayments still looked affordable for Ms R, based on the checks that it carried 
out. 
For Ms Rs first loan I think Savvy carried out proportionate checks which showed Ms R was 
likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent seen 
any further information that shows its likely Savvy was made aware of any financial problems 
Ms R mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate her 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Savvy to rely on the information it 
obtained.
Loan 2
Loan 1 was repaid much quicker than Savvy had anticipated, given the length of the credit 
agreement. Ms R then returned for loan 2, which was to be repaid over a longer term but she 
borrowed a smaller capital sum, this also meant Ms Rs monthly repayments significantly 
reduced. 
When loan 2 was granted Savvy carried out a similar level of checks as it did for loan 1. It 
asked for (and appears to have verified) her income and Ms R declared this to be £2,238 per 
month. So again, Savvy had an accurate idea of her actual income. Ms R was again asked 
about her outgoings, she declared these to be £1,898, which based on her income, wouldve 
left sufficient disposable income in which to be able to afford the repayment that she was 
committed to making. 
For this loan, Savvy has been able to provide us a copy of the credit check results that it 
received. Ive considered what Savvy saw. But overall, I dont think there was quite enough 
in these results to have alerted Savvy to any wider financial difficulties Ms R may have been 
having or that the loan was unaffordable. 
As with loan 1, a telephone interview was carried out, a copy of this call has been provided, 
which Ive also listened to. Again, like loan 1, the agent discussed the income and 
expenditure information with Ms R. It also queried some of the credit file information it saw  
such as Ms R being over her credit limit on her credit card as well as a discussion about a 
payday loan the agent could see. The agent asked for evidence the payday loan had been 
repaid, which Savvy in the final response letter said it received. So, I dont think, taking 
everything that was discussed that Savvy wouldve thought Ms R couldnt have afforded this 
loan. 
Finally, I understand Ms R had another complaint at this service, against another lender 
which was upheld. But based on the information she declared to Savvy about her income 
and expenditure and the additional phones calls and checks that Savvy carried out I think its 
checks were sufficient and these checks showed Ms R was likely to be afford the 
repayments she was committed to making. 
So, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint. I appreciate Ms R will be disappointed by the 
outcome, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the 
outcome that I have.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman