DRN-3727314
The complaint
Mr S complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to the service he received 
when making an application for a residential mortgage. 
What happened
Mr S has said it took NBS eight weeks to reach the decision that it could not offer him a 
mortgage during which time mortgage rates increased and he lost the opportunity to get a 
much better rate than he presently has. He feels that NBS could have made their decision 
much sooner as it knew it did not lend against the type of property he wanted to purchase. 
Mr S also complains about the length of time it took for NBS to reply to his complaint.
Mr S made his mortgage application on 14 March 2022 and a decision in principle (DIP) was 
made that day. The following day, on 16 March, a full mortgage application was made 
leading to NBS arranging a valuation on the property for 17 March. 
On 21 March 2022 NBS said the property was not a suitable security for lending and accept 
that the application ought to have declined at that point, but this was overlooked. NBS 
advised Mr S broker that the application had been declined but also asked for further 
information. The email says,
If a satisfactory EWS1/further information is provided my valuation will be £0  
property not suitable security
On 6 April, NBS sent an email to Mr S broker that the application had been declined citing 
the reason as, 
"The property is directly opposite commercial use on a high street which means 
under lender guidelines it is not suitable as security for the lender - property is not 
suitable security and as per NW Policy declined. Case will be cancelled 10/04.
On 26 April Mr S broker raised a complaint with NBS on Mr S behalf and asked that the 
decision to decline his application be investigated. 
On 6 May Mr Ss broker asked NBS for an update which it chased on 10 May only to be told 
that the application had been declined because it was not a suitable security for lending. 
This led to Mr S making a complaint to NBS on 25 April which was not responded to within 
eight weeks as it should. 
NBS accept that it had identified in May 2017 that the property Mr S proposed to buy had 
been closed to lending. In other words, it was not a property NBS would accept as security 
for a mortgage. NBS re-opened the property for lending in June 2019 but closed it again in 
August 2020. NBS also accept it ought not to have requested a valuation on the property, or 
asked Mr S to provide more information, but that said, it does not accept that it caused the 
losses Mr S now claims he has suffered. 
NBS accepted it had provided poor service and that it had responded to his complaint on 23 
June which is outside the eight-week period permitted, and so offered Mr S £100 in 
compensation. 
Mr S was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been poor 
service by NBS, and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient. She thought £250 
overall would be a fair and reasonable resolution. NBS agreed with that but Mr S didnt and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NBS have accepted that the property Mr S wished to purchase was not one it would ever 
have agreed to lend against. That is of course a business decision which NBS are entitled to 
make. I do not think that Mr S challenges this point either.
Mr S made his full application on the 15 March and it wasnt until 21 March that NBS 
identified that it wasnt a property they were going to lend on. Mr S feels that NBS ought to 
have realised this the day after he applied when it first dealt with his application and 
arranged the valuation. 
On 17 March, the Bank of England (BoE) raised its base interest rate to 0.75% so I can 
understand why Mr S is unhappy. But even if NBS had told Mr S on the 16 March that it 
wasnt going to be able to offer him a mortgage, it is highly unlikely Mr S could have 
approached another lender, and obtained another mortgage offer prior to the BoE base rate 
going up.
So, the fact that NBS didnt immediately tell Mr S that his application was not going to 
succeed, it has not caused Mr S any loss in relation to the first BoE base rate increase 
because that would have happened before he could have obtained a new mortgage offer 
anyway.
I accept that NBS letter 21 March is confusing because it tells Mr S that further information 
is required but also that even if it is provided, and is satisfactory, the valuation will be £0 and 
the property will not be a suitable security. It is understandable therefore why that decision 
would be challenged. But, I have also seen the email from NBS to Mr S broker on 6 April 
stating that the application had been declined and would be cancelled on 10 April. That letter 
was very clear so there can be no misunderstanding to my mind that the application was 
going to be cancelled and when. 
I understand a different reason may have been given later to the broker, but the fact remains 
that the reason provided on 6 April very clearly spelled out why the application had been 
declined, that being that the proposed property was not a suitable security for NBS. At that 
point in time Mr S could have made an application to another lender, but he didnt. He and 
his broker chose to raise a complaint and ask for the decision to be reviewed, although that 
wasnt done until 26 April.  
On 5 May BoE raised the base rate again to 1% and so the question now becomes whether 
NBS can be said to be at fault in some way for any losses after this point. I dont think it can. 
On 6 April Mr S and his broker would have known that there was always a possibility that 
interest rates could change with market conditions. Indeed, the mortgage illustration 
explicitly says that. It was also widely known at that time that interest rates were likely to rise further. And whilst I understand why Mr S initially wanted to challenge NBS decision, he 
would necessarily have known that such a challenge would take up time during which the 
risk was present that the rate would change  which it did. And I have seen the email 
exchange between Mr S and his broker in which Mr S is clearly trying to chase a decision 
which evidences this challenge. 
So, I dont see that NBS has caused any loss here. It declined the application on 6 April and 
Mr S could have chosen to obtain another mortgage at that time and in the month before 
rates rose again. 
Putting things right
NBS has accepted that it didnt get things right to some degree however, even though they 
are unrelated to the increase in rates, and because of that it has agreed with our 
investigators view that compensation should be increased to £250. Ive given this some 
further thought I think this is a fair and reasonable figure as the effect of those mistakes was 
to put Mr S to time and trouble obtaining information that he didnt need to. It also takes into 
account that there was a delay of a few days in providing Mr S with a response to his 
complaint. As I understand it Mr S has no loss in relation to the valuation fee since that was 
refunded.
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst NBS have 
indeed made errors, I cant say NBS has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here 
and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already agreed to pay Mr S £250 to settle this complaint, 
and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do 
anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman