DRN-2235535
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Ms J says 
Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds), mis-sold to her with a credit card in or around November 
1987.
Ms J, who is represented by a third party, says the PPI was added without her 
knowledge or agreement. She also says she didnt need it. 
What happened
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided Ms J with their view 
that it shouldnt be upheld. As Ms J has disagreed her complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint.
Lloyds has agreed with Ms J that the PPI was sold at a meeting. We no longer have 
access to any of the actual sale documents but that isnt particularly unusual, given 
how long ago the sale took place. So Ive used my knowledge and experience of PPI 
sales to help me think about what might have happened. Ive also looked carefully at 
what the parties have said. But given the difficult nature of the case, my decision is 
based on the balance of probabilities i.e. whats more likely to have happened.
Lloyds didnt have a copy of the application form Ms J used to obtain her credit card, but 
its given us evidence of the monthly statements which would have shown Ms J she had 
PPI and was being charged for it. In the absence of any other evidence from a sale, I 
think on balance this helps to show its likely that Ms J agreed to take out the PPI when 
she applied for her new card. Ive also kept in mind that her monthly credit card 
statements would have reminded her that shed agreed to buy the cover. 
Lloyds says it would have probably recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so 
this means it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Ms Js situation. I 
looked at her age, job, health and general circumstances to help me decide this.
From what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence or information to suggest that Ms Js 
protection from sickness through her job would have made the PPI unsuitable for her. 
Shes told us she was entitled to six months benefits at full pay followed by six months at 
half. In the event of a successful claim for example, Ms J wouldve been able to have her 
outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12months. These benefits 
were accessible in addition to her existing work benefits as well as the other means she 
already had in place, such as savings.
Ive also checked that Ms J was eligible for the PPI back in 1987. I also dont think she 
would have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see. We also know 
the cost was probably between £0.59 and £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding monthly 
balance on Ms Gs card. Ive not seen anything to suggests Ms J would have found these 
monthly charges unaffordable.
So taking all these things into account, I think the policy was suitable for her.
Lloyds also had to give Ms J clear information about her PPI. I obviously cant confirm 
she was told everything she shouldve been told. But for me to uphold this complaint, 
Id need to think it was more likely that Ms J wasnt given an option or there were other 
serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont have that evidence.
In summary, I think Ms J probably agreed to the policy and wouldve been able to see 
from her statements that she had it in place, over an extended time period.
It follows that I dont think Ms Rs policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint and I dont require 
Lloyds Bank Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman