DRN-3086839
The complaint
Mr G complains that AWP Assistance UK Ltd (AWP) declined a claim he made on his motor 
warranty after the timing chain on his vehicle failed causing it to require a new engine.  
What happened
Mr Gs vehicle broke down in February 2020. After inspection it was found that the timing 
chain had snapped, and the vehicle required a new engine. So, Mr G submitted a claim on 
his motor warranty with AWP. 
Whilst validating the claim, AWP discovered that the vehicle hadnt been serviced in line with 
the manufacturers guidelines. AWP said the fault was a direct result of Mr Gs failure to 
have the vehicle maintained in line with the manufacturers guidelines, and it declined the 
claim as per its policy terms and conditions. 
Mr G disputed this. He pointed to his service history and said hed meticulously maintained 
his vehicle with BMW its entire life. But AWP didnt amend its position, so Mr G referred his 
complaint to this service.
An investigator reviewed Mr Gs complaint but thought that AWP had fairly declined the 
claim.  
However, Mr G didnt agree. He said servicing had never been mentioned as a problem 
before and suddenly now that there was a big claim to pay, AWP were looking for any way to 
get out of paying for it. He said AWP had allowed him to pay for the policy for seven years, 
but when the cover was required, suddenly servicing was an issue. 
Mr G has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr G says his vehicle was routinely serviced at the correct intervals at BMW. And hes 
provided the vehicles service book to prove the service history. He says there is no lack of 
maintenance or breach of service schedule. He says AWP has raised issues from 2014, 
2016 and 2019. Hes said even though it was aware of alleged breaches AWP waited until 
now to raise them. Mr G says that at no point did AWP ever warn him there was a potential 
issue with the servicing and says that a claim has already been paid out on this policy, even 
though theres been a known breach of the conditions. He says AWP was happy to continue 
to take his money, even when it knew thered been a breach, and that this isnt in line with 
the principles of treating customers fairly. Mr G says AWP should be refunding his premium 
given what it allegedly knew about the servicing history in 2014. He says by AWPs 
reasoning, he was never going to be on cover for this claim. 
Mr G also says that he hasnt done anything wrong in relation the servicing process. He says 
once the warning light comes on, he books in the vehicle for a service. He says the garage is 
the one that provides the slot for servicing and often there is an extensive wait if a courtesy 
car is required. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
When servicing your BMW, failure to comply with the service schedule recommended by
BMW may invalidate this warranty. All service and warranty work must be carried out by an
Authorised BMW Dealer or BMW Service Authorised Workshop using only Genuine BMW 
Parts. Your BMW Service Booklet should be stamped, dated and detailed with the correct 
mileage at the time of service by the servicing dealer.
The policy also says:
This BMW Insured Warranty will not cover repair or replacement required wholly or partially 
due to lack of maintenance, abuse or neglect or as a result of accident
Its clear that Mr Gs vehicle has always been serviced by a BMW dealer. The booklet has 
been stamped and dated with the mileage detailed, so Im satisfied that part of the conditions 
of the policy has been met. 
It does look like from the evidence presented, that some of the services have been 
completed within the allotted timeframe and mileage set out in the manufacturers guidelines. 
But it does look like the services due in 2014, 2016 and 2019 were all completed after their 
due date. Mr G hasnt said this isnt factually correct, so we can take it that this is the case. 
When a vehicle isnt serviced within the allotted timeframe, the oil in particular can cause 
problems. Oil loses its viscosity over time and usage, and the longer it remains unchanged 
the more wear and damage is caused to the parts its supposed to lubricate. This wear cant 
be amended by then changing the oil as the damage has already been done. Once the wear 
happens it remains. Changing the oil just after a period of wear just means the wear slows 
down or stops for a while, but its not mended. So, if you are continually missing service 
intervals, and for long periods of time, the wear becomes worse and worse. Adding new oil 
doesnt solve the problem, it just elongates the issues that are being caused. 
In this case, the timing chain snapped. But this was some time after its last service. The 
inspection revealed black, sludgy oil deposits and scoring in the casing. Both a sign of poor 
maintenance over a period of time, a known contributory factor to timing chain issues. 
Mr G says there was no lack of maintenance and the oil had been replaced at the last 
service. He says the scoring wouldve occurred when the timing chain failed. I think its more 
likely than not that the oil was replaced. But as I said above, there were already problems 
underlying because of the delays in getting the car serviced at the right intervals. These 
problems were manifesting themselves, and no amount of oil changes wouldve rectified 
that. 
So, I think even though the vehicle has been serviced at BMW, the servicing intervals and 
resulting use over the recommended mileage had a detrimental effect on the engine and this 
was the main contributing factor in the failure of the timing chain. As such, Mr G has 
breached the policy terms and AWP has fairly decided not to pay the claim.But is the fact that AWP has continued to take Mr Gs premium and pay a claim, knowing 
that there were potential issues resulting from the inconsistent servicing treating this 
customer fairly?
I think it is. There was a claim in 2016 that AWP made a decision at that time to pay because 
it says the claim wasnt directly resulting from a service breach. However, this time, AWP 
has decided that the inconsistent servicing was a contributing factor in the engine failure, so 
its made the decision to not pay the claim as per the policy terms and conditions. 
So, I wont be asking AWP to refund the premium from any point. Mr G says that AWP 
shouldve made it clear at this point that the servicing was a problem. But the reality is that 
Mr Gs policy is still live and there is cover in place. Its not up to AWP to remind Mr G when 
to service his vehicle, and its clear from the policy terms and conditions that servicing needs 
to be within manufacturers guidelines or the warranty may be invalidated. Its not enough to 
have the car serviced by BMW. It needs to be serviced within the allowed parameters set out 
by the manufacturer, and this didnt happen here. This was set out clearly in the terms 
quoted previously in this decision. So, AWP hasnt made any errors and has fairly declined 
the claim. 
Mr G also says there were substantial delays getting the car booked into the garage. He 
says he booked the car in as soon as the service warning light came on. But Mr G says 
there were massive delays getting a service booked especially if you needed a courtesy car. 
He says its not reasonable to just stop driving so his warranty could remain valid.
We asked Mr G to provide evidence of the delays. But he hasnt been able to provide 
anything. So, we spoke to BMW. BMW says its system has no record of when the 2019 
booking was made. We know the vehicle was serviced but BMW has provided a data report 
that shows the service was 5,592 miles overdue. BMW has also provided evidence of the 
2014 service (2,796 miles overdue) and the 2016 service (2,920 miles overdue). BMW says 
even if you take it that Mr G was driving 1,000 miles a week, which is a high estimate, the 
2019 service was five and a half weeks overdue. BMW says it never has that type of lead in 
time for a service, even if a courtesy car is being offered. 
So, based on the policy terms and conditions and the evidence Ive seen on this complaint, I 
dont believe that AWP has made any errors and it looks like it declined the claim fairly. So, 
Im not upholding this complaint and I wont be asking AWP to doing anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is to not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman