DRN-2716888
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that a claim for an escape of water under his landlord insurance policy was 
declined and the policy was later cancelled by Great Lakes Insurance SE.
What happened
Mr V owned a property which was let out until November 2019. The property was put on the 
market for sale in January 2020. Mr V said he stayed in the property most weekdays from 
early January to 6 March 2020. Due to lockdown restrictions neither he nor his agent were 
able to visit the property from 13 March to 18 May 2020.
In May 2020 Mr V made a claim to Great Lakes after a leak from an upstairs radiator in the 
property was discovered. The leak had caused a lot of water damage.
Great Lakes said that Mr V wasnt covered for an escape of water because the property had 
been unoccupied for more than 30 days when the leak was discovered. So it declined the 
claim. It later cancelled the policy with immediate effect.
Mr V brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
Great Lakes had treated him unfairly.
As Mr V didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr Vs property was damaged by an insured event - an escape of 
water. The question for me to decide is whether the circumstances at the time of the claim 
mean that an exclusion for escape of water claims applies. The exclusion applies if the 
property is unoccupied for 60 days or more. There hadnt been a tenant living at the property 
since 14 November 2019 and the policy defines unoccupancy as meaning when it is not 
lived in by a tenant. So Mr V having stayed at the property in early 2020 didnt mean it was 
occupied. Therefore, based on the strict policy terms, the loss discovered in May 2020 
wasnt covered.
I appreciate that theres a variance between the ground on which the claim was declined 
which referred to the property being unoccupied for 30 days and the policy cover for an 
escape of water which refers to a period of 60 days. But since the property had been 
unoccupied for more than 60 days by the time of the loss, I dont think it matters.
Mr V has commented that he wasnt aware that a tenant had to be living in the property for it 
to be classed as occupied for the purpose of the policy. I note that Mr V bought the policy 
through a broker. However, as this complaint concerns the decision made by Great Lakes as 
the underlying insurer and by reference to the policy terms in place, Im not able to consider 
the brokers actions at the point of sale of the policy as part of this complaint. What I can say 
is that this is a landlords insurance policy and, as such, the cover in place is tailored to a 
tenanted property. For such a policy I dont think the definition of unoccupied is unusual or 
unreasonable. 
Mr V also said the property was regularly occupied by him until lockdown restrictions 
prevented him from staying there. He said he was refurbishing the property for sale and so 
doesnt agree that it was unoccupied. However, even if I were of the opinion that the 
definition of unoccupancy as not being occupied by a tenant was unfair, Im not persuaded 
that Mr Vs visits to the property should be classed as occupancy. I think occupancy involves 
the undertaking of everyday activities on a regular basis, such that a property is considered 
in the ordinary sense to be lived in. 
I also note that Great Lakes reached its decision on the basis that the property had become 
unoccupied as defined by the policy well before the lockdown restrictions came into effect.
Mr V has raised the fact that before renewal in January 2020 he told Great Lakes that there 
were no tenants in the property. He thinks from that Great Lakes should have been aware 
that the property was unoccupied. However the fact that there were no tenants living in the 
property at that point didnt necessarily mean that the property would remain empty or that 
Great Lakes should have assumed such would likely be the case  Mr V might simply have 
been in between tenants at that time. And in saying that I note that in answer to a question 
whether the property would be left unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive days in a 
calendar year, Mr V answered No even though it had already been unoccupied for more 
than 30 days prior to renewal. He also described the occupancy status as Let- 
Professional.
I sympathise with Mr V for the difficulties this has caused him but unfortunately for him I dont 
think the policy terms are unfair or that theyve been unreasonably applied by Great Lakes in 
the circumstances.
Under the terms of the policy Mr V was obliged to take steps to minimise the loss or damage 
claimed for. Within a short time he obtained a quote for the repairs. Great Lakes told him 
about three weeks after hed notified it of the claim that it would probably decline the claim 
and Mr V should take steps to mitigate his loss. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
timescale on its part bearing in mind its enquiries about occupancy. 
Great Lakes has shown us that if it had known in January 2020 that the property was not 
lived in by a tenant and on the market for sale, it would not have offered to renew the policy. 
So I dont think it treated Mr V unfairly in cancelling the policy after it had become aware of it. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman