DRN-3028996
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Ms D says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Santanders offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Ms D paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Ms Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received  but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Ms D has said that the PPI was included as part of the personal loan package, but I think 
it more likely Santander made it clear to Ms D she didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out. I say this because the personal loan and PPI were applied for 
during a phone call. And while Santander hasnt been able to give us a recording of the 
call itself, it has been able to give us a copy of the call script it says its representative 
would have used during the phone conversation. I havent any reason to think the 
representative didnt follow the script in the usual way during the call with Ms D. And I 
can see form the script that it would have been made clear to Ms D she had a choice 
about taking the PPI. So, I dont think it likely the policy was just included as part of the 
loan package and without Ms Ds knowledge.
Santander has provided a copy of Ms Ds personal loan and credit agreement that was 
sent to her after the call itself. This needed to be signed, dated and returned to 
Santander. There is a separate section entitled Payment Protection Insurance followed 
by some details about Ms Ds specific policy. And I can see the PPI is referred to as 
being optional and that the box has been ticked by hand to say, I wish to purchase 
Payment Protection Insurance.  Ms D has signed this section separately from the overall 
loan agreement itself. Taking all of this into account, I think it was most likely it was made 
clear to Ms D during the phone call that the PPI was optional. Otherwise I would have 
expected Ms D to have questioned its inclusion on the loan agreement it she hadnt 
agreed to take it when it was sent to her after the sales call.  
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Ms D  so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms D enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms D. Although Ms D says 
she had a medical condition sometime before the policy was taken out, I dont think 
better information about the existing medical exclusion wouldve caused her to change 
her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because the condition Ms D told us about 
occurred over 30 years before the policy was sold. Ms D didnt tell us of the need for any 
time off from work and she took medication at the time. So, I think it unlikely Ms D would 
have thought she would need to have made a claim on the policy because of that 
condition. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. Ms D has said she was financially stretched at the time, but she hasnt given 
us anything to show this the case. And in the absence of that, its difficult for me to 
conclude the policy was unaffordable for her  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms D would have declined 
the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms D would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Ms D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Ms D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Santander didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case. 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms D because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Ms Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Ms D should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Santander failed to tell Ms D about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms D wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for     
Ms D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Ms Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Ms D paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Ms D 
with the policy which Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Santander had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So, I consider that Santanders payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Santander has already paid Ms D compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Ms Ds complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Ms D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Santander UK Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Santander UK Plc should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman