DRN-1676060
 
The complaint
Mrs P, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC mis-sold her life cover for an unsecured personal loan.
What happened
In 2010 Mrs P took out a personal loan for £5,000, over a term of five years. At the time she 
was aged 66 and recently divorced. She had no dependants. As part of the sales process for 
the loan she was advised to take out life cover, which was designed to pay off the balance of 
the loan in the event of her death. 
In 2019 Mrs P's CMC complained about the policy on Mrs P's behalf. But Barclays 
concluded it had been a suitable recommendation. It felt Mrs P had been provided with 
sufficient information to decide whether it was something she wanted to proceed with, and it 
noted that she could've cancelled it if she'd not been happy. Barclays did, however, offer Mrs 
P a partial refund in light of the commission for the policy representing almost 80% of the 
premiums. 
The CMC didn't accept this and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
disagreed with Barclays and concluded that the complaint should be upheld, with a full 
refund of the premiums, plus interest. He didn't think that Mrs P had needed the cover and 
felt that the recommendation letter had contained only generic statements with little 
reference made to Mrs P's actual circumstances at the time, including the fact that she had 
savings and an income. 
Barclays responded to say, in brief; 
The sale of the policy was carried out in accordance with the Financial Conduct 
Authority rules. 
The adviser would've explained all the main provisions to Mrs P, so she could make 
an informed decision. 
The fact that Mrs P had savings at the time of the sale was the reason why she 
wasn't recommended accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
She didn't have sufficient savings to be able to pay off the loan.
She had no other life cover. 
She could've cancelled the policy if she'd changed her mind.
She would've benefited in the event of a successful claim.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his view. He reiterated that the 
recommendation letter had failed to show how the policy was consistent with Mrs P's 
circumstances. In respect of Mrs P's savings, the investigator noted that she may have had 
money held elsewhere other than with Barclays. But that in any event, she had sufficient for 
a significant amount of the loan to be paid off.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, in 2010 Mrs P was recently divorced. And although she was still working and had 
some savings, her financial situation was clearly far from stable - hence why she needed a 
loan. It seems very apparent from looking at the sales documentation - and also from the 
nature of Barclays' response to the complaint - that the sale of the life policy was part of a 
general sales approach that was primarily focussed on payment protection insurance. 
Indeed, the recommendation letter issued to Mrs P started by thanking her for applying for 
'Barclays Loan Payment Protection Insurance'.  
But this wasn't payment protection insurance (PPI), it was life cover. And I can't see why Mrs 
P, whose financial circumstances were so uncertain that she needed a loan, would've 
wanted to commit further money to a life policy that wouldn't really benefit her in the event of 
a successful claim, as Barclays has said, but rather would've benefited her estate. And given 
her lack of dependants, it strikes me as unlikely that if she had really understood the 
situation - and had the rationale for the sale been properly explained to her in the 
recommendation letter - that she would've agreed to take out the policy.
It may be the case that Mrs P did understand what she was being sold and made the 
decision that she wanted to leave her affairs in order in the event of her death, with the loan 
paid off (even though the likelihood of any outstanding balance being pursued against her 
estate would've been highly unlikely). 
But there's nothing to support this having been the rationale behind the sale. And given the 
confusion around the nature of the cover that has extended into Barclays' investigation of the 
matter, I'm unable to conclude that Mrs P was able to make an informed decision to take out 
this policy, which doesn't strike me as having been suitable for her, or something she 
needed, given her circumstances at the time. 
Putting things right
Barclays should refund Mrs P all the premiums paid for the policy, plus interest at 8% simple, 
from the date each was paid to the date of settlement. It can deduct from the total the 
payment already made in respect of the commission issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay compensation to Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman