DRN-3237775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property which they say was caused by a storm. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised events 
below.
Mr and Mrs B have a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Aviva.
On 5 April 2021, Mr and Mrs B say strong winds and other weather conditions 
caused storm damage to their property when the gable wall from the neighbouring 
property fell onto their extension.
Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva the same day to make a claim on their policy.
Aviva told Mr and Mrs B the claim had been declined because there was no insured 
peril and they had no cover for accidental damage.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Aviva as they felt the claim should have been covered 
for storm damage. Mr and Mrs B provided Aviva with a report from a meteorologist 
which they felt supported their position. 
Mr and Mrs B also felt the claim could be considered under the other flying objects 
term of the policy.
Aviva didnt agree and maintained that the policy didnt provide cover in either of the 
situations Mr and Mrs B had mentioned. 
Mr and Mrs B brought the complaint to this service  they maintained coverage 
should be provided and the damage to their property was caused by a storm or at the 
least by flying objects caused by the weather conditions. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She felt there wasnt any way of knowing 
the exact wind speeds. The reported speeds at the time ranged from 15 to 40 mph 
which wouldnt constitute a storm. But she accepted that the meteorologist said the 
winds could have been up to 10 mph higher so she couldnt completely dismiss that 
there was a possible storm.
But having considered all the information provided she didnt feel the main reason the 
gable wall collapsed was due to the storm and felt it related more to the structure 
being unsupported. 
So, she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly in declining the claim. Nor was she 
persuaded that the terms relating to flying objects were covered here either. So she 
didnt ask Aviva to do anything more.  
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulator which includes that insurers 
must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a claim. 
I have considered whether Aviva dealt with Mr and Mrs Bs claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim. Having done so, Im not 
upholding the complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B say their property was damaged following strong winds which collapsed the 
gable end wall of their neighbouring property resulting in it falling onto their property. The 
starting point is the policy document which provides cover in the event of damage caused by 
storm or flood. 
As explained by the investigator, our service generally takes an approach to storm claims 
which involves answering three questions: 
Were weather conditions at the time of the incident consistent with a storm? 
Is the damage caused consistent with what would be caused by a storm?
Is the storm the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then wed normally expect an insurer to 
cover a claim.
Were weather conditions at the time consistent with a storm?
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and a storm isnt defined in these. The lowest 
wind speed that the Beaufort Scale considers strong enough to cause structural damage is 
47 mph. The evidence provided by Mr and Mrs B from the meteorologist suggest the 
recorded wind speeds at the time were between 30 to 40 mph, which wouldnt constitute a 
storm. However, the meteorologist did say the wind speeds could have been higher by 
perhaps up to 10 mph, but he said it was impossible for him to be precise. 
So, I cant be certain that the wind speeds reached the levels needed to be considered a 
storm on the Beaufort Scale but if I do accept that they did, I still need to consider the other 
two questions. 
Is the damage caused consistent with what would be caused by a storm?
Its accepted that storms can cause structural damage to buildings, and the level of damage 
increases with increased wind speeds. The damage caused to Mr and Mrs Bs property was 
extensive, but this wasnt caused by the winds speeds directly but because the neighbouring 
gable end wall fell on to Mr and Mrs Bs extension. It is suggested by Mr and Mrs B that the 
reason the gable end wall fell was due to the strong winds. 
According to the Royal Meteorological Society the average wind speeds here would be 
consistent with potentially causing slight structural damage, such as removing tiles or 
chimney pots. But Mr and Mrs B say the damage caused was the blowing over of the gable 
end wall. So, on balance I cant be sure that the damage caused was consistent with a storm condition at these wind speeds. Im also not aware of any other properties in the vicinity of 
Mr and Mrs Bs property as having suffered similar damage, or damage consistent with 
storm conditions.  But for the sake of completeness Ive also gone on to look at the final 
question.
Is the storm the main cause of damage? 
It doesnt seem to be disputed that there were structural concerns with Mr and Mrs Bs 
neighbouring property when the damage occurred. A specialist report provided by Mr and 
Mrs B says:
It was evident that the roof timbers and floor timbers had all been removed as part 
of the building works leaving the two gable walls unsupported
.  It was evident that the building works had been going on under the shadow of the 
unsupported gable walls
Mrs B and her two daughters advised me they had raised their concerns with the 
builders and an engineer/architect about the unrestrained gables, and these 
concerns had been ignored
My Concerns
I was unable to ascertain the stability of the structure of remaining gable wall, and 
there were other areas of the existing structure that were questionable
The evidence is clear that the support provided to the gable walls of Mr and Mrs Bs 
neighbouring property was inadequate at the time of the collapse. It seems to me that there 
were significant concerns with the structural integrity of Mr and Mrs Bs neighbouring 
property at the time. 
While Aviva felt there werent storm conditions, the policy also requires that a property is 
kept in a good state of repair. Here we need to consider Mr and Mrs Bs neighbouring 
property as the alleged storm impacted its gable wall which then further went on to damage 
Mr and Mrs Bs property. 
The structural concerns were known about and were serious enough for Mrs B and her 
daughters to raise concerns with builders and engineers/architects. So I do think Mr and  
Mrs Bs neighbouring property wasnt in a good state of repair at the time of the collapse. 
The collapse was, on balance, linked to these issues. So I conclude even if there was a 
storm I dont think this was the main cause of the damage. 
In line with the approach I set out earlier, not all of the questions, if any, have a positive 
answer. So Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when it declined cover for the claim. 
Ive also considered the further terms that Mr and Mrs B say the claim should be covered 
under:
Being hit by: 
a) aircraft or other flying objects or items dropped from them; 
b) vehicles or animals.
I can see why Mr and Mrs B might feel that the literal definition of flying objects would mean 
their claim was covered. However, it seems clear to me that this term relates to aircraft or 
other flying objects, rather than things crashing from the roof to the ground. Taking the words in their context I dont think there is any application to masonry as a flying object.
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B. And I sympathise with the 
situation this leaves them in. But while they had a home insurance policy, this doesnt mean 
that Aviva will be liable for claims that its policy doesnt provide cover for. I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman