DRN-3236437
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) following the return of her car.
What happened
On 15 March 2017, Mrs D was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. She paid a deposit £7,959.73, and the agreement was for £32,608.47; with 48 
monthly payments of £414.81, and a final optional payment of £17,775.00 if she wanted to 
purchase the car. 
When the agreement was coming to an end, Mrs D contacted MBFSs collections agent to 
arrange to return the car. She had a private number plate, also known as a cherished 
number plate, on the car, and the agent told her shed be able to arrange collection before 
the number plate had been changed over. Mrs D didnt arrange collection of the car on that 
call but called back the following day to do this. However, on this call, she was told that the 
number plate would need to be changed over before a collection date could be booked.
Mrs D arranged to change the number plate, and the car was collected on 2 June 2021. 
After the car was collected, Mrs D was invoiced for £1,889.23 for damage that fell outside of 
normal wear and tear, and £1,105.60 for additional usage. Mrs D didnt think the additional 
usage charge was fair, because of the advice shed been given in her first call to the 
collection agent. And she complained to MBFS.
MBFS said Mrs D had been given incorrect information, and they gave her £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill. But they also said Mrs D had been provided with sufficient information explaining 
that the number plate had to be changed back 12-weeks before the agreement came to an 
end. And, because Mrs D hadnt done this, they didnt think the incorrect information given 
by the collection agent had resulted in any additional usage charge. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with this response, and she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement Mrs D signed told her she needed to change the 
numberplate over 10 to 12 weeks before the end of the agreement. And MBFS had said they 
also sent Mrs D documentation about this before the agreement was due to end. So, she 
thought Mrs D wouldve been reasonably aware of what she needed to do.
The investigator also said that, although Mrs D had been given incorrect information, this 
was rectified the following day. So, she didnt think this had any impact as, even if Mrs D 
been given the correct information in the first call with the collection agent, the number plate 
would still not have been changed over in time for the end of the agreement.
The investigator thought that, because Mrs D had use of the car for longer than the 
agreement allowed, she should pay for this. And, given the above, she didnt think MBFS 
needed to do anything more.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. She said she didnt use the car after the agreement 
ended, and she hadnt used the car for around a year before this. She thought it was unfair 
that the investigator referred to the original documents when shed been given misleading 
information  she took the information from the first call with the collection agent to be 
correct. She feels that she followed the correct process, based on the information shed 
been given, and shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mrs D signed on 15 March 2017. This says that, if you 
have a cherished number plate, it is important to place it on retention with the DVLA. The 
DVLA advise that you should do this at least 10-12 weeks before the end of your agreement 
... when you have a new registration number plate please contact [us] so [we] can update 
the vehicles details. 
The agreement also clearly stated that, at the end of the hire period, you must return the 
vehicle to us in accordance with the terms and conditions of this agreement and if you fail 
to return the vehicle when required to do so  additional days hire charges calculated on a 
pro-rata basis of the monthly payment will be payable by you up until and including the day 
on which the vehicle is returned to us. You may also be charged a sum equating to the cost 
of the depreciation in the vehicle.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mrs D wouldve been reasonably aware of her obligations 
under the agreement, and what she could be charged for returning the car after the 
agreement had ended.
The agreement was due to end on 15 March 2021. MBFS have said they automatically send 
a letter 120 days before the end of the agreement, reminding customers to arrange retention 
of their number plate. As 120 days before the end of the agreement fell on a weekend, this 
letter wouldve been sent to Mrs D on 16 November 2020. Mrs D has said that, due to 
problems with her post, she never received this letter.
However, MBFS also sent Mrs D an email on 26 February 2021. While I havent seen a copy 
of this email, I understand it provided the same information as the November 2020 letter. 
But, even if Mrs D didnt receive this email, and didnt receive the November 2020 letter, she 
was aware that she had a private number plate, and this would need to be changed over. 
The time taken to deal with such a transfer is determined by the DVLA, who deal with these 
things, and not MBFS. So, it would be reasonable to expect Mrs D to check with the DVLA 
as to how long the transfer takes, so as to determine when shed need to apply for this.I havent been provided with copies of the calls Mrs D had with the collection agent, nor have 
I seen the call notes. But its not disputed that Mrs D was given incorrect information in the 
first call, or that she didnt go ahead with arranging the collection on that call but called back 
the next day to arrange this. At which point she was given the correct information.
The car was eventually collected 80 days after the end of the agreement. And Mrs D was 
charged for 79 days additional usage, at the rate of £13.99 per day. Had Mrs D been told the 
correct information on the first call, rather than the following day, its reasonable to assume 
the car couldve been collected a day earlier. And the additional usage charge wouldve 
been £13.99 lower as a result.
Given this, Im satisfied the £50 MBFS have already paid adequately compensates Mrs D for 
the financial impact of the car being collected a day later, and for the short period of time she 
was under the impression that the number plate could be transferred after collection. So, I 
wont be asking them to increase this.
I also appreciate that Mrs D said she didnt use the car from about a year before the end of 
the agreement, but she remained in possession of the car. And the car was available for her 
exclusive use while it was in her possession. Given this, I dont think MBFS have acted 
unreasonably by charging Mrs D for the time the car was in her possession. 
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs D, I wont 
be asking MBFS to reduce or waive the additional usage charges.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman