DRN-2777667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc have charged them an excessive fee on an
unsuccessful international transfer and given them incorrect information.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E attempted to make an international payment online with HSBC. They say that
they tried to transfer £8,600 but noticed that it hadnt left their account. Mr and Mrs E thought
there may be a glitch in the system and waited a couple of days to see if the payment was
debited from their account. When they logged onto their online banking a couple of days
later they noticed the funds still hadnt debited so they attempted to make another payment
of £8,000. The £8,000 was debited from Mr and Mrs Es account later that day.
The following week, while looking at their transactions, Mr and Mrs E noticed a fee of
£342.24 and rang HSBC to query this. They were told that the payment was a foreign
exchange fee and it had been charged on the cancelled transaction.
Mr and Mrs E complained to HSBC as they said they hadnt cancelled the transaction and
the cancellation was HSBCs fault. They said they had spoken to staff at HSBC who said
there had been a glitch in the system. Mr and Mrs E said the initial payment had not
showed as pending on their online banking and said there mustve been a glitch as HSBC
wouldnt have allowed them to make the second transaction if the first one was successful
due to their balance in the account at the time.
HSBC said the fee was correct and charged in line with their terms and conditions. They
explained that the fee was for bank charges on the £8,000 international transfer and the
£342.24 was for charges by the receiving and intermediary banks for conversion and
processing. They offered Mr and Mrs E £75 as a gesture of goodwill but Mr and Mrs E
rejected this.
HSBC increased the gesture of goodwill payment to £100 for Mr and Mrs E and as they were
due to fly abroad they accepted this payment. HSBC say this was paid into their bank
account.
Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to our service when they returned from abroad. They
said that the fee charged by HSBC was excessive and not in line with what theyve
previously paid for making international payments. They asked for the fee to be returned to
them as they said HSBC has made a mistake by charging them this.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. The investigator said that HSBC
had done nothing wrong in applying the charges that they did. He added that HSBC said
they couldve explained things better but HSBC paid Mr and Mrs E £100 which he felt was
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs E disputed a lot of what the investigator said and asked for their complaint to be
reviewed by an Ombudsman.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on a timeline of events so Ive looked at all of the information
available to me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on
balance of all the evidence here.
During a call Ive listened to, Mr E says that he believed the initial attempted payment was
made on a Thursday or Friday (13 or 14 August 2020) for £8,600. HSBC initially said that
both the payments were for £8,000 and were both made on 17 August. I have seen evidence
which shows the first payment attempted was for £8,697 on Saturday 15 August 2020 so Im
satisfied the initial payment was attempted then and Ill explain why.
When an international payment is submitted on HSBCs website, this creates a Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) message. The SWIFT message
shows an attempted payment on Saturday 15 August 2020 for £8,697.
Ive looked at screenshots of HSBCs payment screens which would have appeared when
Mr and Mrs E made an international payment. There is a warning on the website which
states the foreign currency markets are closed from 22:00 Friday until 00:00 Sunday and on
bank holidays. There is another warning later on in the process - on the verification page
before clicking confirm - that says if a payment falls on a non-working day, we will start to
process it on the next working day.
After the payment has been confirmed the screenshots Ive been provided with state the
following: immediate payments may not leave your account straight away, so do not re-
enter this payment and please ensure your account has a sufficient available balance until
the payment has been debited.
There are further warnings on the screenshots which say if this payment cannot be made or
is returned by the foreign bank for any reason the payment will be reversed. If there has
been movements in exchange rates which leads to a gain or a loss, this will be passed to
your account.
So ultimately here, Mr and Mrs E made an instruction for a payment and while it wasnt
made immediately, HSBC treated this in line with their process and the guidance that they
made available to Mr and Mrs E. I think the problems here stemmed from the second
payment instruction. If Mr and Mrs E hadnt made that second payment instruction, then I
think that the original instruction to pay £8,697 would have eventually gone through
successfully, which means there wouldve been no need to attempt another payment. I say
this as Mr and Mrs E had a sufficient balance in their current account for the payment to be
successfully completed.
So Ive then thought about whether its fair to hold HSBC liable for the losses Mr and Mrs E
have incurred here. But I dont think it is. HSBCs website clearly states that if a payment
falls on a non-working day then it would be processed on the next working day. So Im
satisfied that the initial attempted payment wouldve been processed on 17 August. From the
system screenshots HSBC sent me, Ive seen the initial payment was actually attempted to
be processed on 17 August. I believe this is why HSBC have said at times that two
payments were attempted on 17 August 2020 instead of realising one was made on 15
August and one was made on 17 August.The next thing Ive considered is why the second payment of a lower amount (£8,000) was
processed before the first payment on 15 August. Ive asked HSBC what would happen
when a customer would complete the online payment form on a non-working day. HSBC
said that a payment attempted on a weekend would go into a queue to be processed the
next working day. They also told me that when a payment instruction is submitted they wont
check a customers balance, but the exchange rate would be booked there and then.
Im persuaded that what happened in Mr and Mrs Es circumstances is that when they
attempted the initial payment of £8,697 on Saturday 15 August, the payment went into a
queue to be processed on Monday 17 August. But when Mr and Mrs E logged onto their
internet banking and saw the payment hadnt left their account, they thought there mightve
been a glitch and attempted to make a second payment. The successful payment of £8,000
appears to have been made at 4:13 AM from screenshots of the successful payment Ive
seen. As previously mentioned, the foreign currency market wouldve reopened at midnight
so it appears that the second payment wouldnt need to join a queue to be processed as it
was made on a working day when the foreign currency markets were open.
As the payment for £8,000 was successful and debited Mr and Mrs Es current account, by
the time the original payment of £8,697 was processed, there werent enough funds in their
account to make this payment and HSBC had to reverse this transaction. But as the foreign
exchange rate had changed between the days Mr and Mrs E clicked confirm on the
payments website and HSBC reversing the foreign exchange, this resulted in a loss. As per
the information given on HSBCs website, any loss will be passed on to the customers
account and thats what happened here.
Mr and Mrs E have said that they were told that there was a glitch on the system by HSBC
staff. But Ive not seen any evidence to support that they were told this, or that there was any
sort of glitch or systems issue. Ive asked HSBC to send me screenshots of call logs. I can
see that no calls were made to HSBC in between the first and second payments. The first
calls I can see Mr and Mrs E made were on 26 August 2020. Ive listened to the calls Mr and
Mrs E had here and the staff dont say there was a glitch. Neither do they say there was an
error on HSBCs part. Mr and Mrs E have mentioned that they did go into the bank on
several occasions to discuss the issue so its possible that they may have been told this by
branch staff. But, regardless of this, Ive seen no evidence to suggest there was a glitch with
HSBCs systems and they appear to have worked as they should have done here.
On one of the calls I listened to from 26 August 2020, Mr E tells the call handler the money
was still sitting in their account a couple of days after they made the first payment. He told
the call handler that he said to Mrs E look theres always glitches at the bank, theres been
lots of power cuts lately, I said just do it again. If the moneys going through it wont let you
transfer another (amount as) the balance isnt there. So she did another one. This would
indicate that Mr and Mrs E thought there may be a glitch in the system. But in reality the
second transaction shouldnt have been attempted due to the warnings on the website that
immediate payments may not leave the account straight away and to not re-enter the
payment.
Im satisfied that the £342.24 was a legitimate fee which was charged to Mr and Mrs E as
there was a foreign exchange loss on the attempted initial payment. So although the
payment wasnt successful HSBC were entitled to charge Mr and Mrs E for the loss due to
the foreign exchange rate changing for this transaction as stated on their website before they
clicked to submit the payment for the reasons Ive already given.
Im persuaded that HSBC did give Mr and Mrs E incorrect information at times though.
HSBC said the fee charged was on a payment of £8,000 and said the £342.24 were charges
by the receiving and intermediary banks for conversion and processing. HSBC shouldvebeen clearer that the fee of £342.24 was for the foreign exchange loss on the unsuccessful
international transfer of £8,697.
HSBC has paid £100 to Mr and Mrs E as a goodwill gesture. Mr and Mrs E say this is an
indication of an admission that HSBC are in the wrong and only accepted the payment as
they were going abroad. But Im not satisfied thats what has happened here.
Im persuaded the £100 HSBC paid Mr and Mrs E reflects the impact that incorrect
information wouldve had on them when they were trying to understand why they were
charged £342.24. I say this as will have clearly frustrated them to be told incorrect
information while trying to find out why they had to pay this fee. So while I think this fair to
compensate them for the understandable confusion caused here  I dont think HSBCs
actions here mean they should take any further action in relation to this complaint, where I
cant see that theyve acted incorrectly in how they dealt with the payments.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC had no further comments to add, but Mr and Mrs E responded with further 
comments. In summary they said HSBC had various opportunities in every phone call and 
every personal contact with them to let them know the truth behind why they were given this 
fee for the transfer and questioned the impartiality of the Ombudsmans provisional findings 
based on the evidence against HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E are concerned about my impartiality and that Ive taken HSBCs side. Im 
sorry Mr and Mrs E feel this way. Id like to reassure them that I have been impartial. I have 
based my decision on the evidence Ive seen.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs E have said about not being told the £342.24 charge 
was for a foreign exchange loss. HSBC did pay £100 to Mr and Mrs E as a goodwill gesture. 
Im persuaded that this reflects the impact that the incorrect information wouldve had on 
them for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. But as the charge was applied 
correctly then it wouldnt be reasonable for to ask HSBC to refund this.
In summary, Mr and Mrs Es response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr and Mrs E will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons.  
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman