DRN-3013115
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a loan NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) provided to him. He 
says the loan was given to him when he wasnt in a position to afford it and at the same time 
his credit card limit was being increased.
Background
Mr D also initially complained about a Marbles credit card. But as that complaint was upheld 
when Marbles looked at it, weve not looked into Mr Ds concerns about his credit card. And 
this decision is only looking at Mr Ds complaint about his Marbles loan.
Marbles provided Mr D with a loan of £1,500.00 in February 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £77.94. One of our investigators reviewed what 
Mr D and Marbles had told us. And she thought that Marbles hadnt done anything wrong or 
treated Mr D unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. Mr D 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Marbles needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Marbles needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Marbles provided Mr D with a loan for £1,500.00 in February 2019. This loan had an APR of 
24.8% and was to be repaid in 24 instalments of around £78, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £1,870.69. 
Marbles says it agreed to Mr Ds application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search. All of this information showed Mr D could comfortably make the repayments 
he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr D has said he shouldnt have been lent to.
The first thing for me to say is that Marbles hasnt provided a record of its credit search. But 
Ive looked at the copy of the credit file Mr D has provided. And while Mr D did go on to have 
significant difficulties repaying credit, this was after hed taken the Marbles loan. So Marbles 
cant have foreseen that this might happen in the future and I dont think it would have 
reason to doubt or disbelieve the other information it had.
Mr Ds actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the information Marbles obtained. But its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And the relatively 
low monthly payments and lack of obvious inconsistencies mean I dont think that Marbles 
did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr D here - it carried out proportionate checks 
and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr Ds points regarding his overall debt position with Marbles during 
this period. I know Mr D had a credit card, as well as this loan, with Marbles. But its fair to 
say that the amount of credit advanced on the credit card was substantially more than this 
loan, which had low monthly repayments. So I dont agree that it automatically follows that 
Mr Ds complaint about his Marbles credit card being upheld automatically means that this 
complaint should also be upheld. 
I say this while especially mindful that Mr Ds other complaint being upheld has already 
resulted in him, as far as practicably possible, being placed in the position he would be in 
had he not been provided with those credit card limit increases. And Im satisfied that 
proportionate checks for this loan, when considered on their own, wouldnt have shown it to 
be unaffordable. I think that upholding this complaint based on wrongdoing on another case, 
which has already been put right, would arguably overcompensate Mr D and, in any event, 
based on the facts and circumstances in this case wouldnt be fair and reasonable.      
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Marbles treated Mr D 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman