DRN-2296703
The complaint
Ms S complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (Black Horse) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Ms S is represented by Mr W but for ease of reference I have referred to 
Ms S throughout this decision.
What happened
Ms S entered a HPA with Black Horse in January 2019 to acquire a used car. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was just under three years old and had been driven over 43,000 miles.
In January 2020, the car broke down due to an oil pump failure. Ms S says that when she 
acquired the car she wasnt told that it would need to have a MOT in two months time and 
so when the car failed it didnt have a valid MOT so had to be towed home. Ms S says she 
wasnt provided with any job cards for previous work or service history for the car.
Repairs were carried out on the car, but Ms S says the dealer refused to pay the outstanding 
amount due to the hire car company she used while her car was in for repair. Due to the 
issues with the car, MOT, service history and hire car costs, Ms S raised a complaint with 
Black Horse in February 2020 saying the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Black Horse didnt uphold Ms S complaint. It said that there wasnt evidence that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, noting Ms S had driven over 14,000 miles 
without issue. Based on this it didnt accept that Ms S should be allowed to reject the car. 
Regarding the MOT and service history, Black Horse said the car was sold with a full service 
history and it was Ms S responsibility to ensure the car was taxed and had a valid MOT. It 
said the information was available online. 
The dealer said that it had covered the hire costs up to the point of the repairs being 
completed. It said it then told Ms S that the car was available, but she refused to collect it.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that the car had been correctly serviced 
before it was supplied to Ms S and that the next service would have been due at 61,000 
miles or November 2020. He said that the oil pump should have lasted around 100,000 miles 
and based on when it failed, he thought this part had failed prematurely. Given this he 
thought there was a fault with the car and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
Our investigator noted that repairs were carried out to the car at no cost to Ms S and that 
these appeared to have resolved the issues. He thought this a reasonable remedy. He noted 
Ms S was without the use of her car for two weeks before repairs took place but once these 
were being carried out a hire car was arranged. He noted the comments about the timing of 
the repairs and accepted that Ms S was aware the repairs had been completed on 5 
February 2020. He thought it fair that Black Horse either make arrangement for the 
outstanding car hire invoice to be paid or pay Ms S directly so that she can then make the 
appropriate payment to the hire car company.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators view. She said that as the fault was present at the point 
of supply she should receive at least a partial refund and given a new engine was required 
she should have been allowed to reject the car.
Black Horse agreed to our investigators recommendation regarding the car hire costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons.
Car repairs / rejection
Ms S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in January 2019. Under the 
regulations, Black Horse can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. Satisfactory quality considers factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In 
this case the car was first registered in March 2016 and had been driven over 43,000 miles.
Given the age and mileage of the car, it would be reasonable to expect that there would be 
some wear and tear and that certain consumable items may need replacing, even a 
relatively short time after acquisition. Ms S mentioned a top up of fluid being needed shortly 
after acquisition and I can see this took place in March 2019. I accept that consumables 
such as this will need topping up from time to time and do not find this issue meant the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The car broke down in January 2020. This was just under a year after Ms S acquired it. By 
this time Ms S had been able to drive the car around 14,000 miles. The issue with the car 
was identified as an oil pump failure and the car engine needed to be replaced. Given the 
age of the car and its mileage, I wouldnt have expected this issue to have occurred at this 
time. Major parts can fail early if a car hasnt been properly maintained or damage has 
occurred but in this case it appears the car was reasonably maintained. This suggests that 
the oil pump failed prematurely, and the car wasnt sufficiently durable and so not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, if a car is found not to have been of satisfactory 
quality then the issues are expected to be remedied. If issues are identified within the first 30 
days then the consumer can exercise their short term right to reject. After this it is 
reasonable that the business is given an opportunity to carry out a repair. So, while I 
understand Ms S wished to reject the car, I find that repair was a reasonable remedy to the 
issue raised in this complaint.
As repairs were undertaken under warranty and at no cost to Ms S and I have nothing to 
suggest the repair hasnt resolved the issue, I find that this was a fair resolution to this part of 
her complaint.
MOT and service history
I appreciate the comments Ms S has made about not knowing when the MOT was due. 
However, I have nothing to suggest that Ms S was told the car had a 12 month MOT. The 
car was registered in March 2016 and so its first MOT was due in March 2019. I find it 
reasonable that Ms S would have checked when the MOT was due. I also understand the 
car had a full service history and this was available to be viewed online. Therefore, I find the information was available for Ms S to access and as I have nothing to show she was given 
incorrect information at the time of entering into the agreement I do not uphold this part of 
her complaint.
Hire car costs
As I think Ms S car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I find it reasonable 
that she didnt incur costs while her car was in for repair. I appreciate that it took some time 
for the car to be booked in for repair but once this had happened a hire car was provided.
The dealer has said that the repairs to the car ware completed on 22 January and that Ms S 
then refused to collect the car. However, Ms S has said that she had assumed the car was 
still undergoing repairs until she was contacted by the car hire company about the 
outstanding invoice. She says she then got in touch with the dealer and was told the car had 
been ready for collection from 22 January. Our investigator spoke to the car hire company 
which said the dealer had initially agreed to an extension of the car hire but not gone ahead 
with this which was why it contacted Ms S about payment. Ms S said she was aware she 
could collect the car from 5 February, and I accept that after this date it was Ms S choice not 
to collect the car.
Overall, while there is conflicting information, I find on balance it more likely than not that 
Ms S thought the car hire extension had been agreed. Given this I find it reasonable that she 
isnt liable for the outstanding invoice for the period 13 January to 5 February. Black Horse 
agreed to cover this cost to resolve the complaint and I find this reasonable.
Putting things right
Black Horse Limited should ensure the outstanding hire charge invoice is paid or provide 
Ms S with the funds to make this payment directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover 
Financial Services should take the action set out above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman