DRN-4365380
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs decision to decline a claim he made for 
an escape of water at his home under his holiday home insurance policy. 
Mr H is being represented by in his complaint by business C. For ease Ill mainly refer to Mr 
H as the complainant in my decision. 
What happened
Mr H bought a holiday home insurance policy with Zurich. He left the holiday home to travel 
in September 2022. Unfortunately in December 2022 a neighbour discovered there was a 
leak from a frozen main pipe which had burst, causing damage to the home. 
Mr H made a claim to Zurich. But Zurich declined Mr Hs claim because it applied an 
exclusion for cover where the property is left unoccupied unless the stopcock has been 
turned off. 
Mr H says he turned the stopcock off to the best of his ability.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Hs representative didnt agree. In summary he says Mr H is a frequent traveller and 
always closes the stopcock to the best of his ability. Stopcocks fail like any other plumbing 
fitting. He says its possible the stopcock failed after Mr H turned it off in September 2022 
which led to the leak in December 2022. 
So they want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy set outs the following terms and conditions which Zurich has relied on in 
declining the claim. The policy provides a definition of the term unoccupied as;
When the holiday home is:
 not being lived in and occupied overnight by you, your tenants or your invited 
guests, or
 not booked for a short term rental period
Zurich provides cover for specific insured events, so it doesnt cover every eventuality. It 
says:
What is covered 
This insurance covers the buildings for physical loss or damage caused by
4. escape of water from or frost damage to fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes
and;
We will not pay
c) for loss or damage while the holiday home is unoccupied unless you or a 
responsible adult representative of yours turns off the water at the mains stopcock.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that a leak did occur - but the reason for decline is that the 
stopcock wasnt fully turned off. 
Mr H said that a neighbour discovered the leak, and another person listed to check on the 
property called J attended. J said he was able to turn the stopcock further which stopped 
the leak. 
A plumber attended and recommended the stopcock be replaced as it doesnt turn off fully. 
Taking into consideration the comments by J and the plumber, Zurichs policy doesnt 
provide cover for every eventuality. It excludes cover in the following circumstances:
What is not covered:
1. Any loss or damage:
caused by wear and tear or any other gradually operating cause, mechanical or 
electrical breakdown, fault or failure.
Mr Hs representative says that its possible that the stopcock failed after Mr H turned it off in 
September 2022 - and that he correctly fully turned it off before leaving. 
From all of the available information, it seems the stopcock was either not fully turned off, 
failed, was faulty, or stopped working due to a gradually operating cause. And in any of 
these circumstances, Zurich doesnt provide cover as set out under the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr H and Ive no doubt the experience of dealing with water damage 
- as well as having his claim declined - has caused upset, worry and inconvenience. But I 
cant safely conclude that Zurich has acted unreasonably in declined the claim. So Im not 
asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman