DRN-3868650
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has turned down his claim on his 
motorhome insurance policy for water damage to his motorhome.
What happened
Mr P went out to clean his motorhome in March 2022 and found water had come in, causing 
damage to the interior. Mr P says this damage was caused by a storm.
So Mr P made a claim on his motorhome insurance policy with AXA and it asked him to 
choose a repairer to assess the damage, which Mr P did. Among other things, AXA asked 
Mr Ps repairer to give an opinion on what caused the water to enter the motorhome.
Mr Ps repairer didnt give an opinion on what had caused the water damage. But it did say 
Mr Ps motorhome wasnt economic to repair.
AXA then got an independent specialist to assess the damage. It also said Mr Ps 
motorhome wasnt economic to repair. Its report went on to say the damage to the 
motorhome was due to wear and tear and wasnt caused by a one-off flood. AXA said Mr Ps 
policy didnt cover him for wear and tear, so it turned down his claim.
When Mr P complained to AXA about this, it didnt uphold his complaint although it did pay 
Mr P £25 in compensation for a delay in giving Mr P a final response to his complaint.
Unhappy with the outcome of his claim, Mr P brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
who looked at it didnt uphold it. Looking at the evidence, she didnt think AXA had treated 
Mr P unfairly in turning down his claim. 
Mr P disagrees. Among other things, he says the inside of his motorhome was dry before the 
storm with no evidence of wear and tear.
So Mr Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps motorhome policy gives him cover if his motorhome is lost or damaged. But it also 
has an exclusion for, among other things, loss or damage caused by wear and tear, which is 
standard in insurance contracts. This is what AXA has relied on to turn down Mr Ps claim for 
the water damage to his motorhome. To do this, AXA must show that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the exclusion applies. So thats what Ive looked at here.
AXA got an independent specialist to assess the damage to Mr Ps motorhome. In its report, 
the specialist says:
On examination of the vehicle, the vehicle has suffered extensive water ingress resulting in 
damage to all interior fixtures and fittings.
This is long term water ingress, not the result of a one off flood event.
On examination of the roof fixtures, there is evidence of failure of sealer around roof 
skylights and the air conditioning unit. 
The report concludes: this is a long term issue, the result of lack of maintenance which is 
not covered by the terms of the policy.
AXA has relied on this specialists report to turn down Mr Ps claim.
Mr P disputes the specialists findings. Hes sent us a letter from his repairer saying the 
motorhome is always immaculate well looked after and maintained. And hes also sent us 
an extract of an email from another specialist that says:
Thank you for resending the pictures over. Unfortunately there is no way of confirming the 
entry of the water and due to the extent of water damage to the interior, there could be 
various areas of ingress. From the inspection earlier this year, there were no visible signs of 
damage to the roof or rooflights. The rooflights in fact look relatively new as these were not 
original and appeared to be sealed and fitted correctly.
Mr P has also sent us copies of invoices from his repairer showing the roof lights were 
replaced in 2018. He says the last roof lights lasted eleven years so he doesnt understand 
why the new ones wouldve lasted only four years. Mr Ps wife tells us that when Mr P 
discovered the flood in his motorhome, he pulled back the sunscreen cassette on the main 
roof vent and this was completely full of water which soaked him. She says the 122 mph 
winds must have blown underneath the external part of the roof light which made it lift up, 
allowing the torrential rain to enter the motorhome.
Ive thought carefully about all the information Mr P has sent us. But his repairers letter 
doesnt comment on the cause of the water damage. And his other specialist says theres 
no way of confirming the entry of the water. The email extract from this specialist (which is 
dated many months after the flood happened) does go on to say the rooflights appear to be 
sealed and fitted correctly. But its clear this assessment is based mostly on photos, and not 
a recent physical inspection of Mr Ps motorhome (it refers to an inspection earlier this year 
but theres no further evidence about this). And while Mr P says there was two or three 
inches of water on the floor when he first went to clean his motorhome, Ive seen no other 
evidence to back-up Mr Ps view that a storm lifted the rooflight and caused the motorhome 
to flood.
Against this, I have a report from AXAs independent specialist, based on a physical 
inspection of Mr Ps motorhome a couple of weeks after Mr P notified AXA of his claim. Its a 
short report but I find its contents persuasive.
In relying on its specialists report, and taking into account Mr Ps arguments and evidence, 
its my conclusion AXA has done enough to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
exclusion in his policy for wear and tear applies to Mr Ps claim. It follows that I dont think 
AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning down Mr Ps claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman