DRN-3615512
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about ongoing issues with how AXA Insurance UK Plc have dealt with a
claim made under a buildings insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr P contacted AXA around January 2018. He said a neighbours drain had a problem and
as a result water had flooded into his house. AXA initially recorded the claim as an escape of
water and appointed a loss adjuster to validate and deal with the claim.
After some time, Mr P raised a complaint about the way his claim had been handled and the
delays he said AXA had caused. AXA instructed a different loss adjuster to handle the claim.
The loss adjuster instructed a period of monitoring to see if there was any ground movement
as a result of the flooding. It said the results of the monitoring ruled out subsidence as a
cause of any damage, so it concluded the claim would be dealt with as Flood damage going
forward.
Mr P raised a further complaint to AXA. He wanted it to pay for trace and access to the pipes
under his property. And he was unhappy with the lack of support from AXA in dealing with
his neighbour and the water company. He said a sinkhole linked to the flood had
reappeared, which suggested the neighbours repairs werent satisfactory.
AXA responded to Mr P. It said it couldnt control the actions of Mr Ps neighbour or the
water company, but it had placed Mr Ps neighbour on notice with regard to future damage.
AXA accepted it had caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr P in its handling of the
claim and offered £400 compensation for the period up to the date of its final response letter
(20 February 2019).
Our service investigated the complaint in January 2020. The investigator concluded that
AXAs offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances, so didnt recommend it
do anything further.
Following our services investigation, Mr P raised further complaint points about AXAs
handling of the claim since its final response letter of 20 February 2019. In summary he said:
There was a lack of progress, updates, and communication on the claim.
He was unhappy with the loss adjusters handling of the claim and the questions it
had asked i.e. with regard to tree maintenance.
Hed incurred a significant hike in his premiums.
He didnt know which peril AXA was now recording the claim under.
It hadnt been shown where the source of the leak was coming from. He wanted AXA
to break open the culvert to investigate further.
The loss adjuster had said AXA was only liable for damage caused up to January
2018, but thered been a further flood in October 2019, most likely caused by a
sinkhole next door blocking the drains again.
oThe water company had stopped reconnecting the pipes and hed been cut
off from the supply as a result.
AXA had left him to sort the problems out by himself.
AXA put his neighbour on notice but hadnt followed up with action.
His property cannot be mortgaged in its current state.
AXA provided a number of final response letters to Mr P which will be considered in this
decision including those dated 28 April 2020, 6 May 2020, 25 June 2020, 12 February 2021
and 23 June 2021. In summary, AXA said:
There had been some avoidable delays in the handling of the claim and offered
further compensation payments of £200 and £50 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
That it would write to Mr P and clarify his liability and details of the damage it had
accepted under the claim.
The correspondence provided by Mr P didnt enable it to progress the claim.
It had agreed to several non-invasive investigations on a without prejudice basis. And
it had offered to attend Mr Ps property on a number of occasions, which had been
declined.
It couldnt agree to breaking open the culvert as the cause of damage hadnt been
established, and this would be an invasive investigation. So, AXA said Mr P now
needed to evidence the cause of damage to show an insured event had taken place.
It had offered to cash settle for the damage to Mr Ps basement but said it wouldnt
be paying any further costs towards Mr Ps surveyors or investigations carried out by
them.
The complaint was referred our service and passed to me. On 11 July 2022 I issued my 
provisional findings and said I intended to not uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive repeated an 
extract below:
Ordinarily, our service considers matters up to the date the business provides its final
response letter to the consumer, telling them they can refer their complaint to our service.
But occasionally its impractical to do so, for example due to the length of time thats passed
or if events have moved on. So, in the circumstances I intend to consider the events Mr P
has raised since AXA issued its final response on 20 February 2019, up to the date I issue
my provisional decision in order to arrive at a relevant and fair answer. And Ill also consider
all of the expert reports since the claim started for context.
Our service considers it fair and reasonable for an insurer to undertake investigations in
order to determine the scope of its liability  as they have access to the relevant resources
and experts to do so. But occasionally this may be impractical in the circumstances. So, Ill
consider AXAs reasons for not breaking open the culvert and whether its acted fairly here.
I wont be considering the actions of Mr Ps neighbour or the water company as these
activities dont fall within our services jurisdiction. So, whilst I may refer to some of their
actions for context, the crux of my decision will be regarding AXAs handling of the claim
only.Present position
AXAs position is that it hasnt been shown the culvert has suffered from insured damage, so
it wont agree liability. It says its settled the repair costs for the basement but isnt willing to
break open the culvert as this would lead to significant repair costs to reinstate the culvert in
any event. AXA says its offered numerous expert visits to review the culvert and to do non-
invasive investigations, but Mr P has rejected these. So overall, it maintains its position to
turn down the part of the claim linked to the culvert. AXA now want to set Mr P a deadline for
presenting an insured event, given the claim has been deadlocked since around August
2021.
Mr Ps position is that the culvert has suffered insured damage and that AXA have ignored
him and walked away from the claim. He says he has remained in the property for the last
couple of years without drains and should be moved out as there is a risk of the property
collapsing. Mr P adds that AXAs position in getting him to do any invasive investigations is
unreasonable as his only other option would be to go to court to get the unfinished repair
work finished to a standard.
The cause of damage
Ive considered all of the expert reports provided to get an understanding of the claim history
in context.
In summary, Ive drawn the following conclusions from the reports:
AXAs initial loss adjuster report from February 2018 makes no admission of liability,
nor is it conclusive as to the cause of damage. And AXAs letter to Mr P explains the
steps it had taken to communicate with the other parties involved in the claim. I find
AXAs initial approach reasonable here.
AXAs drains survey from January 2020 appeared inconclusive, with the expert
stating, At this point we do not know the true extent of the further work required on
the neighbours land regarding the investigation and repair of the damaged section of
culvert and the replacement of the foul system from the policy holders land.
Mr Ps surveyor (M) provided reports to AXA in October 2019 and January 2020.
M recommended two solutions; the excavation and replacement of the pipe under
Mr Ps property or diverting the water flow and making the culvert redundant. M
requested AXA authorised site investigations into ground stabilisation works and to
accept liability for the culvert damage. M was also awaiting a proposed scheme from
the water company to mitigate Mr Ps position regarding ongoing drainage.
Ms comments on the cause of damage state It would appear the original masonry
culvert has been replaced by a pipeline, somewhere below the risk address garden.
This junction detail is likely causing escape of water and backing up during heavy
rainfall. Whilst I accept M is a qualified surveyor, I dont think it was unreasonable for
AXA to query signing off a significant scope of works based on this comment and
report alone.AXA wrote to Mr P in April 2020 setting out its position on the claim. It said it wasnt
clear whether the water company had admitted liability for the damage to the culvert,
and what it proposed to do to prevent it becoming an ongoing situation. AXA said it
needed to establish what could be done to prevent further damage to Mr Ps property
and to mitigate the situation. AXA asked for details of Mr Ps correspondence with the
water company, for the specification of works as suggested by M, and evidence of
prevention of further damage. I think this request was clear and reasonable in the
circumstances.
AXAs loss adjuster report from June 2020 states that there is little it can do until the
sinkhole in the neighbours property is repaired. And it says it told Mr P its essential
the leak is stopped, and both the neighbour and water company need to carry out
repairs before it can assess the damage to his property. AXAs loss adjuster
concludes the issue is relating to a leak from the culvert but doesnt state what the
cause of damage is to Mr Ps property. I think this report is clear that there are issues
affecting the claim which are the responsibility of third parties.
AXAs loss adjuster report from December 2020 confirms the sinkhole hasnt been
repaired and the problem continues. It isnt certain what has caused the claimed
damage and is waiting for Ms specification of works. I think this report reinforces that
there are third-party responsibilities affecting the progression of the claim.
AXAs loss adjuster report from March 2021 states, We cannot be certain as to the
cause of the damage to the property and we have requested on many occasions a
site visit which has been denied by the Customerwe have received a draft copy [of
Ms specification of works]We have some concerns over the scope as there are
significant PC [Provisional Cost] Sums in the schedule, and we would question why
there are certain items in the scope which seem to be preventative.
Overall, Im not persuaded that any of the expert reports provide a definitive cause of
damage here. So, Ive next considered whether AXAs actions in disengaging from the claim
were reasonable in the circumstances.
Claim developments since 20 February 2019
Ive considered Mr Ps comments about the culvert suffering insured damage. Ive seen Ms
specification of works and I can see there are provisional sums requested of c.£60,000,
including a provisional sum of £30,000 + VAT for replacement of the culvert. Ms
recommendations appear to include a range of repairs including the boundary wall and resin
injection to the ground. Overall, there seems to be limited detail as to why all these repairs
are required. The scope doesnt explain or show how the culvert itself has definitively
suffered from insured damage, and I would suggest the fact the sums are provisional shows
the true cause of damage hasnt been identified either.
Ms conclusions appear to be based on a likely scenario as set out in its report above. And
whilst this scenario may well turn out to be true, I think AXAs actions in questioning the
amounts in the specification were reasonable in the circumstances, so it could determine the
limit of its liability under the policy.
In response, AXA says it offered to attend the site and carry out further non-intrusive 
investigations  given that breaking into the culvert will essentially be a point of no return.
And it proposed M returning to the site with better camera equipment to survey the drains
again, as long as M excluded any commitment to breaking into the culvert. I think this was a
reasonable proposal before proceeding to more intrusive investigations, given the cause of
the damage remains unclear.In August 2021, M wrote to Mr P saying it would no longer be able to provide further
consultancy on the claim. Ive considered Ms version of events but having reviewed
everything Im not persuaded by some of its conclusions. I say this because M concludes,
the Loss Adjuster suddenly announced that you, the client, should fund all investigations.
Furthermore, that they would not accept any claim or fund repair costs to the building.
However, as Ive set out above, it seems AXA was willing to continue investigating the issue
(including sending an engineer and surveyor to the site) but had been prevented from doing
so. In addition, I can see it has funded some of Ms investigations on a without prejudice
basis in order to try and gain further information to progress the claim. But ultimately, the
cause of the damage remained unestablished.
Therefore, having carefully considered everything, I find that AXA has made reasonable
attempts to move the claim forward and to determine the cause of the damage. I havent
seen any evidence it has turned down the full claim  rather AXA offered to cash settle the
damage to Mr Ps basement. And in the circumstances of this case, I think its reasonable
that AXA should be given the opportunity to determine the cause of damage and assess its
liability in this respect, before drawing up or agreeing to an updated scope of repairs.
Therefore, if this opportunity is not afforded to AXA, I dont think its actions to disengage
from the claim are unreasonable.
Conclusion
Having carefully considered all the evidence provided, Im not persuaded AXA needs to take
any further action here. I dont think its been shown that an insured event has occurred in
the part of the culvert Mr P may be liable for. And in order to uphold his complaint, Id need
to see firm evidence of one.
Its also apparent, that at times, Mr P hasnt allowed AXA or the third parties access to his
property. This appears to have caused delays in progressing the claim and has meant its
been difficult for AXA to gain the necessary co-operation to identify the cause of the
damage.
This is clearly a complex matter where the liabilities of each party involved arent clear cut.
So, whilst I dont doubt the claim and overall experience have caused Mr P a great deal of
upset, I cannot fairly attribute this to AXAs actions for the period Ive considered. So, I dont
intend to require it to do anything further here.
Developments
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr P provided a substantial response, which included photos and video footage from site 
investigations he arranged following receipt of my provisional decision. In addition to points 
previously raised, he said in summary:That the true position of the sinkhole and culvert wasnt apparent.
The issue is underground, so what exactly are AXA expecting to look at again with 
regard to site visits.
That my decision indicated I was looking for visual evidence of the blocked or flooded 
culvert to determine if the claim should succeed.
An ongoing dialogue between our service and AXA would help to progress the claim.
That he doesnt agree the matter is complicated regarding the various partys 
responsibilities.
That an email from around July 2020 shows the loss adjuster offered to dig up the 
culvert but that this offer was later retracted.
That his policy entitles him to have someone manage the claim on his behalf and be 
paid for by insurers.
He strongly feels the cause of the damage is within the culvert and apparent in the 
pictures and videos hes provided.
AXAs actions have caused him to conduct a further CCTV survey and site 
investigations, and he holds it as the insurer liable for any associated problems as a 
result.
He will only allow further site investigations from AXA under certain conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I accept Mr P has gone to some considerable effort to provide me 
additional information and evidence, I havent seen anything which upon review leads me to 
a different conclusion than I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why below.
Mr P has provided a further timeline of events which sets out the issues with the claim in 
some detail. My background is intended to be a summary of the key events I find relevant to 
my decision. As I set out previously, the informal nature of our service, our rules, and my role 
means that Im not required to comment on every point thats raised, and I dont intend to 
cause Mr P a discourtesy by not doing so. But I do want to reassure him that Ive carefully 
read and reviewed all of the evidence he provided in response to my provisional decision 
before reaching my conclusions.
I note Mr P asked for more time to provide a response to my decision, and that he made a 
Subject Access Request (SAR) to our service for the information we hold. I appreciate there 
will be delays in providing this. I took this into account when reconsidering his complaint and 
I dont think Mr P receiving the SAR would have any impact on the outcome of this 
complaint. As our investigator has previously explained  much of the information is 
duplicated, and as I explained, Im satisfied that Ive seen everything I need to in order to 
arrive at a relevant and fair outcome.
Further, when dealing with complaints we have to be sure we are being fair to both sides of 
the dispute, and leaving a complaint open without a resolution for an indefinite period 
wouldnt be a fair way to deal with the complaint.
My provisional decision set out what I was able to consider in relation to this complaint and 
the overall claim  namely the events following AXAs final response letter of 20 February 
2019 up to the date I issued my provisional findings (11 July 2022). And having reviewed 
everything I remain persuaded Ive considered everything within our services rules and my 
remit. That means I wont be commenting on the investigations Mr P has undertaken since my 
provisional decision was issued, or what Mr P says they show, as they fall outside of this 
scope. And in any event, Mr P would be required to present this evidence to AXA first before 
our service could consider the matter. Our service isnt set up to act in a claims handling 
capacity and as such any ongoing issues (including the matter of future site investigations)  
which fall outside of the scope of an individual complaint must be referred to the respondent 
(AXA) as a separate matter.
The evidence I have considered shows the overall damage Mr Ps claiming for. But Im not 
persuaded this is sufficient to show the cause of the damage is an insured event that 
requires Mr Ps policy to respond. This is in line with the test I set out in my provisional 
decision when considering all of the expert reports, and Ive not seen any evidence which 
means that I should depart from the conclusions I originally reached on this point.
I acknowledge Mr P has placed a lot of weight on an email from AXAs loss adjuster from 
July 2020, which indicated it offered to appoint a drainage specialist to review all aspects  
including a further CCTV survey and digging down. But this email also references 
outstanding legal correspondence, which supports the conclusions reached in the loss 
adjuster report of June 2020 and which Ive summarised in my provisional decision. 
Simply put, I dont think this changes my original conclusion that there were third-party 
responsibilities outstanding which affected the progression of the claim. And I think it 
reinforces that the issue of liability wasnt as clear cut as Mr P alleges.
Ive considered Mr Ps point about his policy entitling him to have someone manage the 
claim on his behalf and paid for by AXA. Mr P hasnt specified which part of the policy hes 
referring to here. But in any event Ive checked the policy terms and Im satisfied AXA has 
acted reasonably as referenced in my provisional decision: In addition, I can see it has 
funded some of Ms investigations on a without prejudice basis in order to try and gain 
further information to progress the claim. (My emphasis in bold). And Im satisfied this was 
communicated to Mr P and his representatives at the time. So, I wont require AXA to do 
anything differently here.
So, having carefully reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman