DRN-3989491
The complaint
Mr S complains that Inspop.com Ltd (trading as Confused.com) wont provide the travel 
rewards points he was offered when he took out his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy via Confused.com. He says the purchase entitled him 
to 3,000 travel reward points. He then received an email from Confused.com inviting him to 
claim a reward, so he claimed a store voucher.
Mr S, then found that he wasnt able to claim his travel reward points. He contacted 
Confused.com who said he was no longer eligible because hed claimed the other reward.
Mr S complained to Confused.com, but it maintained its position. It said information about 
rewards eligibility was available to Mr S before hed claimed.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Confused.com had made 
Mr S aware that he wouldnt be able to claim the travel rewards points if he claimed another 
reward or offer.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said hed entered into a contract with 
Confused.com with the understanding he would receive the travel reward points. He said 
Confused.com then induced him to claim a different benefit which negated his original 
entitlement. He didnt think this was fair or appropriate behaviour. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he accessed Confused.coms website via an airlines shopping portal.
Confused.com has provided a screenshot of the airlines website with the heading: Collect 
(travel reward points) with Confused.com Car Insurance. Beneath this theres the wording:
Rewards will not be given if you claim a Confused.com Reward or any other offer or 
voucher.
Mr S says after he purchased his motor insurance policy, he received an email from 
Confused.com inviting him to claim a reward. He says he doesnt have a copy of the email 
but recalls that it contained no mention of the fact that claiming a reward would invalidate his 
entitlement to the travel reward points.
Confused.com has provided a screenshot of the wording it says would have appeared on the 
email inviting Mr S to claim a reward.
This says: By buying car insurance through us you can choose a free gift with 
Confused.com Rewards*
Near the bottom of the email is an asterisk referring to various terms and conditions and the 
wording: If you claim a reward for car, home or van insurance, you wont be eligible to claim 
cashback or any other offers with the exception of the Confused.com Beat Your Renewal 
Guarantee.
The email appears to contain a link to the Confused.com website which has the 
Confused.com Rewards terms and conditions.
Within the terms and conditions, it says:
This Offer is not available in conjunction with any other offer, including offers via third party 
cash back sites, with the exception of the Confused.com Beat Your Renewal guarantee. If 
car, van or contents and/or buildings insurance is purchase through Confused.com via a 
cash back site and an application is also submitted for Confused.com Rewards, only the 
Confused.com Reward will be rewarded.
Confused.com has also provided a screenshot to show that Mr S would have needed to 
accept these terms and conditions when he made his claim for the store voucher reward.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr S. But Im satisfied that Confused.com 
gave Mr S sufficiently clear information to make him aware that he would not be eligible to 
receive the travel reward points if he chose to accept one of the other rewards it offered him. 
So, Im not persuaded that its treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman