DRN-2939458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 1996. Mr and Mrs M paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr M at first, and 
then Mrs M was added as the joint policyholder some months later.
I sent Mr and Mrs M and RBS a provisional decision on 22 June 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
It was a condition of the mortgage that Mr and Mrs M had to have a PPI policy in place for 
the first four years. And I can see that RBS set this out clearly, which meant that if Mr and 
Mrs M didnt want a policy then they wouldve understood they would need to apply for a 
different mortgage product. Mr and Mrs M say they were first told about this condition in the 
mortgage offer, by which point they felt it was too late to change product as theyd already 
paid for a survey. They said had they been told about the condition earlier, they couldve 
walked away. Ive thought carefully about this point.
I can see that in Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application, they ticked the option to discuss PPI. 
And the branch notes said they would apply for PPI for Mr M only as Mrs M hadnt been in 
her job long enough, then they would amend the policy to include Mrs M once shed been in 
post for longer. Mr M then signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI in his 
name, where he chose what level of cover he wanted. This all happened quite early on in the 
process, a month before the mortgage offer. So Mr and Mrs M did discuss PPI with RBS at a 
much earlier stage, and I think its most likely it was discussed that PPI was a condition of 
the mortgage. And even if they didnt discuss the condition at that point, that would mean 
that Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy of their own choice  in which case the condition 
wouldnt have made a difference for them as they wanted the PPI at the time anyway.
From what Ive seen, RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs M tailored financial advice about buying 
PPI  this was a non-advised sale. That means RBS didnt have to check whether the 
policy was right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs M enough information to decide for 
themselves whether the policy was right for them.
The policys cost and benefit were set out clearly on the PPI application  so I think Mr and 
Mrs M wouldve understood how much it cost and what it would pay out in a claim.
It is possible that RBS didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt cover. But from 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, neither Mr nor Mrs M were affected by any 
of those things.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs M queried why Mrs M wasnt initially on the policy. I can see thats 
because at the point of their application, she hadnt been in her job long enough to qualify for 
the PPI. She was added later on, once she had been in her position for enough time.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So RBS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs M paid for it. But RBS has offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some of the cost of 
the PPI  that is, the commission and profit share that was over 50% of the PPI premiums. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
21 July 2021. But neither Mr and Mrs M nor RBS sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Now that Ive issued my final decision, RBS will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs M its 
offer regarding the commission and profit share that was over 50% of the PPI premiums.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman