DRN-3317009
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sytner Group Ltd mis-sold hire purchase agreements taken out by him
around matters of negative equity, excess mileage allowances and voluntary termination
rights.
What happened
Mr H entered into three hire purchase agreements with a finance provider (who Ill call V) in
2012, 2014 and 2016. Mr H says that the same salesman of Sytner contacted him partway
through the first and second agreements offering to place him in a newer model of car and
also offering to give him a great deal.
Mr H says that the salesman said that he would ensure that Mr H could enter into the new
financial arrangement on each occasion without penalty and in particular that he wouldnt be
charged any excess mileage costs.
Mr Hs circumstances changed some time after he had entered into the third hire purchase
agreement with V. His employers were moving to a lease car scheme which meant that Mr H
no longer had any need to use the car. So, he intended to exit from the agreement using his
voluntary termination rights.
Mr H noted at this point that he had significantly exceeded the mileage allowance of 5,000
miles under the hire purchase agreement, however he says that the salesman at Sytner had
repeatedly assured him that this didnt matter, in other words that he wouldnt be charged.
However, upon contacting V, he was told that there would be an excess mileage charge. V
also told Mr H that negative equity had been carried over from the second hire purchase
agreement into the third, and that he would need to pay a settlement figure to exit the current
agreement.
Mr H complained to Sytner and said that their salesman had never explained that negative
equity was being rolled over into each agreement with V. He also complained that he would
be liable for excess mileage charges upon exiting the agreement despite being assured by
the salesman that this wouldnt be charged.
And Mr H mentioned that he had no option other than to keep the car despite not now
needing it because he faced a financial penalty for exercising his voluntary termination
rights to exit the agreement despite being half-way through its term.
Sytner didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and said, in summary, that he had signed the relevant
documentation confirming that all funding options had been explained to him. Sytner also
said that the total deposit paid (which comprised a payment from Mr H, a dealer contribution
and a finance contribution) covered the negative equity that had accrued from exiting the
second hire purchase agreement.
Sytner said that the excess mileage allowance and financial amount to voluntarily terminate
had been clearly stated on the finance agreement. However, it offered to pay Mr H £1,000
towards the excess mileage costs.
Mr H wasnt happy with Sytners response and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator sent a number of different views, however the basis on the referral to me for a
decision is that the investigator said, in summary, that Mr H hadnt suffered financially as a
result of there being negative equity and that he wasnt persuaded that Mr H had been
misled about the excess mileage allowance.
Mr H didnt agree, and so the case was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 January 2022, in which I said the following:
Ill firstly focus on the negative equity element of Mr Hs complaint, although Im of the view
that this also intertwines with the mileage allowance element bearing in mind the way each
has been factored into each finance agreement. Im also of the view that both of these
elements feed into Mr Hs concerns about his voluntary termination rights because of the
costs he says he has incurred in looking to exercise those rights.
Mr Hs contention is that Sytners salesman didnt explain that he would be carrying over
negative equity into the agreements with V. Ive looked at the vehicle order forms for the cars
Mr H acquired under the second and third hire purchase agreements.
The 2014 arrangement
The vehicle order form that was completed, which led to Mr H entering into the second hire
purchase agreement, showed that the total price of the car with accessories was just over
£31,000. Sytners salesman agreed a part-exchange value of £12,500 for the first car Mr H
had acquired and the order form notes that Mr Hs outstanding liability under the first hire
purchase agreement was just over £14,600. So, there was negative equity of just over
£2,000 as the part-exchange value didnt fully cover what was still outstanding under
finance. The order form also notes that Mr H paid a deposit of £1,000 and that there was a
finance deposit allowance made of just under £3,700.
The 2016 arrangement
The vehicle order form for this deal, which led to Mr H entering into the third hire purchase
agreement, sets out that the total price of the car was just over £40,000 and that a part 
exchange value of £15,500 was agreed for the second car Mr H had acquired.
The form also details that Mr H still owed just under £23,000 under the second hire purchase
agreement, which left negative equity of around £7,250. And the form sets out that the
negative equity was covered by a dealership deposit allowance of just over £2,600, a
£2,000 finance deposit contribution with the remaining amount paid by Mr H.
Negative equity
It's clear from looking at how both financial arrangements were finalised that negative equity
had accrued on both occasions because the part-exchange value of the cars werent enough
to clear the outstanding finance in place at the time. I think that the vehicle order forms set
this out accurately and reasonably clearly.I appreciate that both order forms have been set out with a number of different parts added,
like the dealership and finance allowances that were factored into each deal and that this
would have needed some careful consideration as to how each figure was reached and how
it affected the proposed new arrangement. However, Im also mindful that the intention of
each arrangement was for Mr H to be given the opportunity to acquire newer cars and newer
models of cars and that he agreed to this.
I cant be certain how each arrangement was put to Mr H and how the discussions with the
salesman went. I note Mr H says that the salesman contacted him about taking out newer
cars rather than him expressing an interest to begin with, and that he was promised a great
deal. But I cant be certain that the salesman specifically represented that the newer cars
would be heavily discounted. I accept its probably likely that the salesman persuaded Mr H
that these were great deals. But ultimately the intention was for Mr H to acquire newer
models of cars that would fit his budget and that arrangements were constructed so that the
negative equity would be cleared by certain contributions and allowances. That is not an
uncommon way for dealerships to arrange such arrangements and Im satisfied that these
were set out in both order forms reasonably clearly.
I note also that Mr H says that if the salesman had specifically drawn his attention to the
negative equity elements of both agreements, then he would have simply chosen to keep the
car he had. As Ive mentioned, I cant be sure how those discussions at the time went. But I
also cant be sure that Mr H would have chosen not to enter the new agreements on each
occasion. I say this partly because I cant discount that Mr H still may have wanted to drive
the newer models of car at the time. And Mr H may still have intended to keep the car until
the end of the term of the agreement. Im not saying that is what would have happened. Its
simply that I cant discount those possibilities.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not intending to uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint.
Mileage allowance
Ive looked at each hire purchase agreement and note that the mileage allowance on each
differ significantly. The first agreement Mr H took out set the annual mileage limit to 10,000
miles. This was then set at 18,000 miles for the second agreement and at 5,000 miles for the
third agreement.
Ive mentioned in this decision that its not uncommon for dealerships to structure deals to
take into account any negative equity that has accrued and that the deals are tailored to suit
a customers budget. It looks to me that this played a significant part in how the allowance
for the third agreement was set.
Mr H explained that his maximum budget for the third car was £600 and that the repayments
under the accompanying hire purchase agreement were set at £596. It looks to me that the
way the salesman was able to set the repayments at this amount was to set the mileage
allowance at 5,000 miles. Setting a higher mileage allowance will lead to higher payments
under finance, because the car has less value if a customer hands the car back at the end of
the term. So, setting the mileage allowance at a lower limit has the opposite effect, in other
words it will lower the monthly repayments under finance. 
Bearing in mind that the actual repayments under Mr Hs agreement were so close to his 
budget, I think this is why the mileage limit was set at 5,000 miles.
Sytner says that this was clearly set out in the finance agreement and that, by signing the
finance agreement, Mr H agreed to this limit. However, I think Mr H agreed to this limit with
caveats. Mr H has said that he used his car to drive to and from his work throughout each
week and that this commute was about 100 miles each time. I see no reason to doubt Mr Hsexplanation of this. It wouldnt make any sense for Mr H to have agreed to such a markedly
different limit between agreements two and three because his intentions and needs for using
the car hadnt changed.
I also think that its more likely than not that Sytners salesman specifically said that he
wouldnt be charged for excess mileage if he exited the agreement. This is borne out I think
by the salesman contacting Mr H part way through his first and second agreements to offer a
new deal for a new car. No excess mileage charges would have been applied for each
agreement because the salesman arranged a new deal with the same finance company. So,
any impact on the value of the car would have been factored into the part-exchange value
that was agreed, rather than there being a specific charge for any excess mileage.
I think on balance that Mr H was misled about the mileage allowances and that this has had
a particular impact in respect of the third agreement with V. Mr H had by the time he wanted
to exit the agreement significantly exceeded this allowance and was faced with either paying
that cost or indeed incurring even further cost if he decided to keep using the car.
Mr H eventually handed the car back and settled his finance agreement with V. However, V
charged him £2,848.32 for excess mileage costs. I dont think its reasonable for Mr H to
have paid this bearing in mind I am of the view that he was misled about how this was set
and how he was led to believe that he wouldnt incur any of these costs.
So, Im intending to uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint and to instruct Sytner to pay Mr H
this cost. I also intend to ask them to add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from
the date he paid V this cost to the date of settlement.
I also think that Mr H has been inconvenienced by Sytners actions and that it should pay
him £200 in recognition of this.
I invited both parties to reply to my provisional decision and to provide any further comments 
or evidence.
Sytner replied saying that they had no further evidence for me to consider. Mr H replied 
saying that he had nothing further to add in respect of my provisional findings around the 
excess mileage charge. Mr H though did say that he felt that the evidence he had already 
provided showed that he would not have agreed to drive newer models of cars because of 
his financial constraints at the time. And that he would not have agreed to do this if this was 
going to have a greater direct or indirect financial impact on him. Mr H also said that he 
suffered a significant financial detriment by not being able to hand back the car subject to the 
third agreement because of the VT figure being so high. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to think both parties for their replies to my provisional decision. As Sytner has 
provided no further comments, I will now just focus on Mr Hs reply. 
Mr H has said that he would not have agreed to take on further agreements for further cars if 
this was going to impact him financially. And that his financial situation at the time (and in the 
future) was of more importance than any desire to drive newer models of cars. I do 
understand Mr Hs position here. And I appreciate that it was Sytners salesman who 
initiated the discussions about the new arrangements each time.  However, I still cant 
discount the possibility that Mr H would still have chosen to acquire the newer models of cars anyway. I appreciate Mr H will disagree with me. But it wasnt beyond the realms of 
possibility that Mr H would have entered into each agreement with the intention of keeping 
the cars until the end of each agreement. So, I cant discount that Mr H would still have 
agreed to enter into each agreement if the salesman had gone through things in more detail. 
Mr H has said that his voluntary termination liability under the third agreement was such that 
he decided to keep the car and terminate a separate agreement for his wifes car. And that 
has led to him suffering financial detriment. However, that liability has arisen because of a 
change in Mr Hs circumstances which meant that he no longer needed the car. That would 
not have been foreseeable at the time Mr H entered into the agreement. Ultimately, the 
salesman structured the deals to put Mr H into the cars to fit his budget at the time. I 
wouldnt have expected the salesman to have specifically pointed out Mr Hs potential 
voluntary termination figure if Mr H was to terminate the agreement part way through and 
this is something that Mr H could have discussed with him at the time. Ive not seen 
compelling evidence that this happened though. 
So, for the reasons given, I will not uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint. I see no reason 
though to depart from my provisional findings about the part of Mr Hs complaint relating to 
the excess mileage charge he incurred from V, as Ive received no further comments or 
evidence about this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, and in this decision, Mr H should be 
reimbursed the excess mileage charge he incurred (with interest). Mr H should also be paid 
a sum for the inconvenience this matter has caused him.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Sytner Group Limited to:
pay Mr H £2,848.32 to reimburse him for the excess mileage cost he incurred; 
add interest on this sum at the rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr H 
paid the cost to the date of settlement; and
pay Mr H £200 for the inconvenience this matter has caused him.
If Sytner considers it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award, it should provide 
Mr H with a tax deduction certificate so that he may claim this back from HMRC if applicable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman