DRN-3481165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) hasnt reimbursed them for 
all of their loss after Mr V was the victim of a scam.
What happened
On 28 December 2020 Mr V received a call from scammers claiming to be calling from his 
internet provider. They knew his name and that he was a customer of this particular provider. 
They asked him if hed been experiencing connection issues, which he had, and he was told 
this was the result of hackers accessing his network.
During the call, the scammers told Mr V they were transferring him to someone at Metro 
Bank. They convinced him to download an app which allowed the scammers to access his 
phone, although Mr V says he didnt realise this at the time. 
Mr V says the scammers talked him through what to do and while he was carrying out the 
transactions started giving him further details relating to his online banking, which he didnt 
realise they could see, and further convinced him he was genuinely speaking to Metro Bank.
Mr V was told his and Mrs Vs joint bank account was at risk and hed need to transfer their 
money to a safe account in order to protect it. He told Metro Bank he was told by scammers 
his network had a virus that could allow people to access his account and he had to empty 
his bank account in order to remove it. Mr V has said he asked why he couldnt move the 
money to a different account, they told him this wasnt possible, it would only work if he sent 
his money to the specific accounts they told him to. During the phone call, Mr V made eight 
separate transfers of £2,500 to several different accounts provided by scammers.
Metro Bank refunded 50% of the payments to Mr V. It acknowledged it hadnt provided 
effective warnings against continuing with the payments he was making. But, it didnt think 
Mr V had a reasonable basis for believing what the scammers had told him. So it felt he was 
partly liable for the loss. It felt he shouldve done more to check he was genuinely speaking 
to his internet provider.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary I 
said that:
I was satisfied the payments Mr V made to scammers fell under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Metro Bank had accepted it was liable for 50% of Mr Vs loss because it hadnt 
provided him with any effective warnings as defined by the code. Because it had 
already accepted liability regarding this point I didnt consider it any further.
The code also sets out that one of the exceptions to reimbursement is if Mr V made 
the payments to the scammers without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. Metro Bank felt it had demonstrated Mr V didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief in this case and having considered the circumstances I agreed.
The scammers told Mr V they were calling from his internet provider, but aside from 
his name didnt have any personal information about him as I thought a reasonable 
person would expect a company they were a customer of to have. Mr V has said he 
told the scammer he wanted to contact his internet provider directly to verify what he 
was being told. He said he didnt do this because the scammer insisted they were his 
internet provider and Mr V accepted this despite them not providing any further 
personal information or explanation. The scammers told Mr V they could see his 
bank accounts were at risk but I didnt think they could plausibly explain why an 
internet provider would have access to this information. I also didnt think some of the 
other things they told him were plausible, such as, they could only assist with the 
virus connected to his network if his bank account had been emptied. 
The scammer then claimed they were passing Mr V through to someone at his own 
bank to talk to, which I thought ought to have seemed odd to Mr V given its a 
separate company. Mr V then discussed his bank account information with this 
second scammer without going through any of the security measures I thought a 
reasonable person would expect to go through when speaking to their bank. Mr V 
was told he had to move money in several, separate transactions to different 
accounts and had to download software, seemingly with no explanation, which he 
accepted. And, although Mr V says he asked why he couldnt move money to a 
separate account of his own, he was told it had to be the account provided without a 
plausible explanation.
Although I understood Mr V had been unwell and considered himself vulnerable, I felt 
there were a number of different factors that ought reasonably to have concerned 
him and prompted him to check what he was being told before handing over his 
money. So I agreed he was liable for 50% of the loss.
That said, I also felt Metro Bank shouldve recognised this type of repeated 
transaction, to multiple new payees in a short period might be an indication of fraud 
and it ought to have intervened from the second payment Mr V made to scammers. 
Had it done so I was satisfied it likely wouldve prevented the payments being made 
from that point, so I felt additional interest was due.
I felt Metro Bank had done everything I wouldve expected in trying to recall the funds 
when it was informed of the scam but unfortunately most of the money had been 
moved on and couldnt be returned.
Metro Bank responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further comments to 
add. Mr and Mrs V didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party have made any comments or provided any new information for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision which Ive 
summarised above.
Metro Bank has already refunded to Mr and Mrs V 50% of all payments made to the 
scammers so it doesnt need to do anything further regarding their actual loss as Im 
satisfied they share liability for this.
If it hasnt already, Metro Bank needs to return the £4.61 it was able to recover from 
the beneficiary banks to Mr and Mrs V.
Interest should be paid from the second payment Mr V made onwards at the rate 
applicable to account the money was moved from, from the date the payments were 
made to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Metro Bank PLC needs to make the award outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman