DRN-3189937
The complaint
Mr S has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) service 
in connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to AA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident. AA initially told him that it would deal with his claim on a 
total loss basis, which meant it would pay him the market value of the car. But, some weeks 
later it told Mr S it would arrange for a garage to repair his car. Mr S complained. AA 
acknowledged delays and lack of communication and offered Mr S £100 compensation to 
address that. 
Mr S didn't think AA had done enough to put things right and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it. In his most recent assessment of the complaint he 
explained he was only looking at Mr S concerns up to 31 August 2021, which was the date 
AA had replied to Mr S initial complaint. Our investigator felt AA should increase the 
compensation payable to £200. AA didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Im aware Mr S has ongoing complaints about the AA concerning events that happened from 
1 September 2021 onwards. But, we are looking at those complaints under a separate 
reference number. And, in this decision I'm only looking at matters up until AA issued its 
response to Mr S complaint on 31 August 2021. 
It seems that after Mr S described the damage done to his car AA initially thought this would 
result in the car being uneconomical to repair. So it told Mr S it would treat the car as a total 
loss. It might help if I explain that insurers like AA will usually deem a car to be a total loss 
where its either not safe to be repaired or its not economical to do so. In this case, after 
mechanics eventually assessed Mr S car they thought it was safe to repair and said the 
estimated cost to repair it was considerably less than its market value. On that basis AA 
decided that the car was repairable. Thats a decision Mr S policy allows AA to arrive at. 
And given there was no good reason to decide Mr S car was a total loss, I don't think AA did 
anything wrong in deciding that the car was repairable, regardless that Mr S might have 
preferred AA to treat it as a total loss. 
But, prior to that, shortly after Mr S reported the accident AA told him it would deal with the 
matter as a total loss. That wasn't the appropriate advice. And in giving Mr S that information 
AA clearly raised his expectations that it would soon pay his claim on a total loss basis. So 
its likely he expected the matter to be sorted out with the minimum of fuss. But that didn't 
happen and over four weeks passed without the AA updating Mr S on what was going on. 
I can understand that, given he was simply waiting for AA to pay his claim, this would have 
been frustrating for him as AA didn't provide any explanation for the apparent delay. I don't 
think that was fair or reasonable.
When replying to Mr S complaint AA acknowledge its significant delay and said it wasn't 
able to provide any justification for that. But, in response to our investigator's assessment of 
the complaint, AA said that delays happened at various points because of poor 
communication or other delays by its agents. But AA remains responsible for the actions of 
its agents, and I don't find the explanations its provided to us reduce the impact of the 
delays or poor communication on Mr S. And I note it accepted its handling of the matter had 
an impact on Mr S and offered him £100 to put things right. Mr S doesn't think that sum goes 
far enough, so I've thought carefully about whether further compensation is warranted.
When Mr S brought his complaint to us he told us that matters with the AA were making him 
feel drained and depressed. I've also seen that he said to AA he was feeling distressed 
and shocked and that 5 weeks of not knowing what is happening is now taking its toll. 
AAs told us that it doesn't think its solely responsible for Mr S mental health. That might 
be the case but it's clear to me that Mr S believed AA's delays and lack of communication 
was having a profound effect on him and causing him distress. I have no good reason to 
doubt Mr S evidence that this is what he was feeling because AA let him down. So, in those 
circumstances, where Mr S has reported feeling distressed, shocked, drained and 
depressed I don't think the £100 compensation AA offered goes far enough to address the 
impact of its unfair handling of the claim on Mr S. Instead I think £200 is a reasonable 
compensation figure as it's in line with awards we make in other cases where the impact on 
the consumer is of similar seriousness.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to increase the compensation payable to Mr S for his complaint up to 
31 August 2021 to £200. If AA has already paid Mr S £100 for this period then it need 
only pay him a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman