DRN-1782120
 
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance) allowed a fraudulent loan to be taken out in her name.
What happened
In January 2019, an ID thief took out a loan in Miss Ps name.
In March 2019, Miss P reported this to Clydesdale, who sent her a fraud pack to complete. 
Miss P initially didnt feel comfortable filling this in and didnt return it until April 2019, after 
which Clydesdale wrote off the loan and removed it from her credit file.
In the meantime, Miss P says her credit card company reduced her limit because of the 
negative information on her credit file. She explained this caused her problems when trying 
to pay for things for a very important life event. Shes asked for compensation for what 
happened.
Clydesdale said theyd done the appropriate credit checks, and unfortunately the ID thief had 
got hold of enough of Miss Ps details to take out the loan. They said theyd acted relatively 
quickly in both sending the fraud pack and in investigating things once Miss P returned it.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint, as they 
felt Clydesdale had acted reasonably. Miss P didnt agree, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
First, I will say that I understand Miss P has been the victim of a crime here, and so she has 
my sympathy. I can imagine that the fraudsters have caused her a good deal of distress, and 
Im sorry to hear that it interfered with her planning such an important event.
Its worth bearing in mind that we expect businesses to carry out checks that are 
proportionate to the credit being taken out. So, for example, the checks wed expect for a 
large, long-term, secured mortgage are quite different to the checks wed expect for a 
relatively small, short-term, unsecured loan like this. Here, it seems that the fraudsters had 
Miss Ps correct key personal details, and were able to correctly answer questions posed by 
the credit reference agency  though there isnt still a record of what those exact questions 
were. But they passed the relevant checks.
In this case, I think the responsibility for Miss Ps distress lies more with the actions of the 
fraudsters, rather than Clydesdale.
Of course, Clydesdale needed to investigate the fraud when Miss P confirmed the account 
wasnt hers, and once they found it was fraudulent they needed to take the loan out of her 
name and remove it from her credit file. But theyve already done that. And it looks like they 
acted relatively quickly in sending out the fraud pack and then acting on it once it was 
returned. I do understand that Miss P felt reluctant to fill the pack out, and had her reasons 
for not returning it at first. But that was ultimately what caused the delay here, and I dont 
think that was Clydesdales fault. Indeed, Miss P did acknowledge that she waited until her 
credit file was affected before sorting things out.
So I dont think Clydesdale did something substantially wrong here that would require them 
to pay Miss P compensation.
I also understand that Miss P is concerned about Clydesdales account opening procedures 
more widely. But were only here to look at complaints about individual situations  I cant 
comment on Clydesdales processes as a whole. Its the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) who looks at the overall regulation of businesses and their processes.
I have contacted Miss Ps credit card company separately, who have agreed to restore her 
credit limit as an informal goodwill gesture, separate to this complaint against Clydesdale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman