DRN-1662457
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the settlement that Chubb European Group SE has offered him 
following a claim he made on his cashback accident plan.
What happened
Mr E took out a cashback accident plan to cover him for motocross racing. Hes had the 
policy for a long time and has made a number of successful claims on the policy.
 
In September 2019 he was involved in an accident and was admitted to hospital for his 
injuries, including fractured ribs. He claimed on his insurance policy. Chubb settled the claim 
and paid £1, 050 to Mr E. 
Mr E made a complaint to Chubb because he said he hadnt received the policy benefit for 
fractures. Chubb explained that fractured ribs were excluded under the policy terms and had 
checked with their Chief Medical Officer (CMO) whether any of the fractures could be 
considered as non-rib fractures. But the CMO had concluded that the evidence didnt 
support that. Unhappy, Mr E complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that Chubb had settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. Mr E didnt 
agree as he said that the investigator didnt seem to understand the point  he says he had a 
fracture of the costochondral joint. He argues a rib is a rib and a costochondral joint is a 
costochondral joint. 
So I need to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the policy mis-sold? 
Mr E says that the policy was mis-sold as he was told by Chubb that fractures to the rib were 
covered. As Mr E took out his policy over 10 years ago the application form isnt available 
but Ive seen a sample copy. I can see that the application form explains fractures to the ribs 
arent covered. 
The policy has renewed annually and Mr E has been sent copies of the policy 
documentation which also explain that rib fractures arent covered. So, if this was something 
that was particularly important to him then it was open to him to cancel the policy. 
Finally, Mr E has made a number of claims on the policy and has received benefits 
amounting to over £7000. So that further persuades me that this policy was suitable for his 
demands and needs. 
Was the claim unfairly declined? 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Chubb has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions define a fracture as: 
The breaking of one or more bones in the body, other than fingers, thumbs, nose, 
toes, ribs or teeth  diagnosed within three months of the date of the accident and 
certified by a Consultant Physician. 
I dont think Chubb have rejected Mr Es claim unreasonably for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
The documentation from the hospital where Mr E was treated says: 
Injuries are centred on the anterior upper thorax involving both first costochondral 
junctions and chondromanubrial joints. There is a fracture with displacement of the 
right first costochondral joint and an anterolateral fracture of the second rib. There is 
a tight apical pneumothorax which communications through the costochondral joint 
disruption with surgical emphysema which extends over the right anterior chest and 
into the neck on the right. There is also disruption of the left sternoclavicular joint 
Diagnoses: Pneumothorax, surgical emphysema, multiple rib fractures.
Whilst the consultant referred to the costochondral joint Ive also taken into account the 
information from Chubbs Chief Medical Officer who said: 
The costochondral junction is where the rib and the cartilage meet and then it 
attaches to the sternum (part of which is the manubrium). The CT does not describe 
any fracture to the sternum only to the cartilage joints and ribs. It mentions that the 
sternoclavicular joint is also dislocated but doesnt advise that either of the bones are 
fractured within this joint. Therefore, there are only rib fractures according to the 
information we have
Chubb is entitled to rely of the opinion of its medical team. And I also note that what is said 
is consistent with information on the NHS website which says that the costochondral joint is 
cartilage which joins the ribs to the breast bone. It goes on to say that cartilage is tough but 
flexible connective tissue found throughout the body, including in the joints between bones. 
And it acts a shock absorber, cushioning the joints. 
Mr E hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that a fracture of the costochondral joint can 
be considered as a bone fracture in the way he suggest. All of the information above 
persuades me that it is most likely that a fracture of the costochondral joint doesnt meet the 
policy terms as it isnt a fracture of the bone. And, as fractures of the ribs are excluded under 
the policy terms, I dont think Chubb needs to make any further payments.
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman