DRN-3222796
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with a claim under a 
block insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M made an insurance claim due to a flood. Zurich investigated the claim and agreed a 
cash settlement. Mrs M was unhappy about how the works were carried out, so she 
complained to Zurich.
Zurich provided two responses to Mrs Ms complaint. The first response said it had agreed a 
cash settlement and Zurich wasnt responsible for work carried out by contractors appointed 
by Mrs M or the property management company. Zurich had agreed to pay the cost of 
installing a damp proof course (DPC). But this didnt include the bathroom because that area 
wasnt covered under the settlement. It said Mrs M could forward a list for it to consider if she 
thought Zurich had directly caused issues with the DPC. But any additional costs caused by 
the actions of her contractors would need to be addressed with the contractors. 
Zurich also said Mrs M had also still not returned to her home because of continued 
drainage problems. It had reviewed a drainage report which confirmed that the anti-flood 
valve installed during the drainage works wasnt functioning correctly because of the 
presence of non-flushable wipes. Mrs M had also said tree roots were causing further floods, 
but no evidence had been provided to support this. However, a company working for Zurich 
was talking to the water company about this issue. If it was found to be an insured event, 
Zurich would consider this.
Zurich said Mrs M had also said the drainage and leak detection companies had damaged 
the external drain system. It had reviewed a report, but this didnt show any damage other 
than age related wear and tear, which Zurich was inclined to accept. Zurich also said it was 
unable to comment on any disagreements with contractors appointed after the cash 
settlement was made.
In Zurichs second response, it said the position of the manhole cover couldnt be moved as 
it was in line with current building regulations. It said the storage costs had been agreed until 
the property became habitable, which it now was. Zurich also said no-one had been notified 
of damage to the plaster and no photographs were provided. If Mrs M had evidence of this, 
Zurich would consider this. It offered £200 compensation for any delays and inconvenience 
caused by Zurich to Mrs M.
So, Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt need to do anything further. 
She said Zurich had dealt with the issues that were its responsibility reasonably, including 
agreeing to consider further evidence if Mrs M provided it. However, Zurich had cash settled 
the claim and wasnt responsible for the actions of Mrs Ms contractors.
As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Zurich to do anything further. I will explain why.
This has clearly been a lengthy and complex claim. Ive been provided with a substantial 
amount of information and evidence about what happened as part of this claim, all of which 
Ive read. However, Im mindful that Zurich cash settled the claim and it isnt responsible for 
the actions of, or issues caused by, the contractors Mrs M or the property company 
appointed. I am only considering the issues that were for Zurich to deal with.
Mrs M complained about the positioning of a manhole cover, which meant it was now directly 
outside her back door. Zurich explained to Mrs M that the manhole had to be positioned 
where it was due to building regulations. Having looked at this, I can see that Zurich did 
assess the position of the manhole and whether it was in the correct place and concluded it 
couldnt be moved. So, I think Zurich did look into Mrs Ms concerns, but the manhole had to 
be positioned where it was. I think Zurich acted reasonably in how it dealt with this issue.
Mrs M was also concerned about continued drainage problems. I can see that when Zurich 
replied to the complaint that it was looking at the drainage problems, including possible 
causes and whether this was an insured event. When Zurich responded to the complaint, it 
hadnt found evidence of any issues that were for it to deal with. However, it invited Mrs M to 
provide further evidence if she disagreed with this. In the circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable.
Mrs M also complained about the storage costs, issues with the plastering and with the DPC. 
Zurich agreed to pay for storage costs until Mrs Ms home became habitable. At the time 
Zurich responded to the complaint, it said the recent sewage issue had now been dealt with, 
so Mrs Ms home was now habitable. So, I think it was reasonable that Zurich agreed to 
cover storage costs until that point. If there were issues with the storage costs after the date 
of the second final response, Mrs M would need to raise this as a new complaint with Zurich. 
Zurich also said issues with the plastering hadnt previously been raised. It said it would 
consider any evidence about the plaster if Mrs M wanted to provide this. Im also aware that 
Zurich explained why it was willing to install a DPC in part of the property, even though this 
didnt form part of the claim itself. I havent seen anything to show that Zurich needed to 
install a DPC in the bathroom in order to deal with the claim. Im also aware that Zurich didnt 
install the DPC. This was done by contractors appointed following the cash settlement. 
Zurich said poor workmanship therefore wasnt its responsibility. However, it said that if Mrs 
M could provide evidence of poor workmanship that was Zurichs responsibility, it would 
consider this. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Mrs M had other concerns about the claim, but she would need to raise these with 
Zurich in the first instance, so it has the opportunity to consider the issues.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont require Zurich Insurance PLC 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman