DRN-3996407
The complaint
Mr S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling of his claim 
following an accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to Admiral as a result of damage cause to his car. He raised several 
concerns with its handling of the matter. The complaint he raised was referred to our service. 
This was dealt with separately. I wont comment on the issues covered in that complaint 
here. 
Mr S raised further issues in his referral to our service that Admiral hadnt responded to. We 
forwarded these concerns to Admiral for it to provide its complaint response. Admiral 
responded to Mr S in May 2021. He wasnt satisfied with its response and asked our service 
to consider these points as well. 
There was a delay in our service considering these further issues. However, Mr S did include 
these points in his first referral to our service. His understanding was that all points would be 
considered. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP rules say that a referral must be 
made within six months of an insurers final complaint response. Mr S was late following this 
up as he has been ill in hospital. He says he also thought these points were already being 
considered by our service. 
The DISP rules allow consideration of a complaint where there are exceptional 
circumstances. In this case I think its reasonable to consider these complaint points. I note 
Admiral hasnt objected to this.    
Mr S raised seven concerns about the handling of his claim. Admiral upheld one of these 
points about who had identified a chip in his windscreen. It says it wasnt clear who had 
identified the chip. But it shouldnt have assumed this was Mr S, as it did in its response. 
Admiral apologised to Mr S for any upset this caused him. It didnt uphold the remaining 
points. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He acknowledged the error relating to who 
had identified the chipped windscreen. But he thought Admirals apology was sufficient in 
response.
Mr S didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Let me explain.
Ive set out my findings under the relevant headings for ease of reading. 
A copy of the engineers report wasnt provided as requested
In its complaint response Admiral says it listened to the call when Mr S was told it was 
arranging an independent engineer to inspect his vehicle. It says he didnt ask for a copy of 
the report. It also says it hasnt received a request for this information via any other contact. 
A copy of the report has since been provided, but Admiral says it didnt fail to act on a 
request for information. 
Ive read all of the contact notes and records provided by Admiral. I cant find reference to Mr 
S asking for a copy of an engineers report. Its reasonable to expect a copy of this 
information would be provided if requested. But I cant see that it was. I dont dispute Mr Ss 
recollection that he asked for a copy of the report  but I havent seen evidence that shows 
this to be the case. Based on this I dont think Admiral reasonably needs to do anything 
further in relation to this point. 
Admiral sent a cheque to Mr S for repairs, without stating what the repairs were for
I can see from Admirals first response to Mr Ss complaint that it explained it had provided a 
payment for £854.12 so he could get his vehicle repaired. This letter says its assessor 
identified issues with the rear interior light; a fastening missing from the boot floor and 
interior trim panel; and that the rear bumpers needed re-aligning. 
In its letter Admiral says the cheque for £854.12 will be sent within seven to ten days. 
Based on this evidence I think Mr S was made aware what the cheque payment was for. So, 
I wont be asking Admiral to do anything further.  
The car required a valet after the repairs due to a residue 
Admiral says it wasnt made aware of any issues with a residue on Mr Ss car after it was 
repaired. It says it contacted its repairer and it confirmed the car was washed, waxed, and 
vacuumed before it was returned  this is part of its expected service. 
Ive read the information provided by both parties. But I havent seen evidence that shows Mr 
Ss car was returned in an unclean state that required a valet. I note Mr Ss comments that 
there was a white residue on his car. He says the assessor told him this would be from the 
wax/buffer the garage had used. Also, that had this gone inside, where the bumper was 
misaligned, this could cause further damage. 
I dont dispute Mr Ss recollection of these events. But I must consider all the available 
evidence. I dont think this shows Admirals repairer returned Mr Ss car in an unclean state. 
And I havent seen evidence that there was a potential for further damage to be caused 
because of a residue. So, I wont require Admiral to take any action in relation to this issue. 
Admiral said Mr S told the engineer about a chipped windscreen, when this was actually 
noticed by the engineer
Admiral accepts it shouldnt have assumed Mr S noticed the chipped windscreen. It says it 
didnt put this on its instruction to the repairer so assumed this had been raised by Mr S. 
I cant see that Mr S reported this damage from the information provided. I think its 
reasonable that Admiral apologised for assuming he had. But I dont think this has had a 
significant impact, so I wont ask it to do anything more. 
Car returned with a chipped bonnet  I can see this issue was addressed in Mr Ss earlier complaint. Our investigator commented 
on this point in his view. However, this relates to a separate complaint that has already been 
dealt with. I wont comment further on this issue here. 
Admiral sent a letter confirming the third party admitted liability. 
Admiral says it didnt send a letter confirming this. It says the claim was referred to its 
solicitors. And it has asked it to investigate. It says it cant rule out the solicitors having sent 
a letter, but it doesnt have access to its systems to verify. 
I havent seen evidence that shows Admiral wrote to Mr S to say the third party admitted 
liability. In the absence of anything to support this point, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Admiral provided incorrect information.
Admirals solicitors gave an inconsistent version of events for the third-party  Mr S asked if 
Admirals fraud team would investigate but received no response.  
Admiral says it has received no request from Mr S relating to this issue. It says as Mr Ss 
case has been passed to its solicitors, he may have had this conversation with it. Admiral 
says it has passed Mr Ss concerns onto the solicitors to provide a response.
I havent seen information that supports Mr Ss concerns here. I think its reasonable that the 
points raised have been passed on to Admirals solicitors. But I dont think this warrants any 
further action. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Mr S has shown that Admiral treated him unfairly. 
Admiral has acknowledged its incorrect assumption about the chipped windscreen. Im 
satisfied that its apology is sufficient in response to this point. Because of this I cant 
reasonably ask Admiral to do anymore.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman