DRN-3403539
The complaint
Miss K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One (Capital One) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account and a credit limit increase that she couldnt 
afford.
What happened
In September 2015, Miss K applied for a credit card account with Capital One. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £1,000. The credit limit was increased in April 2017 to £1250.  
In 2021, Miss K complained to Capital One to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ks complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. And they had 
thought for how Miss K was managing her account in deciding the increase to the credit 
limit. Its possible that Capital One failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss K 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Capital 
One to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss K told Capital One at the point of lending that she was employed 
and her income was regular and not modest. The initial credit limit was not an excessive 
or unreasonable amount given the income and the maximum monthly payments for that 
credit were not immodest. 
Ive also noted that at the point of the initial lending Miss Ks credit history appeared to be 
in good order; no defaults or CCJs etc. There appears to have been two instances of late 
payments in the preceding twelve months. But overall, there was nothing in that credit 
picture that would, I think, have put Capital One off lending the reasonably modest amount 
it did, for a credit card, in 2015. 
And by 2017 Capital One had a year and a half of Miss Ks management of the credit card 
account it could also consider when making a lending decision. I note that all the 
payments up to the time of the credit limit increase in 2017 were made on time and in full. 
And some payments were in excess of the minimum payment required. 
And reviewing Miss Ks bank statements from the time, I have seen that whilst there was a 
lot of traffic on the account, and that Miss K seemed to operate throughout with a negative 
balance, I have noted that the account remained largely balanced between credits and 
debits. Again, I do not think these statements would have put Capital One off supplying 
the credit it did had they known about them at the time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss K to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Capital One to think that the credit it 
provided Miss K was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss K was 
managing her account or what Capital One could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss K will be disappointed with my decision, in itself, because she has put time 
and energy into her complaint and because Miss K mentioned she had a previous complaint 
upheld. I want Miss K to know that we consider all cases on their own particular merits and I 
want Miss K to know that I considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done 
so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman