DRN-3289066
The complaint
Miss T has complained Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, 
added a fraud-related marker to her record and wouldnt remove it despite her confirming 
how this happened.
What happened
In 2019 Miss T applied for finance so she could buy a car. The supplier (who Ill call R) took 
details and submitted these. Oodle was the finance company introduced to Miss T by R and 
the credit intermediary. Oodle checked the information supplied  including two addresses 
where Miss T had lived in the preceding three years. They noted this didnt match 
information on Miss Ts credit record. 
There was a third address where Miss T had lived during this period. A default was also 
shown linked to this address. Oodle rejected her finance application. They also loaded what 
had happened as application fraud with the industry fraud database, CIFAS. They believed 
the customer had intentionally falsified her address history to conceal the adverse seen.
Miss T was notified of this CIFAS marker by her employer (A) in 2020. As she was employed 
within the insurance industry, this had an impact on her future employment. Miss T 
complained to Oodle. They didnt believe the information she provided  that this address 
had belonged to her abusive ex-partner  made them change their mind.
Miss T brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She told us shed not intentionally 
misled Oodle when applying for finance. In fact her father had completed the online 
application on her behalf. She also pointed out the credit intermediary hadnt picked up on 
her address history when discussing the application with her. She also confirmed shed felt 
pressured and bullied by A and believed the CIFAS marker had directly led to her leaving 
employment. She wanted compensation for what had happened.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Miss T and her representative, 
Mr T, and Oodle. He believed that Miss T had omitted to provide information about the 
address to Oodle. However he didnt think Oodle had properly investigated what Miss T had 
done as required before lodging a marker with CIFAS. He also couldnt see that Oodle had 
considered the impact of Miss Ts vulnerability. He asked them to remove the marker from 
her record but didnt offer any compensation.
Oodle believed they had followed the relevant rules. They were concerned that further 
investigation would have led to tipping off Miss T why her application was under review.
Miss T was stunned that our service couldnt see how the CIFAS marker directly led to her 
terminating her employment.
This complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 January 2022.
Miss T accepted the outcome. She, however, corrected my understanding about her 
interaction with Oodle. She said the CIFAS marker referred to information about two 
addresses that were linked with her. She was more than happy to accept shed lived at one 
as shed been on the electoral roll there but had never lived at the other property which was 
linked to her ex-partner. This was the issue she was highlighting with Oodle.
Oodle agreed to remove the CIFAS marker from Miss Ts record. However they felt the 
compensation being offered was high and meant Miss T was being rewarded for submitting 
false information. They also stated We also have an obligation to report this omitted 
address to CIFAS whatever the circumstances are as per CIFAS guidelines. 
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. I explain 
why below covering those issues that both Oodle and Miss T has raised with us.
Firstly I want to refer to the rules for lodging a marker with CIFAS. Oodle has provided us 
with a screenshot of CIFASs rules and leaflet. Our service requires any business to have 
undertaken sufficient checks to satisfy themselves they have enough grounds to press 
criminal charges as a result of what happened. This I believe matches CIFASs own rules.
Oodle has also said theyre obliged to report this omitted address information to CIFAS. Im 
not sure where this comes from. I accept this may be their internal policy but theres no 
CIFAS obligation.
Im aware that Oodle checked Miss Ts record with more than one credit reference agency to 
identify the information about the unrecorded address. I appreciate they didnt contact Miss T 
as they didnt want to alert her to the nature of their investigation. However without evidence 
from both sides Im not convinced there would have been enough grounds for pressing 
criminal charges
And that aspect is key here. I appreciate Oodle had no intention of pressing criminal charges 
and the rules dont require them to do so. But would they have satisfied the threshold for 
bringing criminal charges?
Theres no dispute Miss T provided incorrect information in response to a question about her 
addresses within the last three years. Im aware she says the application was made by her 
father but it was in her name. So it would have been her responsibility to ensure the 
information was correct.
I can also see that a further application was made for finance in January 2020. The same 
address information was omitted then as well. 
I have considered what Miss Ts motive would have been for this. In my provisional decision 
I referred to evidence Oodle gave us which suggested Miss T had changed her story about 
the addresses when she contacted them. Miss T has now provided copies of information 
shed been given by CIFAS and her contact with them. I can see there were two addresses 
supposedly undisclosed in her credit application. She was more than happy to admit shed 
lived at one with her ex-partner as she was on the electoral roll. But I agree with her she was 
telling Oodle that shed never lived at another address which was linked to her CIFAS record. Ive seen no other evidence which shows Miss T  despite what shes said  was 
living at this address.
Miss T has insisted to us that she was avoiding mention of the one address she admitted to 
living at because of the impact her time there had had on her. Ive seen evidence that the 
police had to take action against her ex-partner to protect Miss T so dont dispute what shes 
been telling us about him.
I can also see that the default which was related to this address was only added to Miss Ts 
credit record in April 2019 a couple of months before she applied for finance. All 
correspondence relating to this was more than likely sent to the address shed not lived at for 
about a year at least. I think its more than possible she wasnt even aware of the default. 
This suggests to me that her unwillingness to mention this address wasnt related to the 
default but about the memories of her time at this address. Oodle has questioned this but I 
dont agree the evidence supports their view.
Overall therefore I dont believe Miss T misled Oodle with a view to committing fraud. If 
Oodle had carried out an investigation as I believe would have been appropriate, they may 
well have discovered this.
Miss T works in a specific industry and was employed by A. A carries out random checks 
into their employees. They noted in April 2020 that a CIFAS marker was registered against 
Miss T and asked her to explain this. At the time Miss T confirmed she had no idea what a 
cifas was. 
It was at that stage she appealed to Oodle and then brought her complaint to our service. 
Unfortunately due to the volume of work at the service weve not been in a position to 
progress her complaint as quickly as we would normally. 
Miss T subsequently left employment with A but believed this amounted to constructive 
dismissal. She lodged a grievance against her employer and has shared these detailed 
documents with us.
Its clear from these that she felt bullied and harassed about having a CIFAS marker lodged 
on her record and what A was expecting her to do to get this removed. Miss T had told A her 
complaint was with our service. I believe from the evidence Miss T has shared with us that A 
was willing to wait to see how her complaint would develop.
During the early period of national lockdown, it appears Miss T  along with many other 
employees  agreed a workplan with A to enable her caring responsibilities. Despite what 
Miss T has told use, I still believe its clear from documents she lodged with A about her 
employment grievance that how the care plan developed was also part of her issues with A.
I appreciate Miss T felt bullied and that A was constantly asking her about the CIFAS marker 
but Im not sure the evidence shes shared with us demonstrates this fully. A number of 
things can contribute to someone deciding to leave an organisation. Periods of national 
lockdown, working from home and the impact of changed hours and salary also contributed I 
believe to Miss Ts decision to leave As employment.
I dont think it would be fair to say the CIFAS marker was the single contributing factor.
Putting things right
I dont dispute the CIFAS marker had a significant impact on Miss Ts mental health and 
must have been a worry when she found out what was happening. This was possibly more than may have been the case for other individuals as this followed on from Miss Ts anxiety 
about her treatment in a previous relationship.
I think its fair Oodle remove the CIFAS marker from Miss Ts record.
I dont agree with Oodle that Miss T is being disproportionately compensated. I see she lost 
as much as £10,000 worth of shares from the decision she made to leave As employment 
so I could have awarded significantly more compensation. Having considered all the issues 
involved, I believe Oodle should pay Miss T compensation. I think £750 is a fair and 
reasonable amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance to:
Remove the CIFAS marker from Miss Ts record; and
Pay her £750 for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman