DRN-3145460
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out sufficient due diligence 
activities when he asked to transfer some pension savings to a Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) in January 2015.
What happened
Mr S has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr S himself.
Mr S held pension savings with Scottish Widows. During 2014, advisors acting on behalf of 
Mr S made a number of approaches to Scottish Widows to be provided with information 
about his pension savings. In July 2014, at Mr Ss request Scottish Widows provided 
information to a firm registered by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In August 2014 
Scottish Widows refused to provide information to another firm that didnt appear on the FCA 
register. But it later reversed that decision when the firm showed it was an appointed 
representative of another firm registered with an overseas regulator, and so held the rights to 
act as an advisor in the UK. But Scottish Widows said it would only send information to the 
registered overseas address of the advisor  and not a UK correspondence address that the 
firm was using. 
On two occasions, when writing to Mr S about not accepting the authority hed given to the 
overseas firm, Scottish Widows directed Mr S to some information about pension liberation 
and unauthorised advisors on the website of The Pensions Regulator (TPR). But by 
October 2014 Scottish Widows had confirmed to Mr S that he could choose to transfer his 
pension savings to a QROPS, providing that the scheme met UK pensions legislation, and 
Mr S provided the appropriate paperwork and declaration.
The administrator of Mr Ss chosen QROPS, that was based in Hong Kong, wrote to 
Scottish Widows in December 2014, although the letter wasnt received until early the 
following year. That letter provided Scottish Widows with Mr Ss authority for the transfer and 
the necessary documentation about the scheme. Scottish Widows transferred Mr Ss 
pension savings to the QROPS on 20 January 2015.
I understand that since the transfer most of Mr Ss benefits have been moved to an 
alternative QROPS based in Gibraltar. But some of his pension benefits have not been 
transferred. It appears that Mr S had requested a withdrawal from his pension benefits 
(before the legally allowed age of 55). And although those funds had been released to the 
trustee, litigation brought by the administrator of the new QROPS meant they remained 
frozen. And it seems that the investment chosen by Mr S for his pension savings when they 
were originally transferred is largely illiquid.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
Scottish Widows should have done more in its communication with Mr S before the transfer 
was completed. But he didnt think that any additional communication from Scottish Widows 
would have led to Mr S changing his mind about the transfer. So he didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. Although I am only briefly summarising here what he 
and his CMC have said, I want to reassure Mr S that I have read, and carefully considered, 
all the representations that have been made.
Mr Ss CMC says it is clear that Scottish Widows failed to do what it needed to in relation to 
the transfer, both in terms of its internal checks, and its communication with Mr S. It thinks 
that an appropriate level of due diligence by Scottish Widows would have identified the 
warning signs on this transfer. And those should have led Scottish Widows to discuss the 
matter directly with Mr S. Had it done so, the CMC says that, Mr S wouldnt have completed 
the transfer.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The Pension Regulators (TPR) scorpion guidance
The scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013 and updated the following year, in 
July 2014. Several bodies including the FSA (the Financial Services Authority which was 
succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA, shortly afterwards) were part of this 
initiative so its a relevant consideration for personal pension providers like Scottish Widows 
which come under FSA/FCA regulation, rather than TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs 
present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being 
transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and 
pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or 
were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests. The 2014 update replaced many of the 
2013 warnings about pension liberation, with similar warnings about scams.There is no clear evidence that pension liberation was specifically involved in Mr Ss case  
for instance he has not mentioned being offered (or receiving) an up-front lump sum. It does 
seem however that the transfer might have later offered him the opportunity to access some 
of his benefits before the normal minimum age of 55. But its important to say that the other 
typical warning signs of pension liberation (such as cold-calling, funds being moved offshore, 
non-standard investments and an absence of proper advice) are similar to scams. Even so, 
I think it would be a misunderstanding of the Scorpion guidance to conclude that 
Scottish Widows role was to categorically determine whether liberation activity or a scam 
was actually taking place.
TPR made clear in its guidance that it was the ceding schemes role to assess whether 
warning signs of pension liberation or scams were present, and if they were to carry out 
further investigation and establish if Mr S understood the risks inherent in the type of scheme 
he was transferring to. That applied whether or not, in the fullness of time, the transfer or 
investment turned out to be liberation or a scam. It also applied whether or not Mr S changed 
his mind about transferring. Whilst Scottish Widows did have the option of exploring whether 
to refuse the transfer in certain circumstances, there is no dispute in this case that Mr S had 
a statutory and/or contractual right to make it.
In the Action Pack for the Scorpion guidance it published in July 2014 TPR said that ceding 
schemes could use the checklist it provided if any member asked to transfer. It said that 
answering yes to any of the checklist questions individually did not necessarily indicate a 
pension scam, but if several features were present there may be cause for concern.
In my view, where funds are being transferred to a QROPS (in other words the whole 
pension scheme, rather than just some of the investments, are overseas), this in any event 
becomes one of the more significant - perhaps the most significant - warning signs. It is a 
somewhat unusual step for a consumer who remains UK resident to make. I consider it 
would always have warranted further investigation by the ceding scheme, to establish if the 
consumer had legitimate reasons for transferring their whole pension overseas which 
perhaps then made it less likely to be at risk of a scam.
Did Scottish Widows have a basis on which to delay or refuse the transfer?
Scottish Widows has explained that the rules of its personal pension meant a customer had 
a right to transfer their pension plan to any scheme capable (and willing) to accept a 
recognised transfer under Section 169 of the Finance Act 2004. The administrator of the 
QROPS provided Scottish Widows with the relevant paperwork to show its registration with 
HMRC that meant it fulfilled those criteria. Although Scottish Widows hasnt been able to 
show us it validated the registration information with HMRC here, I have no reason to think 
additional enquiries would have highlighted any problems.
Having considered all of this I think Scottish Widows prospects were limited, for delaying or 
blocking Mr Ss transfer - and would most likely have ultimately been unsuccessful. In the 
case of an actual investment scam, it might be expected that engaging further with the 
member about the potential risks they were taking might lead to the member reconsidering 
whether they wanted to transfer in any event  and therefore was a more constructive way 
for Scottish Widows to proceed in the particular circumstances of this case. So Ive next 
considered the possibility that Mr S might have changed his mind about transferring if 
Scottish Widows had got directly in touch with him to explain its concerns.Risk warnings
At a time when the TPR guidance was less prescriptive than it, and other industry codes, 
now are on the degree of contact a transferring scheme should have with the customer, a 
key method of passing on these risk warnings was to issue the scorpion leaflet. Since 
February 2013 TPR had been saying on its website that it would like to see the use of this 
insert in transfer packs for members becoming best practice.
As I have said earlier, Scottish Widows initially had concerns about the registration status of 
the firm asking for information on behalf of Mr S. It wrote to him on two occasions to explain 
that it wouldnt accept the authority he had provided to the firm. And in each letter it directed 
him to the guidance provided by TPR on its website about pension liberation and 
unauthorised advisors.
So Scottish Widows argues that it did effectively provide Mr S with the information it needed 
to under the scorpion guidance. But I think there is a difference in expecting a consumer to 
actively search for information on a website compared with the direct receipt of a specific 
leaflet. So in my view Scottish Widows should have sent the leaflet to Mr S, both to provide 
him with information about the risks he might be facing, and to ensure that it could 
demonstrate it followed the TPR guidance. But I accept its possible Mr S wouldnt have read 
the leaflet had Scottish Widows sent it to him. There isnt a requirement in the guidance for 
Scottish Widows to check he had read and understood the leaflet. 
The Action Pack provided guidance to firms as to the steps they might take should they have 
concerns about a transfer. It suggested firms could:
Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme 
theyll be transferring to and send them the pension scams booklet available 
at www.pension-scams.com
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help 
you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist, where youve 
been unable to answer them with the information you have available
Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it is a scam, or The Pensions 
Advisory Service (TPAS) to discuss the potential consequences of the 
transfer, including tax repercussions, if any part of the arrangement is 
deemed as unauthorised
If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your 
concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could 
still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps.
Scottish Widows own investigations dont show it made any other direct contact with Mr S 
when it provided information about his pension savings or received his formal transfer 
request. But despite what Ive said earlier I dont think I need to formally determine here 
whether or not that was a reasonable approach. Even if I thought it should have seen the 
warning signs that were present Im not persuaded that any further contact from 
Scottish Widows would have made a difference to Mr Ss decision to transfer.
If Scottish Widows had gone further, would it have made a difference?
The Action Pack does suggest getting in touch with the member but that is the only 
expectation  it doesnt specify how that contact should be made, and certainly not that the 
contact should be by telephone. This is left to the discretion of the provider. Although I know 
some providers have tried engaging over the phone it is not without its difficulties, including 
the risk of it being wrongly perceived as a self-interested attempt to retain Mr Ss business. Given that the staff involved in processing payments out of the transferring scheme are 
neither qualified nor authorised to provide financial advice, in reality such a conversation 
would also need to be heavily scripted  and might not end up being a lot more effective 
than a letter. So I couldnt fairly fault Scottish Widows had it decided that it was best to 
engage with Mr S by letter.
And to a degree that is exactly what Scottish Widows did when it first told Mr S that it wasnt 
able to interact with his chosen advisor. I appreciate that it didnt send the scorpion leaflet at 
that time or tell him about any warning signs it had specifically identified in respect of the 
action pack. But it did tell Mr S that it didnt think his advisor was registered with the FCA  
and on that basis it wouldnt accept the letter of authority hed provided. I think the tone of 
that letter might have been sufficient to warn Mr S that his proposed course of action didnt 
come without risks.
Mr S had already taken some significant steps here, and by the time of the formal transfer 
request the process had been ongoing for a number of months. I think it likely there were 
numerous points where someone less committed to changing their pension arrangements 
could easily have pulled out. Obviously, Mr S didnt do so which, to my mind, shows he had 
more than just a passing interest in the transfer. 
So in that context, I dont think any further statements from his old pension provider about 
regulated financial advice being a good idea would have prompted Mr S to take independent 
advice or to pull out of the transfer. I think he would only have done so if he had doubts 
about the transfer and was prepared to unwind the steps he had already taken. Taking 
everything into consideration, I dont think this was likely.
Im not satisfied that flagging up any of the other messages in the scorpion guidance  for 
example the availability of TPAS to discuss any concerns  would have fundamentally 
altered Mr Ss decision to proceed in this case. Im drawn to the regrettable conclusion that 
Mr S was already satisfied enough with the advice he was getting  whether that was from 
the QROPS administrator or the other firm that was involved in the discussions  to have 
been willing to make the decisions he made at the time. I cannot reasonably say he would 
have been deterred from going ahead in spite of any steps Scottish Widows might have 
taken to alert him in line with what Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman