DRN-1964394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time, mis-
sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. And in 2005 they took out a 
further advance on their mortgage, along with another PPI policy. The mortgage and both 
PPI policies were in their joint names. 
Mr and Mrs Y say they cant remember how the PPI policies were sold but Lloyds says the 
sales took place in meetings at a branch.
Mr and Mrs Y say having PPI wasnt a choice at the time.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ys complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree and 
so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken it into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs Y they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Mr and Mrs Y say this didnt happen  they say they had to take it with the 
mortgage. But, other than their recollections of what happened fifteen or more years ago, 
they havent given us any evidence to back up what they say.
Lloyds says it did make it clear to Mr and Mrs Y they had a choice and it says they agreed to 
the PPI. For both policies, Lloyds has sent us Mr and Mrs Ys signed PPI application forms. 
These applications are separate from Mr and Mrs Ys mortgage and further advance 
applications. They set out their personal details, the amount of their mortgage/ further 
advance and the benefit split theyve chosen. In 2002 this benefit split was 50:50; in 2005 it 
was 30% for Mr Y and 70% for Mrs Y. On both occasions, Mr Y also signed separate direct 
debit mandates for the PPI.
From this, I think its more likely than not Lloyds discussed Mr and Mrs Ys insurance needs 
with them in 2002 and 2005 and they agreed to the PPI  including choosing the benefit 
splits they wanted  knowing they didnt have to.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y, so it needed to make sure both 
policies were right for them. From what they say of their circumstances at the time and the 
policy details Ive got, I think they were. I say this because, from this information:
Mr and Mrs Y were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we often see in these types of policy. 
The cost of the policies doesnt look as if it was unaffordable for them, given the 
protection they gave. 
Im not sure what sick pay Mr and Mrs Y got. When they brought their complaint to 
us, they said they both got six months or more but less than 12 months pay. But 
when Mr Y spoke to our adjudicator more recently, he said he got no sick pay while 
Mrs Y got 12 months pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. And 
this was on top of whatever sick pay they got, and quite possibly for longer than their 
sick pay wouldve lasted. It would also have covered Mr and Mrs Y if either of them 
lost their jobs. 
So I think the cover was right for them especially bearing in mind their mortgage and further 
advance were secured against their home, which was at risk if they fell behind with their 
repayments.
Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs Y information about the PPI that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I dont know what was said to Mr and Mrs Y at the time and its possible Lloyds 
couldve done a better job in explaining things. But, as Ive said, I think its likely they agreed 
to the PPI and it was right for them. So I think clearer information  had it been needed  
would only have confirmed this to them and wouldnt have changed their decision to go 
ahead with it on both occasions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman