DRN-1271067
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by MBNA Limited (MBNA). 
What happened
Miss H opened a credit card account in October 2000. Just over a week after the credit card 
was agreed and account opened she was sold a PPI policy over the phone by MBNA. 
The policy cost 0.68p per £100 of the balance on Miss Hs credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 3% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Miss H was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the call scripts the 
advisor wouldve followed made it clear the policy was optional and that it wouldnt have 
been added without her consent and thought that the policy provided a useful benefit. 
Miss H disagrees, she says she didnt know she had PPI and would never have asked for it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Miss Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
MBNA had to make it clear to Miss H she had a choice in taking the policy and that she 
chose to take it. The policy was sold over the phone after Miss Hs credit card account was 
opened. I dont know exactly what was discussed with Miss H at the time she was sold the 
policy but Ive seen a copy of the call script in use at the time and if followed  and I have no 
reason to believe it wasnt - Miss H wouldve been asked if she wanted PPI applied to her 
account.
Ive also seen a copy of her original credit card application where she was given the option 
to select to take PPI or decline it. I can see Miss H didnt select to take PPI at the time she 
applied for her credit card. 
Because PPI was applied to Miss Hs after the credit card account was opened and she was 
given the option to take PPI on her credit card application, I think she wouldve understood 
she didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And I think PPI was likely applied to her 
account because following a phone call with MBNA she chose to take it. Though I can 
understand given the length of time that has passed why she may not remember this.
If Miss H hadnt agreed to PPI I wouldve expected her to question why PPI was showing on 
her monthly statements and for her to have cancelled the policy.
From what Ive seen of the call script I dont think MBNA advised Miss H to take PPI. What 
this means is that MBNA didnt recommend PPI to Miss H, it just gave her information about 
PPI (it was up to Miss H to assess her circumstances and decide if the product was needed). 
This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if MBNA did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if MBNA 
did give all the information Miss H needed to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss H says she was entitled to some sick pay she could use to 
make her credit card payments if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if she 
lost her job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and for potentially 
longer. So I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put her off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss H and she could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it. 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss H on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means MBNA does not have to pay back the cost of PPI to Miss H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint against MBNA Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman