DRN-3804429
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Lloyds Bank plc has treated him. He has been through a 
period of financial difficulty during which he was unable to pay his mortgage, and says 
Lloyds didnt provide appropriate support or take proper account of his disability.
What happened
Mr W took out his Lloyds mortgage in 2002, and took some additional borrowing over the 
years. The mortgage is on a capital and interest repayment basis. Mr W has long-term and 
severe mental health conditions, and he has been unable to work since 2016. 
By January 2019, Mr W could no longer afford to make his monthly mortgage payments. He 
phoned Lloyds to let it know about his situation. Lloyds arranged to give Mr W some 
breathing space without asking for payments while he sought independent debt advice and 
contacted his other creditors. It says it noted on its records that Mr W was vulnerable. 
There followed regular phone calls  around every month  and reviews of Mr Ws income 
and expenditure. Those reviews said Mr Ws expenditure significantly outweighed his 
income and he couldnt afford to make his mortgage payments. Mr W was applying for 
benefits and looking into early access to his pension. 
Mr W says he found the phone calls and reviews with Lloyds extremely traumatic and 
detrimental to his health. In or about October 2020, he asked Lloyds for an e-mail address 
he could use to communicate with it instead of having to phone.
Lloyds initially wouldnt provide an e-mail address, and said it would only communicate by 
phone or post. In March 2021, it did provide Mr W with an e-mail address he could write to 
and send documents to  but it said it wouldnt be able to reply to him by e-mail for security 
reasons. 
Mr W complained. He said Lloyds hadnt made reasonable adjustments for him as its 
required to do under the Equality Act 2010, and it hadnt offered him any realistic solutions to 
help him with the mortgage. 
Lloyds maintained that it couldnt risk sending e-mails to its customers because it couldnt 
guarantee the security of customers computers. It said if Mr W could authorise someone to 
act on his behalf it could communicate with them instead. It also said it couldnt offer him any 
concessions which would reduce his mortgage payments to a level he could afford.  
Our Investigator thought Lloyds had given Mr W some satisfactory options for 
communication. However, he said it should have given Mr W an e-mail address to write to 
sooner, and he recommended it pay Mr W £250 compensation for the upset this had 
caused. 
The Investigator went on to say that Mr W and Lloyds would need to engage with one 
another in order to find a way for Mr W to get his mortgage back on track and repay the 
arrears. He didnt think it was reasonable to expect Lloyds to set out a list of options from 
which Mr W could choose; Lloyds would need to understand Mr Ws situation in order to help 
him find a solution. 
Lloyds accepted that conclusion, but Mr W did not. A friend responded on his behalf, setting 
out what he considered to be failings by Lloyds on a number of levels.
Our Investigator asked Lloyds for some additional information, and reviewed recordings of 
some of the conversations it had had with Mr W. He concluded that Mr W had been treated 
very poorly during some of these calls, particularly in the light of the severity of his health 
conditions, which Lloyds knew about.  He recommended that compensation be increased to 
£500. 
Lloyds accepted that; it agreed to pay £500 and said it would feed back to the staff involved. 
Mr W didnt accept it. He still wanted an Ombudsmans decision on the complaint, and said 
this dispute is about more than just the phone calls. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as follows:
Im very sorry to read about Mr Ws ill health and his extremely difficult circumstances. Id 
like to assure him that Ive taken into account everything he and his friend have told us about 
his situation in coming to this decision. 
Ill firstly set out my findings about Lloyds response to Mr Ws financial difficulty, and then 
move on to the way Lloyds has communicated with Mr W and how I propose that it should 
settle this complaint. 
Financial difficulty
Mr W tried to engage with Lloyds at an early stage and let it know about both his financial 
situation and his disability. But he says Lloyds didnt offer any realistic solutions, such as 
extending the mortgage term, switching all or part of the mortgage onto an interest-only 
basis, or reducing the interest rate.
Lloyds has a responsibility to try to help customers in financial difficulty, and the suggestions 
Mr W has made are all things a lender should think about. However, solutions must be viable 
and sustainable, and what is most appropriate will depend on the borrowers particular 
circumstances. 
Lloyds review of Mr Ws situation in April 2019 found that his monthly income was £370, and 
his expenditure was £1,378. The monthly mortgage payments came to around £990. Against 
this background, I think its clear that there were no viable options for Mr W to make reduced 
mortgage payments. He simply couldnt have afforded to do so: his income didnt cover his 
expenditure excluding the mortgage, and that remained the case throughout the rest of 
2019. Lloyds records say that it explained to Mr W later in 2019 that it couldnt set up a 
payment arrangement which he wouldnt be able to afford. 
Lloyds initially arranged for no payments to be required to the mortgage for two months while 
Mr W sought independent debt advice and contacted his other creditors. It then held off from 
taking further action in respect of the arrears through 2019 and 2020, and early 2021. Mr W 
was in regular contact with updates about his situation and the benefits applications he was 
making. In these circumstances, I dont think there was anything Lloyds could have done to make the 
mortgage affordable for Mr W. His income wasnt enough to cover his mortgage payments 
and living costs, even if Lloyds had been prepared to accept significantly lower payments for 
a time. A switch to interest-only, term extension, or reduced interest rate wouldnt have 
resulted in affordable or sustainable payments for Mr W. 
In April 2021, Mr W emailed Lloyds saying he could now afford to make the contractual 
monthly mortgage payments. He went on to make those payments and, as I understand it, 
has continued to do so. He has also made some inroads into the arrears, which by 2021 had 
reached around £25,000.
Mr W wants Lloyds to write to him, setting out all the various options open to him to repay 
the mortgage and arrears over the longest term possible. Those options, however, are 
dependent on Mr Ws particular circumstances. I think its reasonable for Lloyds to want to 
understand Mr Ws current situation before looking either at concessions or contractual 
changes. Not to do so would run the risk of disappointing Mr W should he not be eligible for, 
or not be able to afford, a particular arrangement. So Im not going to require Lloyds to send 
him a list of possibilities.
Mr W also wants to know whether he would be eligible for a fixed rate mortgage. Lloyds told 
him in March 2021 that he wasnt eligible, on the basis that he was in financial difficulty and 
a fixed rate wouldnt be affordable.
 
Its reasonable, in principle, for lenders only to offer interest rate products to customers who 
meet certain criteria. And its not uncommon for lenders to require that a mortgage account 
be up-to-date before they will offer an interest rate product. I think its reasonable that Lloyds 
would want to be satisfied that the mortgage would be sustainable moving forwards before 
agreeing to offer a new interest rate product, and to do that it would need to see a history of 
Mr W consistently managing his monthly payments, as well as an arrangement for the 
mortgage arrears to be repaid.
This is important because, while a fixed interest rate would usually result in lower monthly 
payments, it would also come with an early repayment charge if the mortgage needs to be 
brought to an end early  such as in circumstances where the mortgage is no longer 
affordable and the lender repossesses the property. So a fixed interest rate which a 
borrower cant maintain can end up costing more in the end. 
Lloyds said in May 2021 that it had looked at how much Mr Ws monthly mortgage payments 
would have been at that time on its lowest fixed rate and over the maximum possible term. 
They would have come to just over £840 a month. Against the information it had at the time 
about Mr Ws monthly income of £815, this wouldnt have been affordable.
I dont think I can fairly conclude that Lloyds should have agreed a new interest rate product 
while Mr Ws mortgage has been in arrears, because it wasnt clear whether Mr W would 
have been able to maintain the resulting mortgage payments.
Mr W appears now to be on a sounder financial footing and is keen to come to an agreement 
to repay the mortgage arrears. I understand that he has been able to maintain the monthly 
mortgage payments for some time, and so capitalisation of the arrears (that is, adding the 
arrears to the capital mortgage balance) may be something Lloyds can consider in these 
circumstances. Alternatively, it could agree a long-term arrangement to repay the arrears  
in which context I remind Lloyds that the courts have said that clearing the arrears over an 
affordable period which lasts up to the remaining term of the mortgage can be acceptable. 
And in either case, Lloyds could consider offering a new interest rate to reduce the amount of Mr Ws contractual monthly payment  increasing the amount he could put towards 
reducing the arrears if not capitalised. 
In either case, however, this would be subject to an assessment of Mr Ws present financial 
situation  and Lloyds and Mr W will need to communicate with one another in order for an 
assessment to be made and an agreement to be reached. 
Communication
Mr W has severe and long-term mental health problems and, through a friend, has explained 
the adverse impact on him of the regular phone calls he had to have with Lloyds in 2019 and 
2020. He says they were extremely traumatic and detrimental to his health, leading at times 
to breakdowns and even attempts to take his own life. He also says that his other creditors 
didnt insist on as frequent contact with him as Lloyds did.
Lloyds knew in 2019 that Mr W is disabled and vulnerable. Its records reflect that. Mr W had 
explained his situation to it and provided medical evidence. Lloyds has a team which works 
specifically with vulnerable customers, and through which customers can have a single point 
of contact. Yet it didnt refer Mr W to that team until January 2021, despite knowing about his 
situation nearly two years earlier. 
I consider that Lloyds should have made the referral far sooner. Had it done so, I think much 
of the distress Mr W was caused by its handling of his situation and the frequency of contact 
it insisted on could have been avoided.
I think that requiring updates around every month, knowing what Lloyds knew about Mr Ws 
health and overall situation, and the steps he was taking to try to access benefits and his 
pension, was excessive  and adversely impacted Mr Ws health further. In saying that, I 
understand that Mr Ws other debts werent secured on his property  so they wont have 
been priority debts in the same way as a mortgage is, and less frequent contact from his 
other creditors might reasonably have been expected in any event.
Ive listened to recordings of some of Lloyds calls with Mr W which took place before Lloyds 
made the referral to its vulnerable customer team, and I find that staff handled some of the 
calls very poorly  as Lloyds has now accepted. Its clear from the calls that Mr W was 
caused significant distress and upset following some aggressive questioning and 
inappropriate comments. I have kept this in mind in coming to my provisional conclusion 
about compensation, which I will set out more fully later in this decision.
Means of communication
Mr W says he wants to be able to communicate with Lloyds by email, and this would be a 
reasonable adjustment for him given his disability, and as required under the Equality Act 
2010. He initially requested this in or about October 2020.
Lloyds, however, says email isnt a secure means of communication. It has given Mr W an 
email address which he can write to, but it wont reply through email; instead it has sent 
Mr W letters. Lloyds also says that telephone is the best way to interact in order to find a 
suitable way forward for the arrears on Mr Ws mortgage. Thats why it thinks the most 
suitable option for Mr W would be for him to appoint a trusted representative who could 
speak to it on his behalf.
Mr W says he doesnt want to appoint someone to discuss his financial affairs with Lloyds for 
him and nor should he have to. Thats a choice he is entitled to make. He has also explained 
that he lives alone and doesnt have frequent visitors. His disability means he isnt always able to open letters received by post, so they may go unopened for a week or two until a 
friend visits. 
All of this means that the current arrangement  Mr W emails Lloyds; Lloyds sends him a 
letter (which in itself takes time); the letter may go unopened for a couple of weeks  results 
in significant delays. So I can see why Mr W wants a more workable solution.
In making my decision, I must take account of relevant law. That includes the Equality Act 
2010. Its not, however, for the Financial Ombudsman Service to make a decision on 
whether theres been a breach of the Equality Act. Thats a matter for the courts. While Im 
required to take into account relevant law, amongst other things, ultimately I must decide 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Disability (a physical or mental impairment that has a substantial and long-term adverse 
effect on a persons ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities) is a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act. Mr W has such a disability and so, under the Equality 
Act, Lloyds is required to make reasonable adjustments to enable him to use its services  
including in the way it communicates with him.
I must also take into account relevant regulatory guidance and rules in making my decision. 
How financial businesses treat vulnerable customers is something the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, has looked at closely, and it published its Guidance for firms on 
the fair treatment of vulnerable customers in February 2021.
That guidance says firms should: Consider how they communicate with vulnerable 
customers, taking account of their needs. Where possible, firms should offer multiple 
channels so consumers have a choice. The guidance goes on to say that firms should look 
for solutions to fill gaps in the way they provide their services  and gives an example1 of a 
situation where a firm didnt offer email to meet a disabled customers communication needs. 
It describes that firms response to that situation as poor practice. 
Lloyds thinks it has done enough, by providing Mr W with an email address he can write to. 
But I dont consider this a reasonable solution in all the circumstances.
Lloyds says it cant guarantee the security of customers computers, and so it wont send 
customer information by email. Data protection and security are important considerations, 
and Lloyds has obligations under the General Data Protection Regulation. However, I find it 
difficult to accept that theres a fundamental difference in risk to the customer in Lloyds 
accepting emails but not being prepared to send them, as long as the customer is aware that 
theyre responsible for their security of their own device.  
In any case, this is primarily a concern for standard non-secure email. Lloyds could use 
secure email to communicate with Mr W  I think its incredibly unlikely that a firm like Lloyds 
doesnt have access to and cant use secure email.
Besides that, electronic communication isnt limited to email, and I think its disappointing 
that in 2022 Lloyds apparently cant communicate with its mortgage customers electronically. 
There are other methods of electronic communication which dont involve using the phone, 
and which are far quicker and more practical than Lloyds sending letters in the post. Some 
firms, for example, use live webchat. Lloyds has told us that it does offer an online 
messaging facility through online banking  but this is for basic enquiries only. 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg21-1.pdf p.40, section 4.69 Its unclear why Lloyds will only deal with basic enquiries via its messaging facility. It must 
consider this facility secure as customers would need to log into online banking in order to 
use it. What this does show, though, is that Lloyds can communicate with its customers by 
means other than letter or phone. 
Mr W is a vulnerable, disabled customer. He wants to get his mortgage back on track. He 
isnt trying to avoid his liability, and having no plan in place for the mortgage is causing him 
anxiety and distress. He has explained the extent to which communicating by phone puts 
him at risk of harm, and the practical barriers to communicating by post. I consider that 
Lloyds could and should go further in seeking a better, faster, and more practical way of 
engaging with Mr W, and that it should communicate with him electronically by one of the 
various means available. I invite its proposals in response to this provisional decision. But 
Lloyds should note that unless there is good reason not to, I intend to direct it to use such 
means to communicate in my final decision  and I am unlikely to consider Lloyds general 
communication policies a good reason not to make an adjustment in this case.
Mr W says that, ideally, he never wants to communicate with Lloyds again. But Im afraid 
thats not realistic nor something I can reasonably require. The only way for that to happen 
would be for the mortgage to be repaid. Re-mortgaging elsewhere may be something Mr W 
may wish to consider but, in the short term, Mr W and Lloyds will have to work together in 
order to try to come to an arrangement for repayment of the mortgage arrears. Contact 
between them may not, however, need to be particularly frequent if the matter of the arrears 
can be resolved. 
In summary, I find that Lloyds has dealt poorly with Mr W for the reasons Ive set out above, 
and this has had a substantial adverse impact on him. In all the circumstances, I think Lloyds 
should pay Mr W more compensation than recommended by our Investigator, and I intend to 
increase the award to £1,200. In reaching my conclusion about the level of award, I have 
also kept in mind that the awards I make arent intended to be punitive or a fine on financial 
businesses. 
To settle this complaint, I proposed to require Lloyds to:
- communicate with Mr W electronically about his mortgage arrangements and arrears. I 
invited it to provide its proposals for doing so in response to my provisional decision, and
- pay Mr W (directly, not by way of credit to the mortgage, unless Mr W requests it be paid 
to the mortgage) £1,200.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds said it accepted the resolution I had proposed. It said digital and/or email 
communication isnt something it offers as standard, but it will offer email contact when 
needed. It accepted it had got things wrong in Mr Ws case and said its committed to 
ensuring communication between it and Mr W about his mortgage arrears is in electronic 
format going forward. 
Lloyds went on to say that it would review capitalising the mortgage arrears, an interest rate 
product, and a term extension with Mr W  but it may need to speak to him as part of this 
process, although it would make sure first that hes comfortable with this. It said it would, 
however, limit the amount of telephone contact only to that which is absolutely necessary in 
order to support [Mr W] in the long term management of his account. Certain documents, 
such as annual mortgage statements, would continue to be sent by post.Lloyds also said it recognises that Mr W is vulnerable and since January 2019 it had tried to 
support him and hadnt applied its usual collections strategy. It provided some records of its 
contact with Mr W to reflect that.
Mr W didnt say whether or not he accepted my provisional decision. He provided a copy of a 
letter he had recently received from Lloyds, asking him to call it about his mortgage arrears, 
and said this had caused further detriment to his mental health.
Mr W also said interest rates have changed significantly since he made this complaint. He 
wanted to know whether a fixed rate, if Lloyds would offer him one, would be based on 
previous or current rates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions I set out in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons.
Im pleased to read that Lloyds accepts it is able to communicate with Mr W by email. 
However, there is clearly more to be done to put this into practice. 
The records Lloyds has provided with its response to my provisional decision include a note 
dated 22 October 2022. This note says Lloyds vulnerable customer team had reviewed 
Mr Ws account, and letter issued as team have no facility to email inviting customer to call 
to discuss capitalisation of arrears as per FOS recommendation.
This letter appears to be the one Mr W has provided a copy of, which he has explained has 
affected his health and taken him back to how he felt when he first made this complaint.
I find it extraordinary that Lloyds vulnerable customer team thought, following receipt of my 
provisional decision, that asking Mr W to phone it was acceptable. It was entirely 
inappropriate. I also dont accept that there is a need for Lloyds to speak to Mr W to discuss 
his mortgage arrangements in the circumstances.
I expect Lloyds to communicate with Mr W in an appropriate way in future  otherwise he 
may make a fresh complaint and/or, if he accepts this final decision, he may initiate 
enforcement action on the basis that Lloyds hasnt complied with a binding Ombudsmans 
decision.
Finally, I note what Mr W has said about changing interest rates. Fixed rates available on the 
market now are generally considerably higher than they were a year ago, for example. 
However, whether a fixed rate is the right thing for Mr W is subject to an assessment of his 
financial situation and, as I said in my provisional decision, it would need to be both 
affordable and sustainable. Thats a matter for Mr W and Lloyds to discuss, and I dont find 
that I can reasonably require Lloyds to offer Mr W a rate which was previously available in 
settlement of the complaint at hand here  although this is not to say that Lloyds shouldnt do 
so following its assessment of Mr Ws finances and circumstances. If Mr W feels that Lloyds 
isnt treating him fairly during this process, he may be able to make a fresh complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank plc must:- communicate with Mr W electronically about his mortgage arrangements and arrears, 
and
- pay Mr W (directly, not by way of credit to the mortgage, unless Mr W requests it be paid 
to the mortgage) £1,200.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank plc to take the steps set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman