DRN-1800356
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened 
Between May 2016 and December 2018 Lending Stream provided Mr H with sixty four 
loans. When they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid over six 
months or so. Mr H took out loans that ranged between £50 and £700. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first ten loans:
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Term
(Months) 
Amount
BorrowedHighest* 
Combined 
Repayment
1 30/05/2016 24/07/2016 6 £50.00 £23.16
2 09/07/2016 15/09/2016 6 £200.00 £114.30
3 29/07/2016 15/09/2016 6 £70.00 £129.80
408/10/2016 15/10/2016 6 £200.00 £88.00
510/10/2016 15/10/2016 6 £100.00 £132.00*
613/11/2016 18/01/2017 6 £50.00 £22.00
720/11/2016 18/01/2017 6 £60.00 £45.68
821/11/2016 18/01/2017 6 £50.00 £66.88
926/11/2016 18/01/2017 6 £60.00 £92.32
10 11/12/2016 18/01/2017 6 £100.00 £137.92
*this shows (approximately) the combined monthly repayment where loans overlapMr H feels that if Lending Stream had done proper checks then he would never have been 
given these unaffordable loans. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1-8 shouldnt have been lent  but he felt that by loan 9 Lending Stream shouldve 
seen that Mr H was likely having money problems. And by loan 10 his overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. So our 
adjudicator said Lending Stream shouldnt have lent to him from loan 9 onwards and he 
gave detailed directions setting out what he thought Lending Stream should do to put things 
right for Mr H. 
Lending Stream hasnt responded to our adjudicators view letter or to a reminder chasing up 
a response. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr H. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Lending Stream what he normally spent each month. 
And Lending Stream also carried out creditworthiness checks on Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold the first 
eight loans. And I agree with what our adjudicator says about these loans. So I dont think 
that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 9. At 
this point, I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Hs 
borrowing history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 9, Mr H already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Lending Stream (loans 6, 7 and 8). Hed taken out all these loans in the 
same month and in quick succession  and now he was asking for further borrowing. This 
suggests to me that Mr H was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and his 
financial difficulties were likely ongoing.  
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Lending Stream shouldve 
realised that Mr Hs borrowing record painted a picture of a person struggling with debt. And 
despite what hed told Lending Stream about his finances, it showed that Mr H was having 
serious problems managing his money. So Lending Stream shouldve seen that the 
indications were that loan 9  and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr H. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr H to see if 
there was a point at which Lending Stream reasonably shouldve seen that further lending 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. 
I think by loan 10 Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. I say this because:
Mr H wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr H had been paying Lending 
Stream loans more or less without a break for about 6 months in a row since hed 
started borrowing from Lending Stream and he was now taking out his tenth loan  
due to keep him indebted to Lending Stream for a further 6 months 
 
hed regularly borrowed more money before he had finished paying for earlier 
borrowing 
 I appreciate that he repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term. But successfully 
repaying his loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way. And 
borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Hs 
finances were not in a stable position 
 
Lending Stream didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr H 
before hed paid all his earlier loans. But Lending Stream shouldve seen that he 
wasnt making any real inroads into his debt. Loan 10 was for twice the amount hed 
borrowed when he took out loan 1- and taking into account his other outstanding 
borrowing (loans 6,7,8 and 9) this was the biggest amount overall and the most loans 
hed so far had outstanding. So Lending Stream could see his indebtedness was 
increasing 
 
by now, Lending Stream ought to have known that Mr H probably wasnt borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in income but to meet an ongoing (and growing) need for 
extra cash. And it shouldve realised that there were clear signs that Mr H was having 
problems managing his money and he wasnt using the loans for their intended 
purpose.  
 
I think that Mr H lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from 
loan 10 onwards when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Hs ability to access 
mainstream credit and kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So overall, Im upholding the complaint from loan 9 onwards and Lending Stream should put 
things right.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
The latest information I have is that not all the loans have been paid, so I've set out what 
Lending Stream needs to do with this in mind. 
If Lending Stream has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending 
Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step 
"E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr H.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file for loan 9. The overall pattern of 
borrowing by loan 10 means any information recorded about loan 10 and all the 
loans that followed is adverse. So all entries about loans 10-64 should be removed 
from Mr Hs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint. Gain Credit LLC (trading 
as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman