DRN-3982890
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt act on a Trust Deed arrangement he 
entered, and it continued to chase him for money owed.  
What happened
In August 2022 Mr M entered a Trust Deed managed by a trustee. 
Mr M complained to Capital One, as it continued to send Mr M letters asking for payment 
after the Trust Deed had been agreed and put in place.
Capital One investigated the complaint and sent Mr M a Final Response Letter (FRL) in 
November 2022. In the FRL it said it hadnt received confirmation of the Trust Deed and 
hadnt been able to update its records. It went on to say on that basis it hadnt done anything 
wrong by sending Mr M payment letters. 
Mr M remined unhappy, so he brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator said that there 
was no evidence to show that Capital One had received the Trust Deed document and the 
correspondence mayve been sent to the Insolvency Exchange and not Capital One directly.
Mr M responded to the view and provided evidence that the Trust Deed document had been 
uploaded to a third-party company in September 2022 who shouldve uploaded the 
information to a central database. This would in turn allow Capital One to see the document 
and update the account Mr M holds with Capital One.
Our investigator sent this information to Capital One and it responded with evidence to show 
that the third party had only uploaded the information on 10 January 2023. Capital One said 
it wouldnt have had sight of the information before this date.   
Our investigator considered the new information but didnt change her outcome. She said 
that the delay was with the third-party company and Capital One shouldnt be held 
responsible for it.
Mr M still considered the delay to be the fault of Capital One. So, the complaints been 
passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I want to clarify that I've considered Mr Ms detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Having reviewed the information sent to our service by Mr M, the company that arranged the 
Trust Deed and Capital One, Im satisfied the delay appears to be with the third party 
managing the online portal and document upload and not with Capital One. 
Mr M has mentioned several times that the document was posted and Capital One didnt act 
on it in November 2022. Ive considered this point carefully, but the practitioner in charge of 
distributing the Trust Deed document between creditors has confirmed that it wasnt posted 
but instead sent to a third-party company to upload to its online portal. Once this was done, it 
gave Capital One and other creditors access to the document.
Our investigator asked Capital One for evidence of when it had access to the document 
online and it sent screen shots to show the date as 10 January 2023. This information was 
also sent on to Mr M. Ive considered this information and Im persuaded this wouldve been 
the earliest Capital One were aware of the Trust Deed. 
Mr M has mentioned an issue with a delay with another creditor and that they paid him 
compensation. My role is to look at the complaint Mr M raised against Capital One. Our 
service also looks at complaints based on its individual merits, so Im unable to comment on 
what another creditor may have done. 
In summary, I havent found Capital One acted wrongly or unfairly when it continued to 
correspond with Mr M. The delay in making Capital One aware of the Trust Deed appears to 
be with another organisation and on that basis, I wont be asking Capital One to pay Mr M 
any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman