DRN-3673866
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Prepaid Financial Services Limited 
(PFS) has restricted its e-money account  meaning it cant access its funds.
Bs director, Mr P, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
B says that it has been unable to access the balance held in its e-money account with PFS 
since March 2020, when the account was blocked.
When responding to Bs complaint about the matter, PFS said that it had temporarily blocked 
the account for verification purposes in line with the applicable terms and conditions. It said 
it needed an updated certificate of the companys incorporation and a photo of Bs director 
with an identity document.
With the matter unresolved, one of our investigators looked into things. While noting that he 
had limited information from PFS on which to form an opinion, he thought that the block had 
been applied to Bs account legitimately. However, he thought PFS ought to have done more 
to help B resolve the matter and that its failure to do so had unfairly deprived the company of 
access to its funds and caused it inconvenience. So he recommended that PFS pay B 
compensation of £1,000 along with 8% simple interest on the account balance from the date 
of the block  and that it provide the company with a dedicated point of contact to move 
matters forward.
B accepted our investigators view. PFS asked for more time to investigate the matter, but 
then failed to respond to our follow-up enquiries. So with the matter still unresolved, Bs 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision on Bs complaint earlier this month  setting out why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint and inviting both parties to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into 
account before I made a final decision. I said:
Both parties have provided only limited information in response to our enquiries. From 
what Ive seen so far, I dont think there are sufficient grounds for me to uphold this 
complaint and require PFS to do anything differently. I say this because:
PFS has explained that it restricted Bs access to its account as it needed to 
complete certain checks on the company. The terms and conditions of Bs 
account gave PFS the power to take such action. And I think the information that 
PFS requested from B was reasonable, in light of changes to the companys 
ownership and the various legal and regulatory obligations on PFS in providing 
banking services. 
PFSs request for two pieces of information from B was clear and reiterated on 
more than one occasion. Ive not seen that B has provided this information. Bs 
previous director said that he did, but the company hasnt provided any evidence 
of this despite our requests. It follows that PFS has been unable to complete its 
checks and so the block on Bs account has remained in place.
PFS hasnt been as co-operative with us during our review of this complaint as Id 
expect. But I dont think that has really prejudiced Bs position, as ultimately the 
company has always needed to provide PFS with certain information in order to 
resolve matters and it couldve done so at any time (but hasnt). B has also failed 
to respond to a number of our enquiries  including to simply provide us with the 
relevant information so that we may have been able to relay it to PFS  and so 
bears some responsibility for the lack of progress in resolving the matter.
Neither B nor PFS responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided me with anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. This final decision, 
therefore, simply confirms my provisional findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman