DRN-2488375
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as Kia Finance.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Kia Finance, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Kia Finance, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was 
brand-new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect anything to be wrong with it.
The relevant legislation allows the consumer 30 days to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory 
quality. Mr S took receipt of the car on 13 January 2020 and says he complained about the 
tailgate not shutting on 17 January, only four days later. So, he was within the 30-day period. 
He didnt complain to Kia Finance until 7 February 2020 but even on this timescale he was 
within the 30-day period.
Im persuaded the car was not of satisfactory quality as I think there is evidence that the 
tailgate is not closing in the manner a reasonable person would expect. The independent 
inspector said:
we did find that when we lowered the tailgate down to just over halfway down and released 
the tailgate from this position it should have fully closed on its own, but it just settled down on 
the first catch. It would not go onto the second catch by just putting pressure on the tailgate 
and it had to be opened and then closed with reasonable exertion on the tailgate door panel. 
This, in our opinion, will lead to issues as the number plate on the tailgate does tend to 
vibrate when the tailgate is closed heavily, and this could lead to damage on the paintwork.
He went on to say:
we would have to suggest that the vehicle is air tight and the air is not being released from 
the vehicle when the tailgate door is closed, and we would have to suggest that there may 
be an issue with the vents on the rear panel or rear quarter panels. On the rear of any 
vehicle there are air vents to release air pressure and on the air vents there are flaps on the 
outside to prevent any fumes and debris coming in. It is perhaps a problem here that the air 
vents in the rear of the vehicle are not clear and do not let the air pressure release when the 
tailgate door is closed.
So, I think the inspector did find evidence that the boot wasnt closing in a reasonable 
manner and provided an explanation for what had probably gone wrong. 
In those circumstances I think the business should have allowed Mr S to reject the vehicle as 
it was his short term right to do so where the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Kia Finance should end the agreement and collect the car.
They should refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mr S will have 
been deprived of that money
Kia Finance should also return all the finance instalments Mr S has paid. But its only fair for 
Mr S to pay for the use hes had from the vehicle and I agree with the investigators 
suggestion that Kia Finance therefore charge Mr S on a pence per mile basis for any miles 
completed when the car is returned to them. That charge is listed on the finance agreement 
as 7.5p per mile.
Mr S has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to make himself available 
for an independent inspection; complain to the dealership; cope with frequent audible 
warnings telling him the tailgate was open and escalate his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think Kia Finance should 
pay him £150 compensation in respect of the distress, inconvenience and loss of enjoyment 
he would have experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Hyundai Capital UK Limited 
to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund all the finance instalments Mr S has paid;the business may deduct from any refund a charge for fair usage. This should be 
calculated at a rate of 7.5p per mile travelled;
pay Mr S £150 in respect of the distress, inconvenience and loss of enjoyment hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman