DRN-2694770
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK Bank wont refund transactions, which he said 
he didnt make
 What happened
Mr D is disputing a payment made to a bar on 7th October 2019.  The payment was made at 
00:35 for just under £600.
Mr D and his friends had travelled abroad for a stag party.  They had been at another event 
during the day and were visiting a bar in the evening for drinks.  The next morning, Mr D said 
he tried to use his card and realised it had been blocked.  He had then received a call from 
Barclays about some blocked transactions from the early hours and this is when he found 
out about the disputed one.
Three other cards from another bank had also been used during the early hours and the 
following morning, all of these had been blocked as well.  These form the basis of separate 
complaints with this service. 
Barclays told Mr D that following the successful transaction, a number of other transactions 
attempted on his account had been blocked as its fraud system had detected unusual 
behaviour.  It wanted Mr D to complete a fraud declaration before it could look into his 
complaint further.
Mr D didnt complete this form until he had brought his complaint to this service.  But when 
he did, Barclays said it was holding him liable for the transaction.  It said Mr Ds genuine 
card and PIN had been used to make the payment.  There had been no evidence of 
compromise and Mr D had confirmed he had not shared or disclosed his PIN and card to 
anyone else.  The next morning, he had woken to find the card still in his possession.
Barclays also closed Mr Ds account.  It said it did this for commercial reasons and in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account.
When our investigator considered his complaint, Mr D said he thought his card had been 
cloned at an ATM he had used earlier in the day.  He maintained he had not made the 
transaction.  
But our investigator didnt think she could ask Barclays to do anymore  so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have also considered Mr Ds complaints across all his accounts as they have helped to put 
these transactions into context.  I know Mr D agrees this was the best approach.
Having done so, Im afraid its not good news for Mr D as I have arrived at the same decision 
as the investigator.
In short, Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). So, when Mr D says he didnt make this transaction, my primary concern is to come 
to a view about whether I think he authorised it or not.
Authorisation is a two-stage test.  It consists of authentication and consent  and I remind 
myself that it is for Barclays to show Mr D authorised the payment, not for Mr D to show that 
he did not.
Having reviewed the banks reports, Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated.  
That is, Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used. Im afraid I cant accept Mr Ds 
submission that his card was cloned.  This service has never seen the successful 
cloning of a chip inside bank cards  so on balance, I dont think thats likely to have 
happened here.
However, the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Barclays to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr F consented to the payments being 
made.
Mr D told us he arrived at the bar around midnight and left at approximately 1am. He thinks 
he used a card to buy some drinks.
But I dont think Mr Ds recollection can be right because looking at the transactions and 
attempted transactions across all the accounts he has raised a dispute about, I can see that 
his cards and PIN and were being used well past 2am and potentially until 3am.  
This leads me to conclude that Mr D may not remember the events of that day clearly, and 
so his evidence may not carry the weight it ordinarily would.  In addition, I cant see any 
evidence of Mr Ds genuine transaction in the bar.  It certainly does not appear to have been 
made on any of the cards which this service has been looking in to.
There were also no balance enquiries carried out which suggests that the person using the 
card knew there was enough money. And despite the subsequent transactions being 
blocked, attempts were made to use the card for another six transactions.  On balance, I 
dont think these are the actions of a fraudster.  Continuous use on a blocked card is likely to 
draw attention which a fraudster would want to avoid.
Ive also noted that when transactions were declined on Mr Ds Barclays card, other cards 
from other accounts were then used for the same amounts.  Again, not the actions of a 
fraudster but someone who knows that they have an alternative way to make these 
payments.
I note Barclays has submitted that there has been no clear compromise of Mr Ds PIN.  I 
have taken this into account  although I have attached very little weight to it in considering 
the element of consent.However, for these reasons Ive given above, I think Mr D authorised the disputed payment.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays did enough here to protect Mr Ds account  and I 
think that it did.  I dont think the successful transaction was so out of character on Mr Ds 
account that Barclays ought to have been alerted to it.  But I am pleased to see that the 
subsequent payments triggered its fraud detection systems and were blocked.
So, in the circumstances, I think Mr D authorised the payment.  He may have paid more than 
he thought he was and probably regrets it now  but he must take responsibility for his 
actions.  What that means is that I dont think Barclays has been unfair or unreasonable in 
refusing to refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman