DRN-2828309
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
 unreasonably refused to pay her claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Miss D had several complaints with Red Sands, but this decision only concerns her 
complaint about Red Sands refusal to cover the cost of a medication and vet treatment for 
her dogs anal furunculosis in the sum of £791.59.
Red Sands said as Miss Ds policy has an exclusion for allergies and anal furunculosis is 
linked to allergies it wasnt possible for it to pay Miss Ds claim. Miss D said no vet had ever 
tested her dog for allergies, so she didnt agree.
The investigator didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong. Miss D didnt agree so 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Its clear from the vet history of Miss Ds dog that her vet links the anal furunculosis to her 
dogs allergies because it says this on the entry for 17 March 2020. That vet note also 
confirms her dog has a long history of allergies. Red Sands is entitled to rely on whats 
written in the vet histories. If Miss D has issues with what is written in her dogs vet notes, 
then thats a matter between her and her vet and it doesnt concern Red Sands at all.
Since its been established in Miss D other complaints against Red Sands that the policy 
excludes claims in relation to allergies, then I dont consider Red Sands did anything wrong 
in deciding here that it couldnt pay her claim because it was for an excluded condition.
Red Sands is entitled to decide what conditions it wants to cover and what it doesnt and 
there is no duty on it to pay for any claim for a condition that existed before the policy was 
taken out either. It is clear Red Sands policy documentation sent to Miss D each year 
explained all this to Miss D and if Miss D was unhappy with this, she could have searched 
out other insurers to see if her level of cover would be any better.
My role and the role of this service to see if Red Sands did anything wrong bearing in mind 
the terms and conditions of Miss Ds policy and here, I consider it didnt.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman