DRN-3419259
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In mid-2016, Mr I applied for a credit card with M&S. He gave them one address, saying hed 
lived there since the start of 2011. But when M&S did their credit checks, they found that Mr I 
had a number of accounts in default or arrears registered to a different address of his 
between 2011 and 2015.
M&S called Mr I to check things with him. Mr I confirmed hed made the credit card 
application, and he repeated that hed lived at the address hed given for over 5 years. M&S 
checked if he was sure he hadnt lived anywhere else or had any accounts at other 
addresses, but Mr I said only at the address he'd given. M&S double-checked, and Mr I 
confirmed his answer again.
As a result, M&S registered a CIFAS marker against Mr I for withholding an address on his 
application which had adverse credit data.
In 2020, Mr I discovered the marker after he applied for a loan and got declined. He 
complained, but M&S felt theyd added the marker correctly.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint, based on a lack 
of evidence from M&S. M&S didnt agree, and have since provided evidence to back up the 
marker. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr I and M&S a provisional decision on 8 March 2022, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, M&S were not required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt 
that Mr I had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to believe 
that hed withheld an address with adverse data against it, with appropriate evidence to 
support this. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, 
I currently think M&S did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the raw data from Mr Is application, and can see that he did indeed only 
provide M&S with one address, saying hed lived there for 5 and a half years at the time.
From the record of M&Ss checks, I can see they found that Mr I had a number of 
outstanding accounts that had defaulted or fallen into arrears at another address of his, 
spanning 2011 through to 2015. These accounts were registered in his name and date of 
birth, and the address in question was a genuine address of Mr Is  it was even in some of 
the correspondence he sent us himself.
Ive listened to M&Ss call with Mr I from back in 2016. They asked him clearly if he was sure 
he didnt have any accounts at an address other than the one hed provided, and they even 
double-checked his answer. But both times, Mr I confirmed the information hed given 
previously and did not tell M&S about the address with all the adverse data on it.
I appreciate that Mr I has sent some information to indicate that he received correspondence 
at the address he gave. But from what Ive seen, it looks like in 2016 Mr I had very little data 
registered at the address he gave to M&S. Whereas he had quite a few accounts registered 
to the address hed withheld. And that data was registered over quite a long and very recent 
period  2011 to 2015. So Mr I would have reasonably known that his accounts were 
registered to that other address, and not to the one he gave M&S. I do not find it very 
plausible that this was simply a mistake or oversight, not least given that M&S specifically 
double-checked his answers in the phone call that followed.
Further, I note that later in 2016, Mr I applied to a different lender, and they also found out 
that hed withheld the same address with them too. They added a CIFAS marker of their 
own. I do acknowledge that, some years later, that lender removed their marker. But they 
explained they only did that as a goodwill gesture  they were content that [they] have acted 
entirely correctly in adding the marker.
So taking everything into account, I currently think that the evidence supports M&Ss 
decision to register this marker. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr I to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, I dont think I can fairly reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 April 2022. But neither Mr I nor M&S sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Adam CharlesOmbudsman