DRN-2277501
The complaint
Mrs H complains about charges and interest John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) 
added to her account. She would like these refunded
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Mrs Hs usual payment to pay off her outstanding credit card balance in full in 
November 2016 failed to go through as she used an old credit card number as a 
reference. JLFS advised customers via its messages on credit card statements that 
if consumers did this payments wouldnt go through. So, I think the mistake was Mrs 
Hs not JLFSs
JLFS refunded the interest payment of £28.94 that accrued as  a result  but not the 
late payment fee of £12 . I think this  was reasonable as the mistake wasnt its fault. 
And I have no evidence to show that JLFS agreed to repay the £12 fee.
I also have no evidence to support Mrs Hs view that JLFS confirmed it was its 
mistake the payment didnt go through. I dont accept that refunding the interest 
initially charged and other subsequent refunds demonstrate this.  Businesses  make 
refunds for a variety of reasons not just when mistakes have occurred. 
If I have understood Mrs H correctly, she  seems to feel that JLFS didnt refund the 
correct amount at the right time and as a result she has been disadvantaged. So, she  
decided  to only  pay for transactions  she incurred each month. Ive seen that the 
refund of interest incurred in November 2016 was refunded the same month. But 
even  if Mrs H believed a mistake had been made, she must have realised that, in not 
paying the full balance each month, interest and charges would be incurred.  I dont 
think its reasonable for her to have assumed these would all be refunded. 
JLFS has refunded in total over £400 of the interest it has charged  . I dont feel its 
reasonable to expect it to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman