DRN-2874360
The complaint
Mr R acquired a used car in late May 2019, by hire purchase over 60 months with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited. He complains that his car was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. He wants Oodle to agree: to accept rejection of his car; to unwind his hire 
purchase agreement; and to remove any information it may have recorded on his credit file, 
relating to this agreement.
What happened
Based on information from Oodle:
Mr R complained to Oodle in mid-September 2019 that, a few weeks after he 
acquired the car, its engine management system alerted him to a fault  he had tried 
to resolve this problem with the supplying dealership, but had been unable to do so
Oodle commissioned an independent inspection of his car by a suitably qualified 
organisation, which took place in early October 2019
The inspector identified a fault with Mr Rs car, but concluded that (on the balance of 
probabilities) this fault would not have been present at the point of supply  so the 
fault was not Oodles responsibility
Oodle responded to Mr R a few days later, saying that it did not uphold his complaint
Mr R referred his complaint to us in mid-October 2019. Our investigator thought that Oodle 
had reached the correct conclusion. Mr R did not ask for his complaint to be referred for 
review by an ombudsman.   
Based on further information from Oodle:
Mr R contacted Oodle again in November 2020, complaining that his car had a fault, 
which the supplying dealership would not repair as a goodwill gesture
Oodle told Mr R  
oit would only have responsibility in these circumstances, if the fault had been 
present or developing when he acquired his car
obecause of the length of time since he acquired his car, the onus was on him 
to show that his complaint related to a point of supply fault
oin order to do so, he should commission an independent inspection of his car 
by a suitably qualified organisation
Mr R commissioned the (second) independent inspection, which took place in 
November 2020, the report of which he passed to Oodle in early January 2021
Several faults were found to be present when Mr Rs car was inspected, but the 
inspector concluded that (on balance) his car would not have been affected by them 
at the point of supply 
Oodle did not uphold Mr Rs (second) complaint, because the inspection reports had 
not provided the necessary evidence that his car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
point of supply
Mr R also told Oodle in late November 2020 that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, and requested a payment holiday  he was asked to provide various 
pieces of information to confirm his financial situation
There was a delay in Oodle receiving the information sought, which led to Mr R being 
asked in January 2021 for some additional information
In February 2021, Mr R complained about the lack of response by Oodle to his 
payment holiday request  it logged this as a separate formal complaint
Also, in February 2021, Mr Rs car failed a MOT test.  An inspection report was undertaken 
by one of his cars manufacturers main dealers, which indicated that his car had several 
faults.
  
Mr R contacted Oodle once more in early March 2021, complaining about these faults  he 
provided to it the main dealers report confirming them. Oodle responded to Mr R in mid-
March 2021, saying that the report did not express a view on whether these were point of 
supply faults, and so it was unable to uphold his complaint.
Mr R then referred to us his March 2021 complaint against Oodle. He provided evidence to 
us, including information about the steps he had taken in 2019 to have his car repaired by 
the supplying dealership, and about matters relating to his cars warranty. He also provided 
to us a copy of Oodles response to this complaint.
Oodle responded in April 2021 to Mr Rs separate complaint about the handling of his 
payment holiday request. It upheld his complaint and made a compensation award.
Our investigator did not think that Mr Rs March 2021 complaint should be upheld. She 
agreed that his car was faulty, and that it had been so when he first complained to Oodle in 
September 2019. But she noted that none of the inspection reports on his car indicated 
these were point of supply faults.  She felt that something going wrong with Mr Rs car 
subsequently, did not necessarily mean that it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.    
Mr R disagreed with our investigator. He said his evidence relating to July 2019  including 
information about actions he undertook to initiate a warranty claim  showed that there was 
a fault with his car when he acquired it six weeks earlier. 
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Oodle has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances, which for 
cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits to Oodles responsibilities. In 
particular, faults must be present or developing at the point of supply.
I sympathise with Mr R. He feels that any fault in a car arising within a few weeks of taking 
delivery must have been present or developing when it was acquired  and that such a fault 
must make the quality of his car unsatisfactory at the point of supply. But Mr Rs car was 38 months old, and had travelled just over 68,000 miles, when he 
acquired it. All used cars suffer from normal wear and tear. And cars with significantly higher 
than average mileages for their age suffer more than those with lower mileages.
Mr Rs complaint is against Oodle, and not the supplying dealership.  As noted above, 
Oodles responsibilities relate only to the car being of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. They do not extend to subsequent faults or normal wear and tear. 
I have seen no evidence confirming the mileage travelled by Mr Rs car, during the early 
weeks after acquisition in late May 2019. But it had travelled a little over 7,500 further miles 
when it was independently inspected in early October 2019. This was significantly more than 
average monthly mileage, which again increased the opportunity for normal wear and tear.  
The October 2019 inspector identified a fault in Mr Rs car  but, on the balance of 
probabilities, he did not believe it was a point of supply fault. This was his professional view, 
and I am unable to find a reason to disagree with him.  
The likelihood of identifying new point of supply faults intrinsically decreases over time, 
which makes it unsurprising that neither of the subsequent inspections of Mr Rs car (in 
November 2020 and February 2021) have identified such faults. And so, once more on 
balance, I find that Mr Rs car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  
This means that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman