DRN-4451098
Complaint
Mr M has complained about loans Commsave Credit Union Limited (trading as CCUL) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and therefore irresponsibly provided to 
him.
Background
CCUL has provided Mr M with a total of five loans since 2018. Mr M may have been 
provided with other loans before this but despite having been given the opportunity to do so, 
hes not complained about these loans. So all reference to loans (and the corresponding 
numbers) in this decision are made with reference to agreements entered into from 2018 
onwards.
In February 2019, CCUL provided Mr M with a first loan (in the period being looked at) for 
£500. This was an extension to Mr Ms existing revolving credit facility and the loan had an 
APR of 19.6%. The expectation was that if the funds were immediately drawn down in full 
the balance would be repaid in weekly instalments of £40.
CCUL then provided Mr M with a second loan for £650 in May 2019. This loan had an APR 
of 26.8% and a term of 61 weeks. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £824.55, 
including interest, fees and charges of £174.55, was due to be repaid in 61 weekly 
instalments of £41.87.
In January 2020, CCUL provided Mr M with a third loan for £5,000.00. This loan had an APR 
of 27.1% and a term of 156 weeks. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£7,015.76, including interest, fees and charges of £2,015.76, was due to be repaid in 156 
weekly instalments of £45.04. 
Mr M was provided with a fourth loan for £14,265.92 in September 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 13.9% and a term of 362 weeks. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£21,659.33, including interest, fees and charges of £7,393.41, was due to be repaid in 362 
weekly instalments of £59.95. 
Mr M was provided with a fifth and final loan for £500 in October 2022. This loan had an 
APR of 27.0% and a term of 52 weeks. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£563.29, including interest, fees and charges of £63.29, was due to be repaid in 52 weekly 
instalments of £10.84. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and he eventually concluded that CCUL 
didnt do anything wrong when providing Mr M with loans 1 and 2 but that it ought to have 
seen that it shouldnt have approved the application for loans 3, 4 and 5. 
Mr M accepted the investigators assessment. CCUL accepted the assessment in relation to 
loans 1, 2, 3 and 5 but disagreed with the findings in relation to loan 4. And it asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint about this loan.
As the parties are in agreement with the outcome reached in relation to loans 1, 2, 3 and 5, 
this decision is only considering whether CCUL acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M 
when providing loan 4.
My provisional decision of 23 October 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 23 October 2023 - setting out why I was minded to 
conclude that what CCUL had already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I 
will instead provide a summary of my findings. 
I started by setting out that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ms complaint. 
I then went on to explain that CCUL needed to ensure that it acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr M. As part of this, it needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt 
provide unaffordable credit. In practice, what this meant was that CCUL needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could afford to make his 
repayments to loan 4 before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
CCUL said that it approved Mr Ms application for loan 4 after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It said it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out as well as payslips and copies of bank 
statements that it obtained from Mr M. In CCULs view all of the information it gathered 
showed that Mr M could comfortably afford to make the weekly repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr M said he couldnt afford this loan.
I carefully thought about what Mr M and CCUL have said. 
It was clear to me that CCUL did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it 
decided to proceed with Mr Ms application. And this information did appear to suggest that 
the loan repayments were affordable for Mr M. Indeed our investigator appears to have 
accepted this but she in any event thought that as CCUL had agreed that it didnt act fairly 
and reasonably when it provided loan 3, it followed that she had to reach the same 
conclusion on loan 4. 
However, I didnt agree with this analysis or conclusion. I explained that this was because it 
was clear that CCUL had obtained a significant amount of information before it provided loan 
4, which it didnt do when providing loans 3 and 5. And given the amount of information that 
CCUL obtained from Mr M before it provided loan 4, I didnt think it is reasonable to conclude 
that the checks it carried out before providing this loan werent fair and reasonable.  Furthermore, the information from the time suggested that Mr M was going to use some of 
the funds from this loan to settle other debts. I could see Mr M provided CCUL with an 
undertaking that he would settle outstanding balances on number of accounts. 
I didnt know whether Mr M did use the funds in the way that hed undertaken to. But CCUL 
could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
Mr M had committed to consolidating and CCUL was reasonably entitled to believe that         
Mr M would follow through with this commitment. 
I also thought that it was worth noting that the monthly payments appeared to have been 
affordable (based on the income and expenditure information and what was on Mr Ms bank 
statements)  whether or not Mr Ms existing balances were cleared. So I didnt think that 
CCUL had to contact Mr Ms existing creditors and clear the balances on Mr Ms accounts. 
Furthermore, as this was a first consolidation loan CCUL was providing to Mr M (Mr M had 
previous loans but loan 1 was a revolving credit facility, loan 2 was for a holiday and loan 3 
was for home improvements), at this stage at least, there wasnt a history of Mr M taking out 
consolidation loans and then returning for further loans having failed to consolidate debts 
elsewhere in the way he committed to. So given the particular circumstances here, I was 
satisfied that CCUL was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr M would be left in a better 
position after being provided with this loan.
I accepted that Mr Ms full circumstances may not have been reflected in the information 
CCUL gathered or in the information hed since provided. But it was only fair and reasonable 
for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I didnt think that 
CCUL did anything wrong when providing this loan to Mr M - it carried out fair and 
reasonable checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I wasnt persuaded that CCUL acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing loan 4 to Mr M. And I therefore set out that it was my intention 
to conclude that what it has already agreed to do to put things right in relation to 
compensating Mr M for loans 3 and 5 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. 
I did appreciate this was likely to be disappointing for Mr M  particularly as the investigator 
suggested that the complaint about this loan should also be upheld. But I hoped hed 
understand the reasons for my likely decision and that hed at least feel his concerns had 
been listened to.
Responses to my provisional decision
CCUL confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything further 
to me to consider.
Mr M didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to 
consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In my provisional decision of 23 October 2023, I set out in some detail why I was minded to 
conclude that what CCUL had already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. As the parties havent provided me with 
anything further to consider, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
So overall and having considered everything, I remain satisfied that what CCUL had already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint.
Fair compensation  what CCUL needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for CCUL 
to put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest fees, and charges Mr M paid as a result of loans 3 and 5 (as 
CCUL has already agreed to do):
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information it may have recorded about loans 3 and 5 from       
Mr Ms credit file; 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CCUL to take off tax from this interest. CCUL must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 23 October 2023, Im 
satisfied that what Commsave Credit Union Limited has already agreed to do to put things 
right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. And it doesnt need to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman