DRN-3626138
The complaint
Mr N complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) hasnt refunded the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr N had been in contact via WhatsApp with someone posing as a new friend who offered to 
help him improve his financial situation. With their assistance, hed made an initial payment 
through another banking provider and made a profit on this. It seems he continued to make 
payments through other banks, believing he was investing his money and making good 
returns on it. 
In October 2020, Mr N made a payment of £5,225.85 to MoonPay using his Sainsburys 
credit card. He believed this payment was to cover tax that had to be paid to release his 
returns. But he soon realised hed been the victim of a scam and that his money had been 
lost. 
Sainsburys said that while the payment flagged with its automated fraud prevention 
measures and an SMS was sent, Mr N had confirmed hed authorised the transaction and 
that it couldnt have done more to stop the transaction.
Our investigator considered this complaint. They upheld it on the basis that they believed an 
appropriate intervention by Sainsburys would have unravelled the scam. And they didnt 
think Mr N should bear responsibility for the loss with the information that had been provided.
Sainsburys disagreed. It said it had no concerns over the merchant so couldnt have issued 
a warning about them and it said it didnt contact the consumer. Had it done so, it believes it 
would have learned that Mr N was acting on financial advice and said this wouldnt have 
resulted in a warning or the payment being blocked. 
The complaint was passed to me. I obtained further information in the form of the WhatsApp 
conversations between Mr N and the scammer. As a result of this, I contacted both parties 
informally, as Im allowed to do, to let them know that provisionally I felt that the 
responsibility for the payment to the scammer should be shared. Mr N was disappointed but 
accepted this  but Sainsburys wished to proceed to formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold the complaint for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr N fell victim to a scam. His payment of £5,225.85 was 
ultimately sent to a fraudster. But, as he authorised the payment, the starting position 
is that Mr N would be liable for it.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If Sainsburys failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
In this case, Sainsburys has recognised that this payment was out of the norm for 
Mr N. Because of this, the payment flagged on its fraud alert system and a text 
message was sent to Mr N asking him to confirm hed authorised the payment. But it 
isnt enough for Sainsburys to check that Mr N had authorised the payment  many 
scam victims do. And while Mr N made the payment to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange, it didnt follow that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. 
Had Sainsburys carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr N appropriate 
questions about the payment, I have no reason to doubt that he would have 
explained what he was doing and the true purpose of his payment to MoonPay. He 
had been given no reason to think he had to hide this information from his bank, and 
neither had he been coached to tell them something different. 
Had Sainsburys asked specific questions, Im satisfied it would have realised that 
what was happening to Mr N had the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
So, Im persuaded that a meaningful intervention from Sainsburys at that time would 
have likely exposed the scam. And I think its more likely than not that intervention 
would have stopped Mr N from going ahead with the payment. 
Ive also thought carefully about whether Mr N should bear any responsibility for what 
happened. As Ive already explained to him, the scammer was an individual who hed 
only just met (virtually) and the level of profits theyd claimed to have achieved 
themselves was unrealistic. In addition, Mr N expressed doubt within the WhatsApp 
conversations with the scammer initially. And later on, he expressed further doubt 
when he was asked to pay tax that he hadnt been warned about previously  this 
was despite being walked through every step of the process previously. So, even 
with clear red flags, Mr N proceeded. While I think Sainsburys should have done 
more, Mr N should bear equal responsibility because of his contributory negligence. 
Ive considered whether Sainsburys acted appropriately in terms of attempts to 
recover the money for Mr N. But Im satisfied there isnt a valid Section 75 claim 
(under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) as there isnt a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. And a chargeback wouldnt have been successful on the basis that 
MoonPay  the company the credit card payment was made to - fulfilled the service it 
was paid for.
It's likely this outcome will be disappointing for Mr N, and Im sorry he fell victim to a cruel 
scam. But, despite my natural sympathy for the situation he finds himself in, I cant fairly 
conclude that Sainsburys should fully reimburse him.
Putting things right
If Mr N hadnt made the payment, he wouldnt have incurred any interest or charges on that 
amount on his credit card (if indeed he did so). And hes been deprived of the money he 
made repaying the amount on his credit card. In taking equal responsibility for the payment 
to the scammer and in order to put things right for Mr N in a way that feels fair, I require 
Sainsburys to:
Refund Mr N 50% of the scam payment (as well as associated interest and charges); and
Pay Mr N 8% simple interest per year on this amount until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to 
pay Mr N in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman