DRN-4435906
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the performance of a car he acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance 
(SCUK).
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties. So Im not going to go 
over everything again in detail. But, in summary, Mr B acquired a new electric car under a 
conditional sale agreement with SCUK in May 2022. The car cost around £63,300 and Mr B 
made a £7,000 advance payment. The agreement was to be paid back with monthly 
payments of around £870 followed by a final payment of around £26,000. 
Mr B said he had no issues for the first few months, but after a remote software update 
completed by the manufacturer in October 2022 the estimated range shown on the console 
at full charge decreased from around 260 - 280 miles to around 180 - 190 miles. He says he 
took it back to the dealer, but it was unable to resolve things for him. He says he spoke to 
the manufacturer, but it directed him back to the dealer. He also contacted SCUK about 
rejecting the car. 
SCUK referred to an independent report carried out in January 2023. I understand the 
mileage at this point was around 8,000. The expert said after the car was fully charged the 
estimated range was showing as 193 miles. And the following day, at full charge, it was 
showing as 197 miles. The expert said it was aware the manufacturer carried out software 
updates and that the issue only developed from the previous update.  
The expert said the estimated range was some 80 miles less than the manufacturers 
stipulation. It said there was no evidence the car would achieve a range of more than 197 
miles. It said that in different weather conditions the range might go up, but it didnt consider 
it would go up to 280 miles. The expert said the charging point was acceptable and that the 
car seemed to be fault free. The expert concluded that the issue developed as a result of 
what appears to be the software update and that the car required further investigation by the 
manufacturer. It also said the selling agent has responsibility because the car appears to 
have an underlying issue which has developed since a software update. 
The report was forwarded to the dealer, but it didnt accept it was responsible because the 
fault wasnt present at the point of supply. And it wasnt as a result of anything the dealer 
had done. SCUK obtained further comments from the independent expert who said, in 
summary, that they couldnt see an underlying issue with the car and that the issue wasnt 
present or developing at the point of supply. 
SCUK said the issue wasnt down to the dealer, thered been no fault found and the cause of 
the issue is down to the manufacturer software update, so Mr B would need to take it up with 
the manufacturer direct.
Mr B wasnt happy with this, and he contacted the manufacturer. The manufacturer said the 
relevant software update didnt cause the range to drop. It said the update was optional and 
that there are many factors that can impact the range on this model. It said the independent 
report was very basic and simply indicated the range indicator when it was cold (which it 
says can impact the range). It said no actual energy consumption tests were carried out. It 
said the reference to a 280 mile expected range was wrong because this was the Worldwide 
Harmonised Light Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP) rest results for this model. The 
manufacturer said that when the software update was carried out any previously stored data 
would have been reset, and that it takes time to recalculate the average. The manufacturer 
said the car was within manufacturers tolerance and that there was no defect. 
Mr B disagreed with a lot of the manufacturers points. He said the temperature had no 
impact on this case. He didnt have to consent to the software update  it was done 
automatically. He said the manufacturer hadnt proved or established anything. He says the 
drop in range happened directly after the software update. He said he was achieving 260 
miles from a 100% charge, and it changed to 180 the day after the update. He said it had 
been months since the update and there was still no movement on the estimated range. He 
also said he fully understands how having different settings can impact the range once the 
car is moving, but thats not the issue. He referred his complaint to our service to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think hed seen enough to uphold the 
complaint. He looked into what was updated on the software update and didnt think it 
specifically affected the power management or battery efficiency. He said he noted the video 
Mr B had supplied of a new car of the same model having an estimated range of 263 miles 
but he didnt know how that car had been driven or what environment it was in. Our 
investigator referred to an article published showing results of a range test for this model 
under different conditions. He noted the achievable range can be impacted by colder 
temperatures. And he said the abrupt drop may have been caused by the values having 
been wiped on the car and that it would take some time to be more accurate. 
Mr B didnt accept the recommendations. He said the case isnt about weather conditions or 
driving styles, its about achieving an estimated range of 250  260 miles in the car for the 
first few months and then after the software update only achieving 180  190 miles. 
As things couldnt be resolved the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I asked our investigator to ask Mr B some further questions. In summary, I wanted to know:
The current mileage of the car. 
Whether Mr B could supply evidence of the current estimated range at 100% charge. 
Whether there was any supporting evidence the actual range Mr B covered on a full 
charge had changed over time, or whether his costs had gone up through more 
frequent charging (post software update). 
Mr B responded to say, in summary:
The cars mileage was 13,612.
The range on the car when fully charged hadnt altered since the software update. 
And that for the first five months it gave him a range of around 260 miles, regardless 
of how he drove the car. 
Thered been an independent report saying the range had changed after the software 
update. 
His circumstances had changed and hed sold the car for £52,000 which left him out 
of pocket.
I issued a provisional decision that said:I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr B and SCUK that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr B acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr B entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.
The car was new, so Id have expected it to be in perfect working order and free from even 
minor defects when it was supplied to Mr B. I can fully appreciate why Mr B would have been 
concerned if the displayed estimated range suddenly dropped such a substantial amount 
after a software update. I do take on board Mr Bs point that his complaint isnt about the way 
the car was driven, the weather and so on. But just knowing the displayed estimated range 
after the software update for his car was about 60 miles less than another new model 
doesnt give me sufficient grounds to uphold the complaint. 
On the one hand, Mr B says the estimated range dropped overnight after a software update. 
The independent report essentially agreed the estimated range had dropped after the 
update, and it said the selling agent had responsibility. 
But on the other hand, theres an argument the car had no issues at the point of supply. The 
manufacturer said the relevant software update did not impact the range of the car. The 
update may have reset the stored values. There are certain external factors, such as the 
temperature, that could impact the estimated range of the car  even before its been used 
when fully charged. And weve not seen whether the actual performance worsened after the 
software update.  
If I were to decide there had been a breach of contract in this case that SCUK would be 
liable for, Id likely first need to be satisfied SCUK, as the supplier of the goods under the 
conditional sale agreement, is also liable for any alleged problems caused by a software 
update that was carried out by the manufacturer. But seeing as though Mr B has now sold 
the car, I dont think I need to analyse that further. Ill explain why. 
The independent report that was carried out simply looked at the estimated range on the 
console when the car was at 100% charge. And I think everyone accepts that the estimated 
range shown on the console was lower than another model in a showroom. Having 
considered everything, I think the estimated range showing on the console is one thing. But I 
wanted to know if there was evidence the actual performance of the car had been impacted. 
Because I wasnt persuaded that the estimated range shown on the console told the whole 
story. The problem I have is that the car has now been sold. I dont have any evidence the 
range Mr B was actually able to cover between charges was impacted by the software 
update. Theres no option now to have any tests done such as the energy consumption tests 
the manufacturer referred to. Ive also got no evidence Mr B lost out financially through 
having to charge the car more frequently after the software update. Moreover, Im now not able to see sufficient supporting evidence about what happened more 
recently to the displayed estimated range after the software update  even if I were only 
considering that point in isolation. 
While I appreciate Mr B says nothing changed after the software update, and that things 
didnt go back to what they were like before, Ive not got supporting evidence that enables 
me to reach firm conclusions. Ive not seen enough to demonstrate the car wasnt performing 
as it should do, after the software update. Therefore, in all the circumstances, Ive not seen 
enough to say theres a breach of contract and that, if it was liable, SCUK needs to do 
something to put things right for Mr B. While I can understand why he complained, Ive not 
got the grounds to say that SCUK needs to reimburse Mr B for any losses he says hes 
incurred when he sold the car. 
I cant see we received a response from SCUK. Mr B responded with further information. 
Hes shown us an example of what his console showed prior to the software upgrade. This 
shows a range of 255 miles at full charge. Hes shown screenshots from November 2022 
and March 2023 with ranges at full charge between 176 and 194 miles. Hes also shown the 
same model car was advertised in 2023 as having a 318-mile range. And hes shown us an 
article he made a comment on. 
Mr B reiterated he achieved around 260  280 range on a full charge within the first few 
months. He asked why his range decreased by 80 miles. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr B for his response. I do understand where hes coming from. I note hes 
written in the article that hes asked the ombudsman (along with other parties) where his 
range has gone. But its not my role to do that. I need to consider how SCUK, as a provider 
of financial services, has handled his complaint. Im reliant on the evidence submitted by the 
parties to make a conclusion. 
Mr B has highlighted a different advertised range of the car. The article is from 2023 so Im 
not sure if its the exact same model. And as pointed out earlier, this range is the WLTP test 
results carried out in very particular conditions. I think the WLTP figures have generally been 
used in order for customers to be able to compare models over the last few years. Mr B 
shouldnt have been misled about how many miles he could achieve in the car, but he was 
happy with the car to start with. His complaint centres around whether a software update has 
impacted the performance of it, rather than being misled through the advertised range. So 
thats what Ive focussed on.  
What I can see is that the range on the console at full charge changed from around 250 to 
around 190. And he says this was as a result of a software update. The independent expert 
thought this was likely too. SCUK on the other hand, has said there was no problem with the 
car at the point of supply which is what its liable for. The manufacturer has said the update 
didnt impact the range. Ive had to weigh the evidence up. I didnt make firm conclusions, 
but even if I were to find SCUK was liable for the issues off the back of a manufacturer 
software update, Ive not been shown any evidence to demonstrate the actual range Mr B 
was achieving changed, or that he was losing out through having to charge the car more 
frequently after the update. I also dont know whats continued to happen to the estimated 
range on the car because Mr B sold it. I didnt consider there was a strong enough argument 
to say thered been a breach of contract. Moreover, its important to bear in mind Mr B took the decision to sell the car. There might 
have been grounds to uphold the complaint if there was sufficient evidence. But it cant be 
inspected again. And even though Mr B has said he wants to reject it, thats no longer 
possible. I cant direct SCUK to take it back. The only thing left to decide is whether SCUK 
needs to reimburse Mr B anything he says hes lost out on. But, for the reasons given above, 
I dont find I have the grounds to do that.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman