DRN-2896049
The complaint
Mr S complains Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to pay for his car to be 
wrapped. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr Ss car was damaged in a collision with a third-party. He claimed on his 
Haven commercial vehicle policy. Some initial repairs were completed. Before the collision 
the car had a full body wrap. The wrapping on the nearside front wing was damaged during 
the collision. Mr S said the type of wrap meant it needed to be fully replaced. He said a 
partial rewrap of the damaged area only would look inconsistent. Haven said it would only 
initially authorise replacement of the damaged area. But would consider a full rewrap if Mr S 
was unsatisfied with the results of the partial rewrap.  
In November 2018 Mr S took the car to a repairer authorised by Haven. It was fully 
rewrapped. He says he thought Haven was going to cover the cost as part of the claim. But 
some months later, the repairer requested he pay the £2,400 bill for the rewrap. Haven 
refused to pay it as it hadnt authorised the full wrap work  only the rewrapping of the 
damaged area. 
Haven continued to refuse to pay for the work. Mr S says he had to pay the repairer. He 
wants Haven to reimburse that money. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt provided with a 
courtesy car while the car was being rewrapped.
Our investigator recommended Haven cover the cost of the full wrap. She also said it should 
cover Mr Ss costs for transporting his car to the wrap provider - plus any hire car costs for 
the time it was with that supplier.  Haven didnt accept the assessment. So the complaint 
was been passed to me. 
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I intended to come to a 
different outcome to the investigator. I set out why I didnt think it would be fair for Haven to 
pay the for the full wrap, the transport costs or for a hire car. I explained why I thought it 
reasonable for Haven to instead pay Mr S £240 to cover the cost of a partial rewrap. Those 
findings form part of this final decision  so Ive copied them in below. 
In the provisional decision I also invited Mr S and Haven to provide anything they would like 
me to consider before I came to a final decision. Haven didnt respond. Mr S didnt accept 
my proposal. He provided several comments. Ive addressed those, where I feel it 
necessary, below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive listened to the last call between Mr S and Haven before he took his car to the 
repairer. In it Haven explained a number of times that it had only authorised a partial 
rewrap. It explains that if hes unhappy with the results it will consider a full rewrap. 
Im satisfied from Mr Ss responses that he understood Havens position  and that 
when he took the car to the repairer, he was aware it hadnt agreed at that stage to a 
full rewrap.
Having looked at Havens notes, Im satisfied it fully intended to provide a full rewrap 
if Mr S was unhappy with results. It had contacted its replacement car hire company 
to explain a booking from Mr S may need to be extended in those circumstances. 
I think it was reasonable for Haven to want to minimise claims costs by initially seeing 
if a partial rewrap would be successful. The difference in costs was significant - £240 
against £2,400. It seems, from notes of a call with the repairer, that it was Mr S who 
instructed a full rewrap despite being aware Haven had only authorised the partial 
job. By doing that he removed Havens opportunity to try to minimise costs by seeing 
if a partial rewrap would be satisfactory.
Our investigator felt Haven should cover the cost of the full wrap anyway. In brief she 
felt it the partial job would probably prove to be unsatisfactory. So Haven would have 
ultimately authorised a full wrap anyway. 
I dont agree with the investigator. Ive thought about what Mr S has said about the 
particular wrap on his car. Ive also considered the repairers comments to Haven. It 
said there could be a difference between the new and existing wrap. It said it all 
depends on the temperature when the work is done. I accept its possible the partial 
rewrap could have been unsatisfactory  but I dont agree it was most likely. So as 
Mr S removed Havens chance to find out, I dont feel it would be fair to require it to 
pay for the full wrap.
But I think it should reimburse Mr S the £240 estimated cost of the partial rewrap 
Haven had authorised and reclaimed from the third-partys insurer. It would have paid 
that out if the partial rewrap had been successful.  
Our investigator said Haven should cover any car hire costs for the period Mr Ss car 
was being rewrapped. I can see Mr Ss policy does provide for a replacement car 
when his in his for repairs. I might think it fair for Haven to cover hire costs for the 
three days the car would have been in for the partial rewrap. Id only think that if I 
thought hed made reasonable efforts to request one from Haven at the time  and if 
he could show he had incurred costs as a result of its failure to provide one. But 
unfortunately Mr Ss been unable to show that so far. So I dont intend to require 
Haven to pay anything towards car hire costs.  
The investigator also said Haven should cover the cost of Mr S travel to the repairer. 
Id think that reasonable if Haven had caused him to make unnecessary trips. But I 
cant see that it did. Instead he seems to have made only journeys that, 
unfortunately, are standard part of an insurance claim of this nature. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr S has repeated his position that the only option for a satisfactory repair was a full rewrap. 
He says the repairer advised Haven that a full rewrap was necessary. I havent seen 
anything to support that. The repairer didnt seem to rule out a partial rewrap being 
satisfactory. As I explained in my provisional decision the repairer is reported as saying the 
quality of the repair would depend on a number of factors. 
Mr S feels cost shouldnt have been a concern for Haven as he wasnt at fault for the 
damage. But Haven has a responsibility to claim only reasonable costs from the third-party 
insurer.  
As I said before, it was reasonable of Haven to try to a partial wrap initially. Im satisfied it 
intended to authorise a full wrap if a partial wrap proved unsuccessful. Its unfortunate that 
Mr S, knowing Havens position, instead instructed the repairer to undertake the full work. As 
I said previously, by doing so, he took away Havens opportunity to try to minimise the claim 
costs. For the reasons given above, I still feel its possible the partial rewrap could have 
been successful. So Im not making Haven pay the cost of the full rewrap. Instead, for the 
reasons given above, Im requiring it to pay Mr S the £240 cost of the partial rewrap. 
Ive considered everything Mr S has provided in response to my provisional decision  
including his comments about being required to deal with the claim himself, to take his 
vehicle to repairer himself and courtesy car provision. He hasnt said or provided anything 
thats changed my position set out above. That means Im not going to require Haven to 
cover any transport, car hire costs or pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £240. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman