DRN-3116598
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of Ms H that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as 
Very) unfairly charged a late payment fee and compound interest, did not handle her 
complaint properly, and reported incorrect information on her credit file.
What happened
Ms H ordered an item on a buy now pay later (BNPL) agreement with Very for £999. 
Payment was due on 22 November 2019 and Ms H paid the full amount on the 25 November 
2019. Very added a late payment charge and compound interest to the account. Ms H 
wasnt happy with this and complained to Very. Very agreed to refund the late payment 
charge to reflect delays and confusion relating to the handling of the complaint but it did not 
accept that the interest had been unfairly charged.
In December 2020 Ms H did not pay the amount due until 9 January 2021 when she cleared 
her balance in full. In April 2021 Ms H checked her credit report which showed a missed 
payment in February 2021 and a balance of £342 outstanding.
Ms H says that Very has incorrectly reported a late payment and unfairly charged interest 
and has not dealt with her complaint properly. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
that Very had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement by adding interest 
and a late payment fee because the payment was late. They thought that Very hadnt done 
anything wrong in reporting the second late repayment and the reason that the credit file was 
not updated correctly was because of a change to the way information was reported to the 
credit reference agencies. They explained that this service isnt able to look at the way the 
business handled Ms Hs complaint.  
Mr S on behalf of Ms H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and said in 
summary that Very had acted unfairly and the business was getting the benefit of the doubt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I dont intend to repeat them in detail in this 
decision or comment on every fact. Instead I will focus on giving reasons for my conclusions.
I can understand how frustrated Ms H is, as a longstanding customer of Very to be charged 
significant interest when the payment was only a few days late. I can see from the chat 
history when the complaint was first raised with Very, that Ms H was mistaken about when 
the payment was due. I accept that she never intended to pay late. However, the fact 
remains that the payment was late. Because of this, Very is entitled in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement, to add compound interest and a late payment fee. I cant 
say that the business has acted unfairly in these circumstances.
The second late payment which was due in December 2020 was reported to the credit 
reference agencies in January 2021 but didnt show correctly on Ms Hs credit file because 
of the timing of the reporting. I know that Ms H has now paid her balance in full and I 
understand how upsetting it must be to have a late payment marker on her credit file when 
she doesnt feel that this is a correct reflection of the account. The December repayment 
wasnt made until January and so I cant say that Very was wrong to report this information. 
Because of the way that the credit file has been updated, it has taken some time for the 
correct balance to show and the late payment marker is recorded in February 2021 but I 
cant say that Very has done anything wrong in the way that it has reported this information.
I appreciate that Ms H is upset about how her complaint has been handled but as our 
Investigator explained, this service isnt able to consider complaints handling so I cant 
comment on this. 
Ms H has also said that interest continued to be added during a repayment holiday but I 
cant say that this is unfair as there was no agreement to freeze interest during a repayment 
holiday. I do sympathise with Ms Hs strength of feeling about the way she has been treated 
by Very but on the information I have I cant ask the business to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
28 February 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman