DRN-3148397
The complaint
 Mrs and Mr D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
 Mrs and Mr D took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 3 March 
2020 for a holiday which was due to take place from 20 August until 14 September 2020. 
Mrs and Mr D paid a total of £1005.59 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a number of declared 
medical conditions. They also paid an additional premium of £19.98 (excluding IPT) for travel 
disruption extension cover. 
The cost of Mrs and Mr Ds policy also included a discount of £100.15, which they received 
at the point they purchased their policy. In total, Mrs and Mr D paid £1130.54 for their policy 
including IPT.
On 7 August 2020, Mrs and Mr D contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were unable to 
travel to their intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They asked Great 
Lakes to cancel their policy and refund the premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr D that a full refund couldnt be provided as their 14 day 
cooling off period had expired and, under the terms of their policy, no refund was due. But 
it said they could either change the dates for their policy or receive a pro rata refund by way 
of a voucher, which would be valid for use within 36 months. 
Great Lakes offered Mrs and Mr D a credit voucher for £139.96 which it said represented a 
pro-rata refund of the premiums theyd paid. The voucher was valid for 36 months. But Mrs 
and Mr D werent happy with Great Lakes offer and complained to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started on 3 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during 
that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought Great Lakes offer to refund by voucher was fair and reasonable. But they 
didnt think Great Lakes had correctly calculated the pro-rata refund that was due to Mrs and 
Mr D. So, they recommended upholding this complaint and asked Great Lakes to recalculate 
the refund. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and recalculated Mrs and 
Mr Ds refund in line with our investigators recommendation. But Mrs and Mr D disagreed 
with our investigators view of their complaint. They were content with the refund amount 
proposed but didnt think a voucher payment was fair. Ive therefore been asked to decide 
what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs and Mr D to receive a full 
refund of the premiums because: 
Cover under Mrs and Mr Ds policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they received. 
Im satisfied Mrs and Mr D were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
Mrs and Mr D werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered Mrs and Mr D for cancellation cover from 3 March 2020. So, the 
premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any 
of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mrs and 
Mr D falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In this case, I can see that Great Lakes calculated Mrs and Mr Ds pro-rata refund of 
their premiums from 7 August 2020 until the date their trip was due to end. Great 
Lakes used this date as the relevant policy cancellation date as thats the date that 
Mrs and Mr D first asked it to cancel the policy. 
Mrs and Mr D havent been able to provide any evidence to our service showing their 
holiday was cancelled prior to 7 August 2020. So, Im satisfied that its fair for Great 
Lakes to use this date as the starting point for any refund calculation. I think this fairly 
reflects the period of time in which Great Lakes was at risk of paying a claim. It was 
no longer at risk of paying a claim from 7 August 2020 onwards. And Im satisfied the 
calculation of the voucher refund reflects that Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr D 
since they took out the policy in March 2020.
While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mrs and Mr D, it used its 
discretion to offer them a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a pro-
rata monetary refund. This voucher is valid for 36 months and our service would view 
this as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a 
reasonable period within which Mrs and Mr D can use it towards future travel 
insurance policies they may wish to take out.
Mrs and Mr D have told our investigator that theyd prefer a pro-rata monetary refund 
as an alternative to a credit voucher because they arent intending to travel in the 
future due to their age, health and the pandemic. But thats their choice  I havent 
seen any deterioration in health conditions that might preclude travel and I can see 
that Mrs and Mr D were prepared to travel in August 2020 with the health conditions 
they declared to Great Lakes.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in 
offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed from 
industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mrs and Mr D because of 
the unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. 
I therefore think its offer of a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable 
Ive carefully looked at whether the refund amount offered by Great Lakes to Mrs and 
Mr D was fair and reasonable. In this case Mrs and Mr D were given a discount of 
£100.15 at the point of sale. When Great Lakes calculated the voucher refund it 
offered Mrs and Mr D, this was based on it removing the discount they received at 
the end of the calculation. Its starting point was to add the discount onto the price 
Mrs and Mr D paid. It then subtracted the additional cover cost and divided this 
amount by the 196 days of cover Mrs and Mr D had purchased. It then multiplied that 
sum by the 39 days they werent on risk and subtracted the discount theyd received. 
I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate 
the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in 
days) multiplied by days not on risk. I can see Great Lakes has now agreed to issue 
Mrs and Mr D a voucher in line with this calculation.I can also see that when Great Lakes calculated the refund it offered Mrs and Mr D it 
didnt include any refund for the additional cover theyd purchased. Mrs and Mr D 
paid for optional travel disruption extension cover. This cover includes extended 
cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced stay 
benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the risk of a claim under the 
optional travel disruption extension cover from 7 August 2020. So, it would be fair 
and reasonable for Mrs and Mr D to receive a pro-rata refund of the premium they 
paid for this cover.
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for 
the additional cover option within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be 
difficult to tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mrs and Mr D 
didnt travel on their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made 
under the additional cover option attached to their single trip insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional 
cover options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus 
getting extra cover at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the 
case here, as Mrs and Mr Ds holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover option have been 
calculated on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the 
policy. However, the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip 
insurance policy, so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the 
additional cover option which Mrs and Mr D paid for any differently. 
Putting things right
 To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should issue Mrs and Mr D with a credit voucher 
refund for £224.95, which includes both a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid and a 
pro-rata refund for the travel disruption cover they took out when they purchased their policy. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mrs and Mr Ds complaint, 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman