DRN-2235275
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A. has settled a personal possessions claim she made on her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B was on holiday abroad. Unfortunately, she lost a bag containing a drone; drone 
batteries; USB and SD card devices; the leather carrier and cables, amongst other items. 
She obtained a police report and made a claim on her travel insurance policy for around 
£1780.
Mapfre accepted the majority of the claim. It didnt include the lost cables in the settlement, 
because these hadnt been listed on the police report. But it agreed to accept the other items 
Mrs B had claimed for. It considered these items fell within the definition of valuables in the 
policy  either because the items were electrical equipment or because they were made of 
leather. It paid Mrs B a settlement of £200 in line with the policy valuables limit.
Mrs B was unhappy with the settlement shed been paid. She said the policy personal 
possessions limit was £1250. She didnt agree that the USB devices, batteries and SD cards 
should be treated as electrical equipment or as valuables. And she felt the leather bag 
should be treated as an ordinary personal possession. So she asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had settled Mrs Bs claim fairly. She felt Mapfre had acted in 
line with its policy terms by excluding the cables from the settlement. And she felt that given 
Mrs B had kept all of the equipment in one bag, it was fair to treat the contents as 
component parts of the drone. And that it was therefore reasonable for Mapfre to conclude 
the items were valuables and to apply the valuables limit to the settlement it paid.
Mrs B disagreed. She didnt think it was fair to consider the items as component parts of the 
drone simply because they were in the same bag. And there was no specific definition of 
electrical equipment in the policy terms and conditions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mapfre has settled Mrs Bs claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy and the circumstances of 
her claim to decide whether I think Mapfre handled her claim reasonably.
Ive first considered the terms of Mrs Bs policy. Her claim was considered under Section E  
Personal Belongings and Baggage. This says:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on pages 6 and 7 for the 
following:
After taking off an amount for wear and tear and loss of value, we will reimburse you for an 
item that you own that you have lost or that has been damaged or stolen. There is a limit for 
each item, set or pair, and for valuables as set out in the table of benefits.
The table of benefits sets out that the total limit that Mapfre will pay for valuable items is 
£200.
Mapfre considers that the items Mrs B claimed for fall within its definition of electrical 
equipment. Mrs B disagrees. So Ive next turned to look at how the terms of Mrs Bs 
insurance contract define what Mapfre means by valuables. The policy definitions section 
says:
Photographic, audio, video and electrical equipment (including CDs, DVDs, video and 
audio tapes and electronic games), MP3 players, games consoles, personal organisers, 
eReaders (including eBooks and Kindles), computer equipment, laptops, tablet PC's 
(including iPads), netbook computers, binoculars, antiques, e-cigarettes and associated 
vapour liquids, jewellery, watches, furs, leather goods, animal skins, silks, precious stones 
and items made of or containing gold, silver or precious metals, hearing aids, sports and 
leisure equipment (e.g. Bicycle) and musical instruments. (Bold is my emphasis)
I accept that the policy doesnt define what Mapfre means by electrical equipment. Where 
theres no definition of a term, I take the ordinary and natural meaning of it. In this case, the 
dictionary definition of electrical goods, items or equipment is that they work by means of 
electricity. In this case, Im satisfied it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that the batteries, 
cables, SD cards and USB drives Mrs B claimed for do work by means of electricity. And so I 
think it was reasonable for Mapfre to treat the items as falling within the scope of electrical 
equipment.
Even if I hadnt reached this conclusion though, in my view, the items Mrs B claimed for 
could also reasonably be considered as computer equipment, as USB drives and cables, in 
particular, together with SD cards are commonly used in conjunction with computers. And 
while Mrs B didnt feel her leather bag should be treated as a valuable item, Im satisfied that 
leather goods are specifically included within the policy definition of valuables.
Im not persuaded that it was fair for Mapfre not to include the cables when it initially 
considered the claim, simply because they werent set out on the police report. I think its 
possible that these relatively small and inexpensive items couldve been overlooked at the 
outset. But as Ive already explained, I think theyd fall within the definition of valuable items 
and so thered be nothing more for Mapfre to pay, as its already settled the claim up to the 
policy limit.
Mrs B also thought it wasnt fair for the investigator to consider all the items as being 
component parts of the drone, simply because they were kept in the same bag. Ive thought 
about this. But the claim form states that the bag was a drone bag and the batteries were 
listed as drone batteries. The other items seem to be widely used together with drone 
equipment. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the investigator to conclude that the lost 
equipment were component parts of the drone.Overall, while I appreciate Mrs B has been left out of pocket and I sympathise with her 
position, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to treat the items she claimed for as 
valuables. So it follows I think it was entitled to apply the valuables limit to the settlement it 
paid for her claim. This means I dont think Mapfre needs to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman