DRN-4207247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Intelligent Finance will not 
refund the payment they made to a company who they now believe scammed them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, I will briefly summarise the key points.
In late 2016, Mr and Mrs F made a payment from their Intelligent Finance account, for 
£120,000, to a company I will refer to as S. S were authorised by a foreign regulator. It 
appears Mr and Mrs F received several credits from S running into mid-2017. In 2019, S 
went into liquidation. 
Mr and Mrs F complained to Intelligent Finance in early 2022, saying they had been 
scammed and so it should refund them. Intelligent Finance did not agree. It said they had a 
history of investing and would have been aware that S were a high-risk investment who were 
not regulated in the UK. As Mr and Mrs F had received some proceeds from S prior to their 
liquidation, it suggested they could pursue the matter against S as a civil issue. It also paid 
£25 for customer service issues. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to our service. They said 
the transaction had been made after a very short call, with no inquiry into the nature of the 
transaction or their confidence in the recipient. So Intelligent Finance failed to conduct 
proper due diligence. 
Our investigator was not persuaded S were running a scam. But if they were, he did not 
think that would not have obvious to the parties at the time. So, aside from the £25 
compensation already paid, he did not think Intelligent Finance should pay redress. 
The case has since been passed to me as Mr and Mrs F have appealed the investigators 
outcome. They say the police are investigating and consider S a scam. They also do not 
believe the investigator has sufficiently considered Intelligent Finances anti-money 
laundering obligations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. I will explain why. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2009, in force at the time, the bank had a duty 
to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It is not disputed that Mr 
and Mrs F authorised the payment. So the starting position is that they are liable for it. 
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks also have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payment was going to a 
fraudster; meaning that Intelligent Finance could have delayed the payments while concerns 
were discussed with Mr and/or Mrs F. 
So, in order to determine that Intelligent Finance ought to have done more here, I would 
need to be satisfied that S were operating a scam when the payment was made. I have 
borne in mind that there is a high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. Even if a 
merchant can be viewed as having acted unreasonably or unethically, that does not 
necessarily demonstrate they set out with an intent to defraud their customers.
Mr and Mrs F think S were a Ponzi scheme. And I appreciate there are some indications 
they may have been. However, S were regulated (albeit in another jurisdiction)  which is 
unusual for a scammer, given the standards and accountability this involves.
Mr and Mrs F say the police are investigating S. But I have not seen anything confirming 
they have (yet) found enough evidence to charge those running S with a crime. Similarly, 
while Mr and Mrs F say the regulator who authorised S suspects they were a scam, I have 
not seen anything to show it found evidence to confirm more than a suspicion. 
Public information online shows S to be a liquidated company due to lack of assets. They do 
not appear on the FCAs watchlist of suspected scammers, or on similiar warning lists issued 
by foreign regulators. And so, on the evidence  which I accept is limited  I am not 
persuaded there is enough to show S were a scam.
That said, I appreciate some of the enquiries into S may be ongoing. So they may later be 
confirmed to be a scam. And so I have considered whether, in those circumstances, 
Intelligent Finance did enough to try to protect Mr and Mrs F.  
I have considered the point Mr and Mrs F have raised about Intelligent Finances obligations 
to meet its anti-money laundering requirements. But the Money Laundering Regulations 
2007 they have referred to relate to when a bank is expected to complete customer due 
diligence  i.e. identifiying information about the customer to help assess the money 
laundering risk. So I consider the more relevant consideration here is Intelligent Finances 
duty to Mr and Mrs F, to help protect them from financial harm from fraud.
In any event, if Intelligent Finance identified the payment to S as posing a potential scam 
risk, I would expect it to have questioned them about the wider circumstances behind the 
payment. And that, so far as I understand, is similar to what Mr and Mrs F argue Intelligent 
Finance should have done. So regardless of the particularly duty underlying this, the key 
consideration is the same; did Intelligent Finance adequately assess the payment? And if 
not, is that failing the cause of a fraudulent loss suffered by Mr and Mrs F? 
I do want to clarify that I would not expect Intelligent Finance to provide Mr and Mrs F with 
investment advice. It is not authorised to do so. And I would expect a consumer to complete 
their own due diligence when making a large investment (including seeking advice as 
appropriate). But that should not prevent Intelligent Finance from warning a customer if it has 
reason to suspect they may be at risk of falling victim to an investment scam.Mr and Mrs F say their payment of £120,000 was stopped by Intelligent Finance. But it 
simply checked it was them authorising the payment and did not question them further. 
Given the value of the payment, and how uncharacteristic it looked compared to their usual 
account activity, I do think there is a reasonable case that Intelligent Finance should have 
taken further steps in response to the risk it appeares to have identified. 
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs F think Intelligent Finance ought to have done more. But I 
do not agree this means it is liable for their loss. To reach that conclusion, I would need to be 
satisfied that Intelligent Finance not only failed in its duty to protect Mr and Mrs F in some 
way. I would also need to conclude that any such failing caused (or contributed to) their loss. 
Even if Intelligent Finance had (for example) warned Mr and Mrs F of the common features 
of invesment scams, and given them information about what they should check to ensure S 
were legitimate, I am not persuaded that would likely have prevented their loss. That is 
because, at the time, I do not believe there were reasonable grounds to suspect S were a 
scam  even with further research. It appears concerns about S did not emerge for some 
time after Mr and Mrs Fs payment. I have not found public information available when this 
payment was made indicating S were likely a scam. 
It appears Mr and Mrs F thought S were offering a legimate investment. I cannot see what 
would have reasonably given them doubt about this if they had looked into S further, to an 
extent likely to have prevented them from investing. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs F, who have clearly lost a lot of money. 
But I do not think Intelligent Finance can fairly be held responsible. I have not found any 
errors it may have made to be the cause of their loss. 
Intelligent Finance paid Mr and Mrs F £25 compensation to apologise for service failings  I 
understand there was a delay responding when they reported the scam. Our investigator did 
not think more was due as a result of the service failings. Mr and Mrs F have not disputed 
this. Nor have I seen evidence that the delay had a further impact on them which warranted 
further compensation. And so I am not awarding anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman