DRN-4457852
The complaint
A, a limited company which qualifies as a micro-enterprise under our rules, complains about 
its application for a buy to let mortgage with Aldermore Bank Plc.
What happened
A is a limited company which lets out property to tenants. Via a broker, it applied to 
Aldermore for a mortgage to finance the purchase of a new-build property.
The mortgage completed on 27 May 2022. A complained that there was some delay in 
completing because of failures by Aldermore and its solicitors. And A also complained that it 
wasnt made aware that it would have to pay legal fees in connection with the mortgage.
A's director, Mr W, said that he had first applied via a broker in February 2022. At this time, 
A had already exchanged contracts on the property in the expectation that it would purchase 
it outright. But Mr W decided to use some of the companys funds for other purposes, and so 
needed a mortgage to make up the remainder of the purchase price. A applied for a 
mortgage of around £100,000.
Mr W said he made clear at the time that it was essential the funds were in place by the 
expected completion date of mid-April. In March, Aldermore asked for further information 
which Mr W provided immediately. But Aldermore didnt issue a mortgage offer until 28 April 
2022.
Mr W says that because contracts had already been exchanged, As solicitors had done all 
the legal work and carried out searches. But when the mortgage offer was issued, he was 
told that A would also have to pay for Aldermores solicitors. Mr W decided to go ahead 
because there wasnt time to look for an alternative lender, but complained that he hadnt 
been told that A would need to pay legal costs at the point of application.
Mr W says that by this point there was considerable pressure to complete the purchase in 
time. He and the broker repeatedly chased Aldermore, and As solicitors had difficulty getting 
information from Aldermores solicitors. Completion finally happened on 27 May 2022, over 
two weeks after the deadline  Mr W says the delay caused considerable stress and 
inconvenience, as well as the worry that A might lose its 10% deposit if completion couldnt 
happen in time. In fact, the developers A bought the property from didnt impose a penalty 
for late completion, but Mr W was concerned that A faced that risk because of the delay.
Mr W therefore complained, on behalf of A, that A had had to pay additional legal fees of 
around £1,300 that it hadnt been made aware of when it applied for the mortgage, as well 
as additional costs of around £500 for time its solicitors spent liaising with Aldermores 
solicitors. Aldermore also required the directors of A to take independent legal advice at a 
further cost of around £400. And he complained that Aldermore had delayed the application, 
risking A losing the property and forfeiting its deposit.
Aldermore said it was standard for legal fees to be paid by the borrower. It had made that 
clear both in the illustration it issued in early March 2022 and in the mortgage offer. It said 
that its solicitors had told As solicitors what was required on 27 April 2022 but As solicitors 
didnt reply until 11 May and didnt provide all the documents needed until 23 May, so 
completion couldnt have happened any sooner.
Our investigator said that there are always legal fees associated with a mortgage, and 
Aldermore made clear they were As responsibility. But she wasnt persuaded Aldermore 
had made that clear at the earliest opportunity, which had caused A some inconvenience.
She recommended that Aldermore pay A £100 compensation. Mr W on behalf of A didnt 
accept that and asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. I took a different view so I 
issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts to the parties.
My provisional decision
I said:
This complaint is primarily about whether Aldermore made clear that A would need 
to pay legal fees as part of the mortgage.
Mr W says that he wasnt made aware of that until the mortgage offer was issued at 
the end of April 2022, by which time it was too late to apply elsewhere so A had no 
choice but to proceed.
Aldermore says that it told As broker about this in an email in early March, when it 
sent the mortgage illustration. Ive seen a copy of that email, and it does set out that 
A would need to pay legal fees as part of the process. The broker says that she didnt 
receive that email. But Aldermore says that its checked its systems and the email 
was sent correctly, and not returned undelivered. I dont know for sure what 
happened. Its possible the email wasnt delivered to the broker, or was wrongly 
intercepted by a security system. The broker hasnt pointed to any technical 
difficulties with her system at the time.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that the email was properly sent. I dont 
therefore think that I can hold Aldermore responsible if it wasnt received by the 
broker. In any case, I think this is something the broker should have been aware of 
and taken into account as part of giving A mortgage advice. Ive checked, and 
Aldermores policy regarding legal costs is set out on its intermediary website. I dont 
therefore think that I can fairly hold Aldermore responsible for A being unaware that it 
would need to pay legal costs as part of its process.
Ive also thought about whether the fees A had to pay were fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Aldermore requires conveyancing work in respect of its own needs for processing the 
mortgage to be carried out by a firm it has approved. A borrower can use one of 
Aldermores approved firms, or they can use their own solicitor. But if they use their 
own solicitor, they will be responsible both for their own legal fees and for those 
charged by Aldermores solicitor. I dont think thats unreasonable. Its standard 
practice in the mortgage industry, in my experience. Most lenders require legal work 
to be done by a firm on the lenders approved panel.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for some of the work already done by As 
solicitor needing to be repeated by Aldermores solicitor. But as I say its reasonable 
for Aldermore to require legal work to be done by a solicitors firm it has approved. In 
many cases, the borrower could have just used Aldermores firm rather than appointing their own alongside. That wasnt an option in this case because A had 
already instructed solicitors and arranged contracts before deciding to apply for a 
mortgage  but Aldermore isnt responsible for that. It's also not responsible for the 
extra costs charged by As solicitor for liaising with Aldermores solicitor.
Its also part of Aldermores standard criteria for buy to let lending  as set out on its 
intermediary website  that where it lends to limited companies it requires a personal 
guarantee from the directors. Again, thats not unreasonable, even if some other 
lenders dont require this. Where a personal guarantee is required, its important to 
make sure that the directors  in their personal capacity, and separate from the 
limited company  understand the nature of what theyre agreeing to. So Aldermore 
required Mr W and the other director to take personal legal advice to confirm that. Its 
reasonable for Aldermore to want the extra security of a personal guarantee when 
lending to a limited company, and so it was necessary for Mr W and the other 
director to take advice to ensure Aldermore could rely on the guarantee if it ever 
needed to.
Im therefore not persuaded that the legal fees A had to pay, required by Aldermore, 
were unfair or unreasonable. And so I dont uphold this part of the complaint either.
Finally, Aldermore issued the mortgage offer at the end of April, once it had all the 
information it required. It was only at that point that its solicitors were instructed. I 
dont think a period of around four weeks between a mortgage offer and completion 
is unreasonable.
And while A needed completion to happen as soon as possible in this particular case, 
I can see that Aldermores solicitors didnt have all the information they needed until 
23 May, and completion happened a few days later on 27 May. I appreciate that time 
was important for A, but it was As choice not to apply for a mortgage until it had 
already exchanged contracts. I cant hold Aldermore responsible for the urgency that 
resulted, and I dont think there was unreasonable delay once the application was 
made.
The responses to my provisional decision
A accepted my provisional decision, and Aldermore said it had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Having done so, 
and noted that neither party had any further points to make, I see no reason to change my 
mind. The reasons given in my provisional decision, set out above, are the reasons for my 
final decision in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 Simon Pugh
Ombudsman