DRN-3610523
The complaint
Mr R complains HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined his building warranty claim.
What happened
Mr Rs new-build property is covered by a ten-year Checkmate Castle 10 building warranty 
policy. The cover started in August 2018. 
Within the first two years of the policy, Mr R made a claim for water ingress via the rear wall 
of his integrated garage. The front of the garage is below the lounge, and the rear is below 
a flat roof balcony area. The rear garage wall is a retaining wall, with 1.3m below the 
external ground level. 
During the first two years of the policy, the original builder is responsible for the cost of 
putting right physical damage caused by its failure to comply with the requirements. 
The requirements are contained within Checkmates technical manual that was in force at 
the time of construction.
The policy defines physical damage as a material change in the physical condition of the 
new home from its intended physical condition. 
The physical damage definition includes major physical damage, which the policy defines 
as a material change in the physical condition of a load bearing element of the new home 
from its intended physical condition which adversely affects its structural stability or 
resistance to damp and water penetration.
The new home definition includes integral garages. 
Mr R says, in an attempt to resolve the problem, the builder took several actions which were 
unsuccessful.
The builder went on to cease trading. So, under the policy terms, HDI became responsible 
for the builders obligations. HDIs surveyor attended. His report set out the following 
observations:
- Water ingress was visible during his first visit. Images were also provided by Mr R 
that showed an area of ponding to the garage floor after heavy rainfall. 
- A revisit took place following heavy rain, and some water ponding was found on 
the garage floor, and the blockwork was wet to touch. However, there were no 
damp smells or mustiness within the dwelling.
- Part of the external face stonework was visibly wet, suggesting excessive water 
ingress is finding a way into the cavity from the flat roof upstand/parapet detail, 
along with the cavity tray/below ground damp proof membrane (DPM) not 
being correctly installed.
- The requirements state garages should have a minimum weather resistance 
equivalent to that provided by 100mm masonry pointed both sides of the wall. 
Although theres some water ingress, its the amount expected from that 
specification.
The surveyors report noted that if the claim was valid, the following actions are required:
- Remove decking adjoining the rear parapet wall to inspect/repair any flat roof 
covering upstand and gutter outlet.
- Expose the cavity tray to ensure its correctly positioned and its a continuous tray, 
replace if required and install clean weepholes.
- Expose the external below ground waterproof membrane to ensure it extends 
150mm above ground level, carry out remedial works if required.
- Replace the flashband with a lead flashing, over the below ground waterproof 
membrane upstand.
HDI pointed towards the following requirements in the technical manual:
-Integral garage  ensure that it is finished internally to a reasonable, basic level 
of decoration appropriate for its intended use. It is weathertight (not necessarily 
watertight, 100mm brick wall) and where abutting the house incorporates a 
suitable cavity tray and flashing. 
- In respect of garages and small outbuildings  Walls should have the minimum 
weather resistance equivalent to that provided by 100mm masonry pointed both 
sides of the wall.
HDI said the rear wall consists of two leaves of 100mm blockwork, with a 125mm cavity filled 
with reinforcement and concrete, and therefore, the thickness of the wall meets the 
requirements. On that basis, HDI declined the claim.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service, and one of our investigators thought it should be 
upheld. She noted that as per the requirements, an integral garage has to be weathertight. 
She didnt think Mr Rs garage was weathertight given the problem arose when it rained.
HDI explained that whilst there was some water seepage through the rear wall of the garage 
following heavy rain, the rain doesnt penetrate through the wall at the time and its more 
likely to be from the adjacent ground being waterlogged. 
HDI accepted there was some physical damage which is causing some water seepage into
the garage. HDI said, in order to repair the damage, it would need to conduct further tests to 
ascertain where the damage is. However, HDI said Mr R hasnt been able to demonstrate 
there has been a failure of the requirements, so there isnt a valid claim. 
HDI reiterated a garage isnt required to be weathertight in the same way a habitable part of 
the home is, and theres no requirement for a non-habitable space to be watertight, whether 
its integral or not. HDI said if the water was entering the wall of the habitable areas, there 
would be a valid claim. However, theres no internal water ingress to the habitable areas.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her outcome. HDI asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
HDI has accepted that the issue meets the policy definition of physical damage. However, 
for the claim to be valid, the damage needs to have been caused by the builders failure to 
comply with Checkmates requirements.
Simply because the retaining wall meets the 100mm thickness requirement for a garage, 
and rainfall doesnt directly penetrate, it doesnt necessarily follow that the garage is 
weathertight if rainwater is entering the garage by other means.
Whilst the technical manual seeks to differentiate between weathertight and watertight in 
relation to an integral garage, I dont find its intentions to be sufficiently clear. Ultimately, 
the water is rainwater, and the ingress occurs when it rains or shortly afterwards. So, 
on balance, Im not persuaded the garage can reasonably be said to be weathertight.
HDIs surveyor noted the level of water ingress is the amount to be expected from a 100mm 
wall thickness specification. But given he concluded excessive water was finding a way into 
the cavity via the flat roof upstand/parapet detail, or the cavity tray or the DPM hadnt been 
installed correctly, its clear he considered there to be a construction defect.
Furthermore, irrespective of the water ingress, it follows that those potential defects would 
be a material change in the intended physical condition of the property. HDI hasnt said 
anything that leads me to believe those potential defects wouldnt be a breach of the 
requirements.
Its evident from the emails Ive seen, that HDI wrestled with whether the requirements have 
been breached. Its fair to say the matter isnt clear. But having considered the information 
presented, on balance, Im not persuaded HDI fairly declined Mr Rs claim. Im more 
persuaded he has a valid claim. 
In the circumstances, I consider HDI ought reasonably to cover the investigations, and if 
necessary, the repairs, its surveyor proposed.
Because Im not persuaded HDI has dealt with the claim fairly, and Ive seen this matter has 
caused Mr R a degree of inconvenience and upset, Im also awarding him £200 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is HDI Global Specialty SE should:
- cover the investigations, and if necessary, the repairs, its surveyor proposed (as 
detailed in the background section of this final decision); and- pay Mr R £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman