DRN-3146261
The complaint
Mr B has complained Metro Bank PLC wont refund him for transactions from his account he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr B lives abroad. He holds an account with Metro Bank. All the correspondence for this 
account was sent to a UK address Mr B has.
In August 2020 Mr B came over to the United Kingdom. An account he held with another 
bank (who Ill call H) had been blocked. H had asked Mr B to go to a branch to sort this out.
When he was here Mr B noted there was no correspondence at his UK address and he 
immediately suspected someone may have stolen the post. He also visited a branch of 
Metro and realised thered been considerable fraud on his current account from 31 July 2020 
to date.
H had identified fraud on Mr Bs account with them and arranged £12,400 to be refunded. 
Payments of £8,900 and £2,000 had been transferred firstly from Mr Bs savings account 
with H into his current account. Payments of £8,900 and £3,500 had then been made into 
Mr Bs Metro account. Numerous debit card, mobile payments and online card transactions 
had then been made from Mr Bs Metro account totalling more than £34,500. 
Mr B complained that more than £18,000 was missing from his account and asked Metro to 
refund him. They wouldnt agree to do so. Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Despite delays in getting all the information we required, our investigator was able to review 
phone calls provided by Metro for both August and September 2020. Our investigator noted 
that those in August didnt appear to match the voice of Mr B.
Mr B had also provided evidence from both H and his mobile phone provider. This confirmed 
his phone had been blocked and a SIM swap carried out.
Overall our investigator believed there was enough evidence to show Mr B hadnt authorised 
the transactions made from his account during the disputed period. She asked Metro to 
refund him. She noted that Metro had refunded disputed debit card transactions in March 
2021 totalling over £790. They subsequently refunded a further £5,471.72 on 29 June 2021 
but were unable to confirm what this related to.
Metro wouldnt refund the remainder of the money. Our investigator re-confirmed her 
findings and also asked Metro to add 8% simple interest a year to the money that hadnt 
been refunded, and to the refunded money for the period Mr B was without funds. As thered 
been delays in getting this sorted and plenty of opportunity for Metro to have resolved this 
complaint much earlier, she felt it was fair they paid Mr B £350 for the trouble caused.
Metro continued to believe theyd never had an opportunity to investigate this properly as 
Mr B had never been available for them to talk to him and get things sorted.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, an ombudsman has been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Bs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that specifically 
seems relevant in Mr Bs case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Metro and Mr B. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators views of 11 May and 20 October 2021 but feel 
no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. 
Im also not going to run through the disputed transactions. Metro hasnt been able to 
confirm what the refund of £5,471 refers to. However I think its clear whats still in dispute: 
all the payments made in a number of ways from 31 July to 28 August 2020. Mr B has 
already been refunded £13,400 from H for the original withdrawals from his accounts with H. 
That money did fund some of the disputed transactions from Mr Bs Metro account. I also 
note that £500 was transferred on 17 August into Mr Bs savings account with H so hes also 
had access to that money throughout as well.
I dont believe theres much room for discussion here. It seems clear to me that Mr B didnt 
authorise these transactions. I say this because:
Evidence from Mr Bs mobile phone provider dated 28 October 2020 (which I believe 
has been shared with Metro on numerous occasions) that Mr Bs phone was subject 
to a SIM swap. This explains how the fraud took place.
Mr B noted that there was no correspondence when he went to his UK address to 
check post that had been received.
A new debit card had been sent to Mr Bs UK residential address. Metro has provided 
contradictory evidence on this point and suggested no card prior to the card expiry in 
September 2020 had been issued. I think this is unlikely. Its clear cash machine 
transactions were carried out during the period of disputed transactions. Metro has 
even refunded these. Metro hasnt been able to show these could have been done 
without the card being present. Theres also clear evidence to show a new PIN was 
requested by the fraudster. I believe clear opportunity has been demonstrated to 
show how someone had enough information available to them to commit this fraud. Metros own evidence shows a new mobile device was registered for Mr Bs current 
account. This device was then used to make further transactions.
The voice on calls made to Metro in August 2020 dont sound as if they were Mr B.
Metro hasnt disputed that Mr B wasnt present in the UK at the time of the disputed 
transactions. I accept the detailed evidence Mr B has provided around this showing 
flights and other supporting information.
Metro has refunded all those transactions made using chip and PIN. Theyve also 
refunded more than £5,470 of other transactions.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied Mr B didnt authorise the disputed transactions, Metro will need to refund him 
appropriately. This is the total of the disputed transactions minus £13,400 (refunded by H), 
£500 (credited to Mr Bs savings account with H) and the two sets of refunds Metro has 
already made.
I know Mr B raised a number of other issues about how his complaint had been dealt with. I 
agree that Metro has hardly covered themselves in glory when I look at how they dealt with 
his complaint. Theyve had numerous opportunities to resolve this. It seems odd that they 
havent even though they seem to accept Mr B didnt make or authorise the disputed 
transactions.
Ive considered Metros concern they werent able to discuss what had happened with Mr B. 
Whilst I accept they have internal procedures when looking at fraud complaints, I draw their 
attention to the requirements under the PSRs that a customer should be promptly refunded. 
Perhaps process rather than customer service has rather got the better of them here. Like 
our investigator I think its fair and reasonable that Metro pay Mr B £350 for the trouble 
caused.
It's not this services role to penalise businesses so it would not be fair to ask them to pay 
more.
8% simple interest a year will need to be added to the money for the period Mr B was 
without these funds from the date of the original disputed transactions until 1 March 2021, 
29 June 2021 or the date of settlement, as applicable.
Mr B has raised his concerns about his account being currently blocked by Metro. I suspect 
they will want to speak with him to ensure they are removing blocks appropriately. I dont see 
anything wrong with that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund the disputed transactions between 31 July and 28 August 2020 minus those 
refunds or other credits referred to above;
Add 8% simple interest a year for the period Mr B was without these funds from the 
date of the original disputed transactions until 1 March 2021, 29 June 2021 or the 
date of settlement, as applicable; and
Pay Mr B £350 for the trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman