DRN-4346331
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) are unfairly asking them 
to pay a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they said they hadnt 
authorised them to make.
What happened
In 2022 WFAC asked Mrs L to pay their fee after thered been a successful mis-sold PPI 
complaint made about their mortgage account. Mrs L said neither she nor Mr L had signed 
any documents authorising WFAC to act on their behalf in pursuance of a mis-sold PPI 
complaint.  Mrs L complained to WFAC.
WFAC said Mr L and Mrs L had instructed them to act on their behalf from 2017 to pursue 
mis-sold PPI complaints. And theyd submitted letters of authority (LoA) to their lenders. 
WFAC said as PPI had been mis-sold for their mortgage account and compensation had 
been paid their fee was justified. But accepted that as the PPI was in Mr Ls name only, they 
shouldnt have asked Mrs L to pay their fee.
Mr L and Mrs L said they hadnt signed anything instructing WFAC to act for them, and that 
the documents had been fabricated. They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said that WFAC had submitted Mr L and Mrs Ls mis-sold PPI claim(s) to 
their lenders. And as the mortgage PPI claim was successful WFACs fee was justified.
Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Im only considering whether I think Mr L and Mrs L had asked 
WFAC to submit a mis-sold PPI complaint to their mortgage lender that justified their fee. 
WFAC has said  they shouldnt have asked Mrs L to pay their fee as the successful mis-sold 
PPI complaint was for PPI in Mr Ls name only. As this is subject to another complaint that 
has been brought to us,  I wont comment further about this.
Mr L and Mrs L have questioned the signatures theyve been shown on the authorisation 
forms provided by WFAC and said WFAC has in some way falsified these. But its not my 
role to carry out a forensic analysis of the signatures. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both 
sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. 
We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different 
version of events as is the case here, I base my decision on what I think most likely 
happened.
So,  in reaching my decision Ive determined, on balance, whether Mr L and Mrs L had 
authorised WFAC to act for them in making mis-sold PPI complaints. Ive also considered 
whether WFAC has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr L and Mrs L.
WFACs records show a letter of engagement (LoE) dated June 2016 for a Mr L and Mrs L. 
The LoE has the same address and personal details as later LoAs but the first letter of      
Mr Ls name is different. And Mrs L was the named as the policy holder with Mr L as the 
additional policy holder. 
I can see from WFACs records that in early August 2017, Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage lender 
didnt accept the LoE as it wasnt considered valid. I can see a LoA was completed a few 
days later, dated 10 August 2017. And showed Mr L as the policy holder, with the corrected 
first name, and Mrs L as the additional policy holder. The LoA had the same address and 
other personal details as the LoE and I can see it was submitted to Mr L and Mrs Ls 
mortgage lender, 16 August 2017. In response the mortgage lender confirmed in September 
2019 that theyd found there was a PPI policy for Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage account. This 
didnt automatically mean that PPI had been mis-sold as the mortgage lender needed to 
investigate Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint that it had been.
The evidence shows WFAC started the mis-sold PPI claim process by submitting Mr L and 
Mrs Ls complaint and continued to engage with their mortgage lender through the process. 
This then led to the offer of compensation to Mr L in June 2022, as he was the sole PPI 
policy holder. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr L and Mrs L authorised WFAC to act on their 
behalf in the pursuance of a mis-sold PPI complaint. I think its reasonable for WFAC to 
accept the signatures on the LoAs were those of Mr L and Mrs L as theyd submitted Mr L 
and Mrs Ls mis-sold PPI complaint to their mortgage lender. And the mortgage lender 
accepted these as valid LoAs. Given the lender had rejected the previous LoE, I think its 
more likely than not, that the lender would have raised a concern if they felt the signature 
was different to the one theyd on record. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr L and Mrs L were pursuing any mis-sold PPI complaints 
direct with their lenders themselves. I can see their mortgage lender sent WFAC a copy of 
their offer letter dated June 2022, that referred to Mr L as our mutual customer this 
persuades me that Mr L and Mrs L werent dealing with these claims themselves. And that 
their mortgage lender considered WFAC as their authorised representative.
The agreement Mr L and Mrs L had with WFAC from August 2017 was on a No win No fee 
basis. This means WFAC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the 
amount of work they actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, WFACs fee may be more or less than the 
value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement. And as the mis-sold PPI claim was successful I dont think its unreasonable for 
WFAC to ask Mr L to pay their fee.
Mr L and Mrs L have also said they hadnt heard anything from WFAC since 2016. I can see 
WFACs records show regular six-monthly updates were sent to Mr L and Mrs L about their 
claim(s). This satisfied the Claims Management Conduct of Business sourcebook (CMCOB):
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And as outlined above, a LoA was completed and signed in early August 2017. Another although dated November 2020, I can see was received by WFAC in January 2020, and 
referred to in their records in November 2019, (I take from this the date should have read 
November 2019). And this with a PPI questionnaire was sent by WFAC to Mr L and Mrs Ls 
mortgage lender in March 2020 as a formal letter of complaint. The PPI questionnaire 
contained further information in support of Mr L and Mrs Ls claim, including the purpose of 
the loan and specific employment details.  
I understand Mr L and Mrs L separated and now live at different addresses, and that WFAC 
wasnt updated about these changes until Mrs L was asked to pay their fee. But from the 
evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that WFAC from 2017, had sought required information and 
evidence from Mr L and Mrs L in support of their claim and sought to keep them updated 
about it. 
I know Mr L and Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision but overall, Im satisfied that its 
most likely that WFAC were authorised by Mr L and Mrs L to act for them in making a mis-
sold PPI complaint. And as this claim was successful WFACs fee is justified. I also think 
WFAC complied with CMCOB in providing updates about Mr L and Mrs Ls claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman