DRN-3708913
The complaint
Mrs W complains about ETU Forsikring A/S Limited (ETU) declining a claim under her pet 
insurance policy. 
References to ETU include their agents who administer the policy and handle claims.
Mrs W was supported by a representative when making her complaint. References to Mrs W 
include her representative.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs Ws puppy swallowed some grapes. As grapes are harmful to dogs, 
Mrs W took the puppy to a vet. The vet advised urgent treatment was needed, so Mrs W 
sought emergency out-of-hours treatment at a surgery. The cost of the treatment came to 
£337.79. Mrs W made a claim for the cost, described as Toxin ingestion  grapes. But ETU 
declined to pay for four items on the claim (totalling £246.55) as they said they werent 
covered under the policy. 
The week after the incident, the puppy swallowed a bouncy ball, which became lodged in its 
intestine. Surgery was required to remove it and a second claim (referring to foreign body) 
was made for the cost of treatment, totalling £1,810. But ETU declined the claim, referring to 
a policy exclusion for more than one claim for ingestion of a foreign body [in] any one period 
of insurance. They said the treatments for ingesting of grapes and the bouncy ball were two 
claims for ingestion of a foreign body.
Mrs W complained to ETU, but they didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response they 
said the decline of the second claim was because it was the second claim for dietary 
indiscretion within the policy year (Mrs Ws policy ran from August 2020 to August 2021). 
Having reviewed the complaint, ETU confirmed their decision to decline the second claim.
Mrs W then complained to this service. The main part of her complaint was that ETU hadnt 
applied the policy fairly in declining the second claim for the surgery to remove the bouncy 
ball. She didnt think the first incident involved ingestion of a foreign body (as the second 
had done). Rather, it was for the ingestion of a poisonous food (not a foreign body, which 
she thought was a non-edible object). She wanted ETU to cover the second claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint, concluding ETU didnt need to take any 
action. She thought the policy terms were clear in excluding cover for more than one incident 
of ingestion of a foreign body in a policy year. While the policy didnt define foreign body, the 
investigator thought (in the context of a pet insurance policy) the term could reasonably be 
interpreted to include an object that originated outside the puppys body it wasnt meant to 
ingest (including food it wasnt supposed to eat). So, both the grapes and the bouncy ball 
could be considered foreign bodies and ETU had applied fairly the exclusion for a second 
claim for ingestion of a foreign body (the bouncy ball).
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, Mrs W raised several points. Firstly, she disagreed with the 
investigator on what would reasonably be meant by the term foreign body (as the policy 
didnt define the term). She provided examples of the terms meaning from publicly available 
sources, saying none included reference to the ingestion of toxins or poison (or could be 
inferred to include such reference). Secondly, she thought ETU had acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in not including a definition of the term in the policy. 
In my findings I concluded it wasnt reasonable to treat the ingestion of the grapes as the first 
incident involving the ingestion of a foreign body. But I thought the second incident would 
reasonably fall under that description.
From that, I concluded ETU didnt act fairly or reasonably in treating the second claim as a 
second incident of ingestion of a foreign body. So, they acted unfairly in applying the 
exclusion to decline the claim. 
To put things right, I thought ETU should assess the second claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, without the exclusion. If they accepted the claim, given 
the length of time since the claim was declined (and Mrs W has paid the cost of treatment), 
then ETU should add interest to the sum to settle the claim.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether ETU has acted fairly towards Mrs W.
 
The main issue in Mrs Ws complaint is whether ETU fairly applied the exclusion in the policy 
for a second incident of ingestion of a foreign body in any one policy year. Mrs W says it 
wasnt, given the absence of a policy definition of foreign body. She also says the terms 
shouldnt reasonably be held to include ingestion of a poison or toxin. ETU say the policy is 
clear and that there were two (what they describe as) dietary indiscretions.
 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence provided. 
What isnt in doubt is the puppy swallowed two things (the grapes and the bouncy ball) in 
two separate incidents, a week apart. Both incidents required treatment by a vet. The first 
(the swallowing of the grapes) required the puppy to be made to vomit and for medication to 
be administered. The second (the swallowing of the bouncy ball) involved the need for 
surgery (and associated treatment) to remove the bouncy ball from the dogs intestine. Both 
incidents took place during the same year of cover.
So, the issue comes down to whether ETU acted fairly in treating both claims as involving 
ingestion of a foreign body and then applying the policy exclusion for more than one claim 
in any one period of insurance to decline the second claim. The relevant policy exclusion 
applied by ETU to decline the claim is set out in Section 1A  Veterinary Fees under a 
heading What You are Not Covered for which includes the following:
27. More than one claim for ingestion of a foreign body [in] any one Period of Insurance.
As its not disputed the puppy swallowed (ingested) two separate things within the same 
period of insurance, the key issue is whether both can reasonably be held to fall under the 
term of foreign body. As the claim was declined by ETU based on the exclusion, then the 
onus is on them to show it was reasonable to apply the exclusion. However, the term foreign 
body isnt defined in the policy, leaving it down to interpretation and what would be 
considered reasonable.ETU havent provided any view on what they consider to be a foreign body So Ive 
considered the definitions Mrs W has provided, drawn from publicly available sources, 
including dictionaries. Looking at the definitions provided, while the precise wordings differ, 
all refer to an object (or entity) that has entered the body by accident or design (and 
should not be there). These are very broad definitions that could apply to a very large 
number of things, including non-food items (such as a bouncy ball) or food items (whether 
they are harmful or not). However, as the case involves a claim under pet insurance policy, I 
think its reasonable to think about the context when considering what could reasonably be 
held to be a foreign body. 
Looking specifically at publicly available sources on ingestion of foreign bodies in dogs, 
many references can be found. For example, a MedVet article1 refers to:
Obstructive stomach or intestinal foreign bodies (FB) occur when a pet eats a non-
food foreign object and it cannot pass through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
Similarly, the American College of Veterinary Surgeons2 states:
Foreign bodies occur when pets consume items that will not readily pass through 
their gastrointestinal tract. These items may be strings, a pets or childs toyor any 
other item that fails to pass.
Given the definitions and sources, I think it reasonable to conclude that non-food items or 
objects would fall under the definition. So, I think swallowing a bouncy ball would reasonably 
be the ingestion of a foreign body. Thats also supported by the description of foreign body 
on the claim form. 
However, I dont think, on balance, food items should be included. Partly thats from the 
sources and references Ive seen (including those above). Also, food items would be able to 
pass through the intestinal tract, so wouldnt need surgical removal. I think this would also 
still apply to food items that happen to be harmful to pets (which include grapes in dogs). Ive 
also noted the first claim form doesnt refer to foreign body  it refers to Toxic ingestion  
grapes. Taking all these points together, Im not persuaded it was reasonable to treat the 
ingestion of the grapes as the first incident involving the ingestion of a foreign body 
(whereas I think the second incident would reasonably fall under that description).
It follows from this conclusion that ETU didnt act fairly or reasonably in treating the second 
claim as a second incident of ingestion of a foreign body. So, Ive concluded they acted 
unfairly in applying the exclusion to decline the claim.
 
To put things right, ETU should assess the second claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, without the exclusion. If they accept the claim, given the length of 
time since the claim was declined (and Mrs W has paid the cost of treatment), then ETU 
should add interest to the sum to settle the claim (taking account of any policy excess that 
would apply) at a rate of 8% simple from the date Mrs W made the claim to the date ETU 
settle the claim.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I 
intend to require ETU Forsikring A/S Limited to:
1 Gastrointestinal Foreign Bodies (FB) in dogs and cats
2 Small Animal Topics  Gastrointestinal Foreign Bodiesassess the second claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
without the exclusion
If they accept the claim, given the length of time since the claim was declined (and if Mrs W 
has paid the cost of treatment), then ETU should add interest to the sum to settle the claim 
(taking account of any policy excess that would apply) at a rate of 8% simple from the date 
Mrs W made the claim to the date ETU settle the claim.
Mrs W responded to say that, unless there were any further representations or points raised 
by ETU, she had nothing further to add.
ETU didnt respond by the date requested for comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether ETU have acted fairly towards Mrs W.
ETU havent responded to make any comments on the provisional decision. Mrs W said she 
had nothing further to add unless ETU made any further representations or points. So, my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I require 
ETU Forsikring A/S Limited to:
assess the second claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
without the exclusion
If they accept the claim, given the length of time since the claim was declined (and if Mrs W 
has paid the cost of treatment), then ETU should add interest to the sum to settle the claim 
(taking account of any policy excess that would apply) at a rate of 8% simple from the date 
Mrs W made the claim to the date ETU settle the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022. 
Paul King
Ombudsman