DRN-4289376
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) provided poor customer service during a telephone 
conversation.
What happened
Mr C says he telephoned Lloyds in February 2023 after he had received a text message 
informing him his bank account was going into overdraft. Mr C says in that call he queried 
why his account was going overdrawn and says that all payments should be taken from his 
account immediately. Mr C says Lloyds agent then unfairly accused him of raising his voice 
and then discontinued the call. Mr C says he was unhappy with the way he was treated and 
raised a complaint with Lloyds who initially offered him a modest amount of compensation 
which he refused. 
Mr C says he suffers from various health issues, and this is known by Lloyds and wants an 
apology and suitable recompense from them, for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused. 
Lloyds says it acted correctly when it sent the text to Mr C when his bank account was going 
into overdraft, and it had explained to him why this had happened due to a direct debit 
payment being collected that day. Lloyds says it listened to the telephone call recording and 
felt its agent was polite and professional and only ended the call as it was the only option 
left, having previously told Mr C this would happen if he continued to be aggressive and 
rude. Lloyds says the initial offer of compensation has since been withdrawn.
Mr C wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Lloyds acted reasonably when it sent the text message to Mr C regarding the 
overdrawn position on his bank account and had subsequently correctly explained to him 
why the direct debit had been presented that day. 
The investigator says she listened to the phone call recording but didnt feel the Lloyds agent 
acted unfairly when the call was ended, as she had made it apparent if Mr C continued to 
speak in the same manner she would end the call. The investigator didnt feel Lloyds needed 
to do anything further here. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr C to telephone Lloyds regarding a transaction 
on his bank account, to then have the call terminated when he didnt feel he had done 
anything wrong. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Lloyds acted unreasonably 
when its agent ended the phone call when she did. 
While Mr C has raised the issue concerning why his bank account was going into an 
overdraft, Im satisfied this point has been explained fully by Lloyds and was accepted by Mr 
C in his follow up call on 13 February 2023. Mr Cs complaint here centres around the fact 
when he initially telephoned Lloyds on 13 February 2023 the agent he spoke to unfairly 
accused him of raising his voice and abruptly ended the phone call. Mr C maintains it was 
that member of staff who was rude and not him. 
I have listened to that call recording and its fair to say that Mr C in all probability, already felt  
frustrated about the fact his bank account was going into overdraft when he believed it 
shouldnt. While I understand Mr C didnt feel his tone was aggressive, it had been taken that 
way by the Lloyds agent at the time and she told him so, and when Mr C continued in the 
same manner the agent ended the call. So, while Mr C may not have felt his tone and 
manner was aggressive and he has previously explained he suffers with various health 
issues and is on strong medication which must be difficult for him, even taking this into 
account and having listened to the call myself, I can understand why perhaps the agent 
reacted in the way she did. 
Its worth saying here while perhaps the agent could have reminded Mr C again before 
ending the call, most banks will tell its employees if they feel threatened in any way, they do 
not have to continue those calls. So here, while it may not have been Mr Cs intention to 
come across in this manner, thats how it was interpreted by the Lloyds agent and its not for 
me to tell Lloyds what standards its employees must accept  after all thats a business 
decision for it to make. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman