DRN-1317105
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have not returned the full value of funds she 
sent to another Barclays customer in error. 
What happened
Mrs O holds a bank account with Barclays and in late January 2019 she made a payment of 
£30,000 intended for her sons Barclays account. Mrs O accidentally entered one of the 
account digits incorrectly and the funds were transferred to a different Barclays account.
Mrs O became aware of her error in early February 2019 and notified Barclays. It looked to 
retrieve the funds and transferred Mrs O £29,201.12 which it said was the total of the 
available funds in the account. 
Mrs O complained to Barclays that this left her £798.88 short of the total value she had 
transferred. 
Barclays said that it had done all it could to retrieve the funds as soon as Mrs O had made it 
aware of her error. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. It said claiming back lost funds is never 
guaranteed, and it has recovered all of the funds it was able to. Barclays also suggested  
Mrs O may wish to contact Action Fraud to pursue the matter further.
Mrs O didnt accept Barclays response and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
stated that had Barclays made the error she would have considered them liable for the full 
amount  but because this was Mrs Os error, she felt Barclays had done all it could to 
recover the funds.
Mrs O disagreed with our investigator. She said, amongst other points, that Barclays 
acknowledged the mistake by paying her back part of the money  and therefore there is no 
reason the full amount should not be repaid. Mrs O also says the unintended recipient was a 
Barclays customer and therefore it had their details and the knowledge to pursue their 
customer, and that it has insurance in place to cover these types of situations.
Mrs O asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Barclays to do anything more. Ill explain why. Ive checked Barclays terms and conditions to see what it would reasonably be expected to 
do when situations like this arise. Ive also considered what Mrs O was required to do in 
order to ensure the transfer happened correctly. 
Under the section titled Making payments out of your account it states:
Give us the information we need  for payments to accounts in the UK thats the 
account number and sort code or, where its available, a mobile number in place of 
these details, and any other information we ask for (we need extra information for 
international payments  see international payments in this section)
 
Under the section titled If you have a loss you want to claim back from us it states:
If you have any loss or damage because of something we have done or not done, you will 
generally be able to claim back the loss from us. However, there are exceptions. You cannot 
claim back if:
Any of the details you gave us were wrong or insufficient (this would include you 
giving us the wrong account number, for example)"
 
I think the terms are clear in explaining what information Mrs O needed to provide Barclays 
in order to make the transfer. And I also think the terms are clear with regards to claiming 
back any lost funds. The terms clearly state that giving a wrong account number means that 
Barclays does not have a requirement to recover the funds  although I can see in this case 
it has recovered the majority of funds for Mrs O.
As soon as Mrs O notified Barclays of her error it investigated the details and put a hold on 
the available funds that were in the wrong account. At this time the available funds were 
£29,201.12. Barclays then returned the available funds to Mrs O once it had completed its 
investigations. This seems reasonable to me.
Ive considered Mrs Os comments about Barclays having insurance in place to cover these 
situations but as I think Barclays has acted in line with the account terms and conditions, I 
cant fairly or reasonably require it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman