DRN-3375877
The complaint
Mr M complains about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos) refusal to write-off a debt, and then close the account which relates to 
this debt.
What happened
Mr M is represented in his complaint by his sister. I will refer to Mr Ms sister as Mrs A. In this 
decision I have, at times, referred to things Mr M has told us or information he has provided, 
even where it was Mrs A who has done this on his behalf. I have written the decision like this 
for ease of reading. 
In December 2015 Mr M opened an account with Argos. The account was opened in person 
in a store. At this time Mr M was married to his ex-wife, who I will call Mrs M. Mr M tells us 
Mrs M was with him in the store when he opened the account.
Mr M complains that Mrs M was controlling and, in particular, she forced him to enter into 
this finance agreement with Argos. He suggests that Mrs M wanted him to improve his credit 
rating by taking out new credit. According to him she thought if he had a good credit rating 
this would benefit her immigration application. 
Further, Mr M tells us he has a disability. This disability he says makes it difficult for him to 
make choices or understand situations. He suggests his disability and the impact it has on 
him would have been apparent when he went to open the account in store. Mr M also 
indicates that his disability impacted his cognitive abilities to such an extent that he lacked 
mental capacity at the time he made the agreement.
Once the account was opened Mr M says he had no further access to this account, only Mrs 
M did. As a result, Mr M tells us that he did not know what purchases Mrs M made using the 
account during their marriage.
According to Mr M, he left his relationship with Mrs M in December 2019. At that point Mrs A 
started supporting him. It was also at this point he says that he found out that Mrs M had, 
racked up huge bills without my knowledge.
In particular, between October 2019 and November 2019 four purchases were made on his 
Argos account. Although we have only been told about the specifics of three of the 
purchases. That is that a mobile phone, a tablet, and a camera were all purchased using the 
account. It is Mr Ms position that he has none of these items and never did, Mrs M had them 
all.
Mr M and Mrs A called Argos in January 2020. It appears that they both spoke to Argos, 
however it was Mrs A who explained to Argos, amongst other things, that Mr M did not know 
what purchases had been made using the account. She also told Argos about Mr Ms 
disability. Mr M asked Argos to change the address on the account from his marital address 
to his current address. He also asked it to issue him with a card for the account as he said 
he did not have one and had never had one. Mr M also indicated that the police were looking 
into his relationship with Mrs M. In the meantime, Mr M wanted Argos to write-off the debt on 
the account and close it.
Argos responded to say that it agreed that during the call that I have mentioned above, the 
account address was changed from the address that appeared to be Mr Ms marital address, 
to his current address. Also, it says a new card for the account was issued as Mr M said he 
did not have one. Added to which, also in that call, according to it, Mr M agreed he had 
purchased the items bought in November 2019 although he did not recognise the purchases 
made in October 2019. Argos pointed out that to have made the November purchases he 
had to have had access to the card linked to the account, both to make the purchases online 
and collect the goods from the store. Moreover, it suggested he told it on the call that he had 
the phone in his possession. Argos didnt agree it had done anything wrong and declined to 
write-off the debt or close the account.
Dissatisfied Mr M complained to our service.
Once the complaint was with us, Mr M sent us more information about his disability. This 
information - a very detailed report from a specialist medical practitioner was dated May 
2020. It appears that Mr M was being prosecuted by the police for controlling behaviour 
towards Mrs M and the report had been commissioned in the light of that court action.
In addition, Mr M explained that he has been off sick from work since February 2020.  
We asked Mr M if there was any power of attorney in place for him. At first, we received no 
response to this question. But later on, Mrs A told us there was no power of attorney in place 
for Mr M.
Mrs A provided further information about how the account had been managed, she 
explained Mr M had set up a direct debit to make repayments to Argos from an account he 
had with a third party. But it was Mr Ms former brother-in-law who had helped Mr M to do 
this. Further, she explained Mr M would not have understood the implications of this 
because he [Mr M] does not understand the commitments in a credit agreement.
Meanwhile, Argos told us about a phone call with Mr M in June 2020. It said in that call Mr M 
told it that he had opened the account so that his ex-wife could buy things. But it also said it 
no longer had a recording of the phone call.  It does not seem that Argos is seeking to rely 
on this call any longer.
Argos also let us know that it had asked Mr M to supply it with medical information to support 
what he had told it about his disability, but it had not received this information. We sent the 
medical report to it and asked if it was prepared to change its decision it declined to do so. 
Mrs A added that it was not surprising, in the context, that Mr M told Argos he opened the 
account for his wife to buy her things because if one is in a controlled relationship, you will 
do as you are told, which is exactly what [Mr M] done.
Mrs A told us that Mr M is now homeless and having financial difficulties. She also 
expressed her dissatisfaction and Mr Ms about how long this service had taken to deal with 
Mr Ms complaint. She also let us know both she and her young child had been ill, and this 
had impacted on the amount of help she was able to give to Mr M in relation to this 
complaint.
I took a look at Mr Ms complaint and I issued a provisional decision. I set out below what I 
said in that provisional decision about what Id decided and why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I regret to hear about Mr Ms and Mrs As dissatisfaction with our service. I also regret to 
hear about her ill health and that of her child. I appreciate that these health issues have 
made things tough for her and limited the support she is able to give to Mr M in dealing with 
his complaint.
Economic abuse
Economic abuse can include exploiting a persons financial resources against their will. If Mr 
M had been subjected to economic abuse when he opened and maintained the account, I 
would say it was fair and reasonable to tell Argos that it must stop pursuing Mr M for the debt 
and to close the account.
As I have already mentioned Mr M suggests Mrs M forced him to take out the finance 
agreement he has with Argos. However, the information that he sent us to support this, 
instead showed he was being prosecuted for controlling behaviour towards Mrs M, which, on 
the face of it, undermines his version of events.
We have asked for further information about the court case, in particular why it came about 
in the first place, what happened next with the court case, what the final outcome was. Mrs A 
suggests the case was dropped as the prosecution service realised that it was Mr M not Mrs 
M who was being controlled. But we have not been provided with anything from anyone 
involved professionally in the court proceedings to confirm this. Rather, as I have already 
mentioned, the information we have seen about the court case is inconsistent with what Mr 
M and Mrs A have told us.
I appreciate that controlling abusive behaviour within a relationship can and does often 
happen in a very hidden way. As a result, it can be hard to show it has been going on. But I 
cant disregard the evidence about the court case in the circumstances. I can see at one 
point Mr M had a solicitor acting for him so he had access to a third party who could support 
his version of events and tell us potentially about the history of the court case. But we have 
received no further supporting information. And I am satisfied, that even in the particularly 
difficult wider circumstances of this complaint, Mr M has had a fair opportunity to provide this 
information if he had it, or to obtain it, if not.
Further, Mr M also tells us that he had no access to the account and did not know what was 
being bought using the account. It can be a hallmark of a relationship where there is 
economic abuse that the controlling party withholds financial information or makes sure only 
they have access to it.
But Mr M has also told us he set up a direct debit from his account with a third party, to make 
repayments to the account he had with Argos. It is not clear why Mr M might not have had 
access to this information from his own third party account after he set up the direct debits.
So, it is not clear why he would not have known what was being spent on the Argos account. 
All he would have had to do was look at the statements he got from his third party account, 
even if he did not have access to the statements from the Argos account. Although as far as 
I am aware the only purchases ever made on the Argos account were the purchases made 
in October and November 2019.
Further, it appears that the statements for the Argos account went to his home address and 
the phone number associated with the account was his phone number. On the surface, it 
would seem that Mr M would have access to mail that came to his home address and calls 
received on his mobile phone. He has not told us why he did not. Alternatively, since his 
phone number was associated with the Argos account he could also have rung Argos from 
that number to help authenticate himself and speak to Argos about the account. I accept if 
no purchases were made on the account until October 2019 Mr M might not have thought there was any need to contact Argos. But that is not the same as being prevented from 
contacting it for lack of access to his account.
All of the above does not paint a picture of a person who had no access to the account.
I recognise that Mr M told Argos in January 2020 that he did not have a card for the account 
and never had. That might be so, however, even if it were, that by itself does not persuade 
me that Mr M had no access to the account for the reasons he suggests.
I also recognise that Mr M suggests he did not have the mental capacity to understand the 
finance agreement, and I will look at mental capacity later. Here I am talking about actual 
physical access to information.
Mr M explains that Mrs M wanted him to boost his credit rating by taking out new credit. Her 
motivation he tells us is that she thought if he had a good credit rating this would improve her 
chances of succeeding in her immigration application. But I have not been provided with any 
persuasive information to show that Mrs M was going through an immigration process, I 
appreciate this information would be hard for Mr M to provide given that the relationship 
broke down and they are divorced. But neither have I been sent any more generally 
available information to show that the credit rating of a spouse can have a positive impact on 
the immigration application of the applicant.
For all these reasons I have not been persuaded by what Mr M has said about this complaint 
point.
Mental Capacity and Vulnerability
Lack of mental capacity is a medical diagnosis. Nothing I have seen suggests to me that Mr 
M has been diagnosed as lacking mental capacity. It follows I am not satisfied that Mr M 
does lack mental capacity or did during the relevant period. I would also add if Mr M did lack 
mental capacity and since there is no power of attorney in place, we would not be able to 
look at this complaint because Mr M would not be able to bring a complaint on his own 
behalf nor consent to Mrs A acting as his representative.
A vulnerable consumer is a person, who due to their individual circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm. In particular, in this context, when a business with whom they transact 
is not acting with appropriate levels of care.
The medical information I have received satisfies me that Mr M is a vulnerable consumer by 
reason of his disability. It also satisfied me that it is likely that Mr M was vulnerable by reason 
of his disability when he took out the finance agreement in 2015. I say this because the 
medical information suggests Mr M has had a life-long disability albeit it had not been 
formally investigated and diagnosed until 2020. Further, nothing in the medical information 
suggests that Mr Ms cognitive abilities have degenerated between when he opened the 
account and when the he was examined in May 2020.
The medical information indicates, amongst other things, that Mr M has impaired cognitive 
function, by reason of his disability. In particular, this will impact on Mr Ms ability to 
understand information and retain it. Mr M appears to have very specific needs in relation to 
how information needs to be presented to him in order for him to follow it. Further a busy 
environment, such as a store for instance, is likely to negatively impact on his cognitive 
function.
In recent years there has been a greater focus on vulnerable consumers and their needs. 
However, it has always been the case, including in 2015 when Mr M opened the account, 
that businesses had to take steps to make sure that their customers understood the nature 
of the obligations they were entering into and had to tailor their approach so that this met the 
needs of the customer. This is in recognition of the significant impact discretionary financial 
obligations, such as the finance agreement in this complaint, can have on customers.Further, based on the medical information I have seen I think it would have been obvious to 
whoever opened the account for Mr M that he was vulnerable. Argos has not been able to 
provide any information about the account opening process in this particular instance. I dont 
find it surprising given this happened in 2015, and financial institutions are not required to 
keep records of transactions indefinitely. In the circumstances, I have seen nothing to show 
that it recognised and met his communication needs for instance, that it took him to a quiet 
space or gave him the extra time the medical evidence suggests he needs to process the 
information he was given. Or that it put any notes on his account mentioning his 
communication needs.
It would be inappropriate and indeed discriminatory to refuse to supply finance to customers 
simply because they have a disability that impairs their cognitive function or because they 
appear to have impaired cognitive function. So, I am not suggesting Argos should not have 
given Mr M finance because his cognitive function was impaired, and this was likely to have 
been obvious.
I accept it is likely that Mrs M was present when the account was opened and there is no 
suggestion she is vulnerable. But the presence of Mrs M does not mean necessarily that Mr 
M had someone with him to support him and help him understand the agreement. For 
example, it is not even clear if Mrs M speaks English.
For all of these reasons, the circumstances, I am not satisfied that Argos took sufficient 
steps in this individual instance to assist Mr M as a vulnerable consumer to understand the 
nature of the finance agreement he was entering into
Further, I am not satisfied that Mr M did ultimately have the benefit of the items that were 
purchased in October 2019 and November 2019. I think it is significant that these items were 
purchased in the final days of his marriage, normally a very distressing time for both parties 
to the marriage. The medical information suggests Mr M had difficulty with dealing with more 
than one thing at a time and with organising his thoughts. I find it unlikely in the 
circumstances, with all of this going on, Mr M would have had the mental resources to go out 
and buy expensive consumer goods, even if he was the one who collected the items in 
November 2019, which Mr M appears to dispute in any event.
For the reasons I have given in the very particular circumstances of this complaint, I am 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to require Argos to write-off the debt and close the 
account. It must also stop pursuing Mr M for the debt. I am also satisfied that it ought to 
remove any information it has asked the credit reference agencies to register on Mr Ms 
credit file about this account.
Financial difficulties
Mr Ms financial circumstances have changed considerably since 2015 from what he has told 
us. It appears he would struggle to make repayments towards this finance agreement in his 
current circumstances. That said, I dont think I can look any further at this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint because it appears to be a new issue which was not raised with Argos or 
investigated in its final response or investigated by us. It follows I cant look at this point, any 
further, in this complaint.
Im not saying Mr M can take this matter no further but rather that I dont have the power to 
look at it any more here.
However, since I am asking Argos to write-off the debt, treat the account as settled and stop 
pursuing him for the debt this might well remove any further future financial difficulties Mr M 
might have experienced if Argos had continued to pursue him for the debt.
As a result of the above my provisional decision was:
My provisional decision is that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos 
Financial Services must:End the agreement with nothing further owed by Mr M, specifically it must write-off 
the balance and stop pursuing Mr M for payment and close the account.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove all reference to the agreement from Mr 
Ms credit file.
I invited both Mr M and Argos to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do 
that. As far as I am aware we have received no response from Mr M. Whereas Argos 
responded to say it accepted the findings of the provisional decision. It added for 
completeness that given Mr Ms vulnerability Mr M might like to think about putting a notice 
of correction on his credit file to avoid a similar situation to this current situation, arising in 
future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Argos for its response to the provisional decision. Ive reviewed the complete file 
again and revisited my provisional decision.
Ive not been told that we have received any response from Mr M (as I have already 
mentioned) and Argos accepts the findings of my provisional decision. It follows that in this 
final decision I have come to the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision.
As to Argoss suggestion about a notice of correction that is a matter entirely for Mr M if he 
decides he wants to do this. If he does then he would need to contact the credit reference 
agencies directly about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos 
Financial Services must:
End the agreement with nothing further owed by Mr M, specifically it must write-off 
the balance and stop pursuing Mr M for payment and close the account.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove all reference to the agreement from Mr 
Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman