DRN-4190477
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took over a month to carry out 
an instruction to close their currency account.
What happened
Mrs K says following Barclays reinstatement of her and her husbands US dollar account, in 
late November 2022 she gave instructions to close this account and transfer the funds to her 
and her husbands joint sterling account. Although a deal was agreed at that time the 
transfer never happened and so Mrs K says she made other phone calls in November and 
December 2022 but again the closure of her US dollar account didnt happen, and the 
transfer failed to materialise. 
Mrs K says without prior notice, finally the transfer of the US dollars into sterling was made 
into their joint sterling bank account on 29 December 2022, over a month from her original 
instructions. Mrs K says Barclays identified the funds on her joint account bank statement in 
her sole name, not the joint names and at no point contacted her that this was being done or 
what the rate of exchange was. 
Mrs K says she had intended to deposit the funds in late November 2022 into Premium 
Savings bonds for her and her husband and her daughter and missed the draw for that 
month as a result, additionally Mrs K says she was also looking to put part of those funds 
into a bond with another provider but by the time the US dollar transfer was completed, the 
opportunity wasnt any longer available. Mrs K wants Barclays to provide a fuller explanation 
why the delay occurred and doesnt feel the level of compensation of £150 offered by 
Barclays goes far enough.  
Barclays accepts it made mistakes in dealing with the closure of Mr Ks and Mrs Ks US 
dollar bank account and it should have dealt with this much sooner. Barclays says the 
reason for the delay was due to a restricting marker still being applied to the US dollar 
account which should have been removed after it was reactivated in October 2022 and have 
apologised for that and provided feedback to those concerned. Barclays says because the 
sterling amount Mr K and Mrs K received was higher than the previous amounted quoted, 
there was no need to make up for any loss. 
Barclays have recognised the time it took to put matters right and have paid Mr K and Mrs K 
£150 by way of apology. 
Mr K and Mrs K werent happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says given the original exchange rate Mrs K  was offered by Barclays in late 
November 2022, compared to the exchange rate her and her husband finally received at the 
end of December 2022 was greater by over £900, he couldnt see any financial loss was 
experienced. 
The investigator felt from the transactions passing through Mr K s and Mrs Ks sterling bank 
account after the US dollar transfer had been completed, there was no evidence to suggest 
the investment into other sources was time critical as transfers werent initiated until late 
January 2023 and February 2023 - so he couldnt safely say there was much lost income. 
The investigator felt Barclays had explained the reason for the delays were more than likely 
because it had failed to remove a restrictive marker from the US dollar bank account when it 
was reactivated in mid-October 2022, and it accepted that was a mistake and apologised for 
that. The investigator didnt doubt this would have caused inconvenience and frustration 
however, he hadnt seen anything to suggest the funds were needed urgently or were time 
critical. 
The investigator felt given there was no other financial loss here the £150 paid by Barclays 
was reasonable in recognition of the inconvenience this matter caused. 
Mr K and Mrs K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr K and Mrs K to have 
experienced poor service by Barclays when they tried to close their US dollar bank account. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays have provided a full enough 
explanation why the transfer took so long and if it has adequately compensated Mr K and 
Mrs K for this matter. 
Both parties have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events 
here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made as I 
dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to 
say I havent considered everything thats been said  I have. 
Mr Ks and Mrs Ks complaint centres around the fact Barclays having reinstated their US 
dollar bank account, then took over a month to close it and transfer monies to their joint 
sterling bank account despite several requests for them to do so. Mrs K feels she has lost 
out on the opportunity to re-invest these monies at the end of November 2022 as she 
intended to reinvest these monies into both premium savings bonds and a three-year bond 
with another provider. 
Mr K and Mrs K dont feel the compensation paid by Barclays of £150 is sufficient.
The first thing to say here is Barclays have accepted it made a mistake here when a 
restrictive account marker that should have been removed in mid-October 2022 wasnt. 
Barclays have apologised for this and have informed this service that this marker wouldnt 
have been readily visible to the front-line staff Mrs K interacted with, albeit that doesnt alter 
the fact it was the cause of the failure to close the account in late November 2022. 
As regards to Mrs Ks comments that the US dollar transfer into the joint bank account only 
referenced her name, I dont see that as being key to the complaint here, as what is 
important is those funds were credited to the joint account as requested. While I understand Mrs K feels Barclays should have let her know when the transfer from US 
dollars took place, Barclays have said that as soon as it realised what was causing the 
problem, it wanted to deal with Mrs Ks original instructions as soon as it possibly could - 
although perhaps it would have been better if this had been communicated to Mrs K at that 
time.  
Its worth saying its not my role to penalise or punish banks when a genuine mistake occurs, 
more that it apologises for that mistake, puts matters right and pays a proportionate level of 
redress  Im satisfied on balance Barclays have done that here and I will go on to explain 
why. 
So, in situations like this its reasonable to consider putting consumers back into the same 
position they would have been in before the mistake occurred. I have taken this into 
consideration, but here Mr K and Mrs K benefitted financially by a sum of over £900, 
because the exchange rate moved in their favour between the time of her original 
instructions in late November 2022 and late December 2022, when the account was closed 
 so to place them back into the position they would have been in, would be a financial 
disadvantage to them both and that wouldnt be right here. 
Mrs K says she was looking to invest £100,000 of those monies into premium savings bonds 
and has missed out on the monthly draw, but its not possible for me to say with any 
certainty this would have resulted in any financial gain. Mrs K says she was looking to have 
also tied the remaining funds (of around £66,000 at that time) into a three- year bond with 
another provider. 
But here again, I have no way of knowing that, as no evidence has been provided on any 
such investment. Its also fair to say if Mrs K had made such an investment at that time in 
late November 2022, from what we know now, those interest rates in all probability may not 
have been as favourable as those offered from late December 2022 onwards, as in all 
likelihood its fair to say interest rates on savings products overall improved over this time. 
Its also worth mentioning up until the US dollar account was reinstated, it had been many 
years since any activity on that account had taken place, as these monies as explained by 
Mrs K were intended for longer term purposes. So, with that in mind and the fact it was over 
a month after the US dollar account transfer took place before these monies were eventually 
re-invested by Mr K and Mrs K, its difficult for me to say with any certainty there was a time 
critical period for these sums to be reinvested here. 
Having said that, Barclays have made mistakes, but it has accepted that, apologised, 
provided feedback to the staff involved and paid £150 for the time it took to correct matters 
and on balance I am satisfied that is sufficient here, given theres no other financial loss to 
Mr K and Mrs K, arguably in fact they have benefitted financially as a result of the delay. 
With that in mind, while Mr K and Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be 
asking anymore of Barclays here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman