DRN-2081344
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy about a loan she acted as a guarantor on with Amigo Loans Ltd. She says 
Amigo didnt properly check whether she could afford the repayments in the event she was 
required to make them under the guarantee. 
What happened
In November 2018, Ms G said she agreed, under duress, to become the guarantor for her 
partners loan with Amigo. And again, in July 2019 when he applied for a Top-Up loan. The 
guarantee allowed Amigo to ask Ms G to step in and make repayments if the borrower did 
not. The monthly repayments on the loans were £171.10 and £256.14 respectively.
Ms G said she felt pressured into agreeing to be the guarantor and thought Amigo on 
checking her details would see she wouldnt be able to repay the debt and reject her as a 
guarantor. This didnt happen. Ms G said she was worried that her partner wouldnt be able 
to maintain the payments as he has gambling issues. And that she was having her own 
financial difficulties. She asked Amigo to remove her as a guarantor from the loan.
Amigo said they had carried out sufficient checks and that the loans were affordable and 
sustainable for Ms G if she had to step in as a guarantor. They also said they hadnt seen 
any evidence of Ms G being pressured into agreeing to be a guarantor.
Ms G wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Amigo had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for the 
first loan. But the information they had for the Top-Up loan should have prompted them to 
ask for additional information. By doing this they would have found that Loan Two wasnt 
affordable or sustainable for Ms G, if she needed to step in. She was persuaded by Ms Gs 
account that she had agreed to be a guarantor under duress but didnt think Amigo would 
have been aware of this. She said Amigo should remove Ms G as a guarantor from the loan.
Amigo havent responded to the investigators finding so the complaint has been referred to 
an ombudsman to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them 
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. 
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan 
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; 
and in this case the guarantors personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Loan One (November 2018) - £4,000  repayment £171.10 per month
Amigo has shown us evidence that they asked Ms G about her living expenses and
carried out a credit check before accepting her as a guarantor. I can see she told Amigo her 
income at the time for Loan One was £1,900 and her household expenses were around 
£748 per month. Ms G also had three unsecured loans with repayments totalling £312 per 
month. This left Ms G with a disposable income of £840.
Ms G has said these figures werent accurate. But I cant hold Amigo responsible for 
customers providing inaccurate information. I can only hold them responsible if they havent 
carried out proportionate checks. And from what I can see the checks they carried out didnt 
show any cause for concern over the details Ms G gave them.
Amigo has also given us the results of the credit check. These dont show anything
concerning  there are a number of open accounts but no missed or late payments or
defaults. And they said they added a £150 contingency amount to their calculations, for any 
unexpected expenses. So, based on the things Amigo checked, the repayments of £171.10 
per month looked affordable for Ms G.
Since making her complaint with us, Ms G has shown us her actual income. This shows her 
income was less than she had declared as she earned £1,546.05 plus overtime of £206. 
This means she was earning around £1768, which was £132 less than her declared income. 
But this would have still left her with disposable income of around £708 per month. And if her 
overtime wasnt taken onto account, shed have had a disposable income of £502. So, I think 
if Amigo had sought further checks their decision would have been unchanged as I think the 
repayments would have still been affordable for Ms G.
Having listened to calls at the time the loan was being taken out. I didnt hear anything that 
would have raised any suspicion that Ms G wasnt comfortable in agreeing to her role as 
guarantor. And Amigo fully explained to her what this role entailed. So, I cant say that Amigo 
was irresponsible in accepting Ms G as a guarantor.
Loan Two (July 2019) - £5250  repayment £256.14 per month
In July 2019, Ms G said she was again pressured into being the guarantor for a Top-Up 
loan with Amigo. This meant Loan One would be repaid, and any remaining balance would 
be paid to the borrower. I can see she told Amigo her income had increased to £2,150 and 
her household expenses were now around £1112 per month. This included £250 for rent and 
£289 for mortgage repayments, in Loan One Ms G hadnt given any amount for rent and I 
think this has been added in error so Ive removed it. This reduces Ms Gs outgoings to 
around £862. 
For Loan One, Ms G said she had three unsecured loans. But the budget planner now 
showed, she has five unsecured loans, two credit card repayments and a mail order balance per month. In total her repayments for these were around £714 per month. Taking all of 
these figures into account this would have left Ms G with disposable income of £324. The 
loan repayment was around £256, leaving her an amount of £68, less than the £150 
contingency allowed for by Amigo.
Amigo has also given us the results of the credit check. And this confirms that two new 
unsecured loans had been taken out by Ms G since Loan One. And given it was less than a 
year since the original loan, I think this should have prompted Amigo to carry our further 
checks.
Ive looked at Ms Gs bank statements prior to the second loan. This shows Ms Gs income 
in June 2019 being around £1590 and in July 2019, £1496. This would have meant she had 
no disposable income for either month which is supported as both statements also show her 
using her overdraft, close to its limit, for most of each month. 
So, I agree with our investigators findings that Loan Two was unaffordable and 
unsustainable. And therefore, Amigo shouldnt have accepted Ms G as the guarantor for this 
loan.
While I can see the borrower has missed the odd payment, I havent seen any evidence that 
Ms G has had to step in to make any of the required repayments. I think its more that Ms G 
knows any such request would add to her already difficult financial situation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint. To
put things right Amigo Loans Ltd must:
remove Ms G from the guarantee agreement and not pursue her for any of the debt; 
and
remove all records of the guarantee from Ms Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman