DRN-2114246
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to make reasonable adjustments 
for his communication needs.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr T told Lloyds that he had been unable to work due to illness since 
August 2017, which had led to him and his family becoming homeless and without a fixed 
address. He asked for communication to be by email. He acknowledged he had debt with 
Lloyds and wished to sort it out. He offered to repay at the rate of £1 per month.
Lloyds said they were generally unable to correspond by email due to security concerns. 
Their complaints department were however able to use a secure email system which had 
password protection, but Mr T was unable to use that.
Lloyds said they had agreed to Mr Ts repayment proposal for 12 months and also offered to 
communicate with him in different ways. They had suggested by telephone, writing to him at 
any address he was able to provide them with, sending letters to his nearest branch for his 
collection, and meeting with him in branch. So, they didnt feel they had acted unfairly.
Mr T was unhappy with Lloyds final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong and had made reasonable adjustments by offering a variety of alternative 
methods of communication.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr T has had a difficult time. I acknowledge that his 
circumstances have been extremely difficult for him and his family. Mr Ts complaint is about 
Lloyds failing to make reasonable adjustments for him. It is because of his illness and his 
circumstances that Mr T feels that Lloyds should communicate with him only by email.
There is a legal obligation upon businesses to make reasonable adjustments for any 
customer who has a disability. In this case Mr T has said he has PTSD, and although I have 
seen no written independent corroboration of such a diagnosis, I think on a balance of 
probabilities he probably does suffer from that condition. But even if I am wrong about that, 
the circumstances he has described make him vulnerable, and there are separate regulatory 
obligations and guidance on the treatment of vulnerable customers which Lloyds have to 
take into account.
The starting point here is that Lloyds communications with Mr T would contain highly 
sensitive and personal information, and that being so Lloyds would need to make sure that 
such information was handled properly and securely. With that in mind, and in consideration 
of Mr Ts difficulties, Lloyds would have needed to consider what practical assistance could 
offer Mr T. But that doesnt mean they had to agree to any proposal he might put forward.
Ive looked closely at the evidence provided and it is clear that not all of Lloyds departments 
are able to communicate by email. That I understand is due to the differing levels of security 
concerns those departments have with their communications. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation of some of the issues here. 
The complaints department is however able to use a secure email method which is 
password protected, but Mr T has confirmed that he is unable to use that. So, even if all 
Lloyds departments had this method of email communication, Lloyds couldnt have offered it 
to Mr T because he wouldnt have been able to use it.
Lloyds also offered to communicate by telephone, but Mr T couldnt use this because of his 
illness.
I can see Lloyds also offered to send letters to their branch and to meet with Mr T in the 
branch to discuss his account. I have been unable to see from the evidence why that was 
not possible for Mr T, and Mr T has not addressed it.
The issue here is whether Lloyds has done enough to assist Mr T. I know Mr T only wants to 
have communication by email, but Lloyds have explained why that is not possible, due to 
security concerns. And as Mr T is unable to use password protected secure email, what he 
is effectively asking for is an insecure email communication channel. And I dont think that 
would be a reasonable adjustment to make, because it would expose not only Lloyds, but Mr 
T to the risks of using a method of communication that doesnt securely handle information.
Lloyds have also told this service that they have other methods of communication available 
through other platforms such as webchat, secure messaging or mobile or internet banking. 
They also offered to communicate via his local branch. I can accept that these may also be 
methods that Mr T doesnt feel able to use, but the point is that collectively Lloyds have 
offered a variety of different communication channels to Mr T. So, in conclusion I think 
Lloyds has acted fairly in trying a range of options to help Mr T communicate with it, though I 
know its not been able to adopt the one Mr T wants.
Mr T has raised the point that in an earlier complaint against a different business in relation 
to the same issue, the Ombudsman upheld his complaint. He naturally wonders why there 
should be a difference here. Ive had regard for that other complaint and what my colleague 
has said, but I hope Mr T will understand that its my role to look at each complaint 
individually and decide what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. Here, as Ive 
found that Lloyds did offer other alternative ways of communicating with Mr T which is 
something the other business didnt do, then I cant say that it should do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman