DRN-3342499
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
following a request for a payment deferral during the pandemic.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by Mrs B. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr B 
throughout the decision. 
 
What happened
In October 2020 RBS agreed a three-month loan payment deferral for Mr B in line with the 
Covid relief guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr B expected his monthly repayments to commence automatically when the payment 
deferral expired. When he realised this hadnt happened, he contacted RBS. RBS accepted 
it had made a mistake - it had cancelled Mr Bs direct debit in error. 
RBS explained in a final response letter that it would: reinstate the direct debit to ensure 
future payments were made, refunded interest accrued on the arrears (£22.35), pay £50 
compensation for the inconvenience the error had caused and remove the adverse data 
reported on Mr B credit file about the missed payments. It also asked Mr B to call to make 
the payment that had been missed because of the direct debit not restarting when it should 
have done. 
But Mr B says he didnt receive this letter and therefore he wasnt aware of the next steps. 
So, he contacted RBS again. As a result, Mr B said hed spent more time on the phone 
trying to speak with RBS about the impact on his credit file. He also added that he was 
unhappy about receiving arrears letters which he felt were threatening.
RBS re-opened the complaint and responded further to Mr Bs concerns. It said the arrears 
letters were regulatory notices it had to send as - while a payment deferral had been agreed, 
technically the account was in arrears. It added that the amendment to Mr Bs credit file 
would be actioned but said that credit file updates arent automatic and could take several 
weeks to show on his credit report. For the additional inconvenience caused, it paid a further 
£100 in compensation. It also reimbursed Mr Bs call costs (£13) and refunded further 
interest (£25.29) and waived the pending interest of £4.45. It also said it would send the 
documents Mr B needed to sign to complete a loan extension to ensure the arrears were 
repaid.
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr B referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He noted  in addition to the actions mentioned above, RBS had provided 
evidence to show that any adverse data on Mr Bs credit file had been removed and that it 
had offered a further £100 compensation - £250 in total. So, he thought RBS had done 
enough to put things right and offered fair compensation. 
Mr B disagreed saying:
his credit file still didnt reflect that he hadnt missed the payments  rather the 
relevant credit file entries were showing as Q on his credit report.
RBS wouldnt discuss the repayment of the payment deferral arrears over the phone 
and he hadnt received the paperwork required to deal with this.
These issues had hampered his attempts to re-mortgage; and 
£250 compensation didnt sufficiently recognise the time spent on this matter and the 
distress caused.   
The investigator responded to explain that a Q marker on a credit file wasnt considered to 
be adverse data. It meant a query on the payment had been raised but that this didnt have a 
negative impact on the overall credit score. He added hed been in touch with RBS and it 
had been confirmed that the loan extension paperwork had been issued again. 
So, he didnt change his view that the steps RBS had taken to put things right - including the 
offer of increased compensation, was fair. Unhappy that the complaint had not been 
resolved to his satisfaction, Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
While completing my review of the complaint, RBS confirmed that it had since taken steps to 
also remove the Q marker from Mr Bs credit file. But I was still minded to reach a slightly 
different conclusion to the investigator to bring this complaint to a fair conclusion. So I asked 
the investigator to contact both parties to explain I was minded to increase the level of 
compensation to £450 (in total) and to direct RBS to contact Mr B directly to complete the 
required formalities to extend the term of the loan.
Mr B responded to say he had concerns that he still hadnt received the loan extension 
paperwork and that he thought the compensation was too low. RBS later responded to say it 
agreed to pay the increased amount of compensation. And it confirmed that contact had 
since been made with Mr B (on 21 June 2022) and that hed confirmed receipt of the loan 
extension paperwork but was waiting for the outcome of his complaint before signing and 
returning the forms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes both parties most recent comments. Having done so, as mentioned above, Ive 
reached a different outcome to that of our investigator, so Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I 
recognise that Mr B will still be disappointed as the outcome may not go as far as hed 
hoped, so Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that RBS made an error when setting up the payment deferral and in 
cancelling Mr Bs loan direct debit. So, I dont need to make a finding on this.
What remains in dispute is whether RBS has done enough to put things right for Mr B. The 
approach we take when a business has made an error is that the consumer should be put 
back in the position they would have been in had the error not incurred. And to consider 
whether an award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate.
As mentioned above, RBS has reinstated Mr Bs direct debit, refunded interest and 
telephone call expenses. And it has agreed to amend Mr Bs credit file to remove any data 
relating to missed payments for the months the payment deferral should have been in place. So, the crux of the matter outstanding as I see it is the loan term is yet to be extended due to 
delays in receiving the required paperwork, the impact on a potential re-mortgage application 
and the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused.  
Mr B has provided evidence which he believes shows that a re-mortgage application was 
declined due to the adverse data RBS recorded on his credit file. RBS said, when it first 
looked at Mr Bs concerns, that it couldnt find any adverse data recorded by it on Mr Bs 
credit file. But it would take steps to remove any that may have been in the process of being 
applied. This is because it can take up to around eight weeks for a credit file to be updated. 
While the complaint was reviewed by our investigator, RBS has shown that a U marker had 
been applied. I understand a U marker on a credit file is recorded when a lender doesnt 
have any other activity to report on the account. And that U markers are neutral, so are not 
regarded positively or negatively by lenders. Mr B has shown that one credit reference 
agency was reporting a Q marker, but as the investigator explained, this means that a 
query has been raised on the payments, but this isnt negative data either. In any event, 
RBS has since agreed to remove the Q marker. Overall, Im persuaded that RBS has 
agreed to do enough to ensure Mr Bs credit file has been updated. 
But to safely conclude this issue was the reason for a re-mortgage application to be 
declined, Id need to be satisfied that the sole reason for the decline was because of 
negative information recorded on his credit file. Overall, given the above, Im not persuaded 
that this is the case here. A re-mortgage application can be declined for many reasons and 
is quite often due to more than one single element in the application process.
 
I note Mr B says he found the arrears letters he received to be threatening. And I can 
understand why - having never been in arrears before, Mr B may have felt this way. But as 
the investigator explained, RBS didnt do anything wrong in sending them. RBS  like all 
lenders, has a regulatory obligation to make sure customers are kept updated on the status 
of their accounts. And, having looked at the letter Mr B has provided to us, Im satisfied this 
is a standard letter providing options on how to repay the arrears that accrued during the 
payment deferral. I would expect all lenders to have issued similar letters to all customers in 
the same circumstances as Mr B. 
I acknowledge the length of time it has taken for Mr B to receive the paperwork to 
reschedule the term of the loan. RBS says it has issued the documents twice to Mr B. And I 
can see the investigator has checked the address held by RBS. So, its not clear why the 
paperwork wasnt received previously. But  on balance, I think these were most likely sent. I 
think, making arrangements for repayment of the loan arrears would have just as important 
to RBS as it was for Mr B. In any event, as mentioned above, RBS has now confirmed the 
paperwork has been received by Mr B. I appreciate it took longer than expected to get to this 
point  but Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr B hasnt lost out financially because of 
the delay. This is because the paperwork relates to the term extension and any changes in 
the loan agreement would have always been required following the payment deferral and 
wouldnt have impacted his re-mortgage application. RBS has refunded interest on the 
arrears which I think is fair. 
I note some of the contact Mr B had to make to with RBS was a result of not receiving the 
final response letter. RBS has accepted that the final response letter  which should have 
been emailed to Mr B, may not have been sent successfully. But it has apologised, and 
refunded Mr Bs call costs incurred because of the additional calls he had to make which I 
also think is fair. 
But looking at the complaint as a whole, Im satisfied that Mr B was caused distress and 
inconvenience which stemmed from the initial error that RBS hasnt disputed. Taking the above into account, including the other refunds RBS has made, Im satisfied that £450 
compensation (in total) fairly reflects the impact RBS error had on Mr B.
I appreciate that the loan extension still needs to be executed. Ill leave it with Mr B to return 
the signed forms to RBS for this to be actioned.
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should now:
Pay Mr B £450 to recognize the distress and inconvenience caused less any 
compensation payments already paid.
Action the loan extension forms upon receipt and send confirmation to Mr B when 
this has been done.
Ensure that action has been taken to remove any data relating to the missed 
payments it recorded on Mr Bs credit file during the period the loan deferral 
should have been in place.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and I direct The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman