DRN-4189773
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Js complaint is about the interest rate charged on the secured loan they have 
with Evolution Lending Limited. They are unhappy the interest rate on the loan increased 
almost immediately after the loan was advanced, whereas Mrs J had been told it wouldnt 
change. As Mrs J made it clear to Evolution the interest rate that would be charged would 
impact their decision to accept the loan offer, they believe the loan was mis-sold.
What happened
Mrs J had an existing secured loan with Evolution and in the autumn of 2022, she spoke to a 
credit broker in the same financial group as Evolution. She asked to take a new secured loan 
to clear the existing one, other unsecured debts and borrow some additional funds for home 
improvements. The reason for doing so was to reduce the monthly payments she and Mr J 
were making for their existing debts. The broker confirmed that while fixed rate loans might 
be available elsewhere, the interest on Evolution loans was variable.
Evolution agreed to lend Mrs J £25,000 plus fees. However, this was less than Mrs J wanted 
to borrow and so Mr J was added to the loan application. Evolution agreed to lend them the 
£30,000 they wanted in September 2022 with a repayment term of 15 years. The mortgage 
offer set out interest would be charged at a variable rate of 20.41%. It went on to confirm in 
section 6:
The interest rate on this loan can change. This means the amount of your instalments could 
increase or decrease. For example, if the interest rate rose to 27.66%, your payments could 
increase to £671.29.
The terms and conditions set out that Evolution could vary the interest rate and when this 
might occur:
The Rate of Interest under this Agreement is variable. We may from time to time, in a 
reasonable and proportionate way, vary the Rate of Interest to take account of: (1) any 
change in the Bank of Englands bank rate, (2) any change in the costs of funds we use in 
our lending business (or if we reasonably expect that a change in costs of funding is about to 
occur), (3) a material adverse change in the value of our security (for example, because of 
the way in which the Secured Property (if applicable), is used of occupied) or (4) a change in 
law, decisions, determination or guidance of any regulatory authority which regulates our 
lending business or any applicable codes of practice.
On 3 October 2022 Mrs J called the broker as she had received an email from Evolution 
telling her the interest rate on her existing secured loan with it was increasing. She asked if 
this increase would apply to the new loan application, as it could affect affordability of the 
new loan. The broker confirmed the rate that was detailed in the mortgage offer wouldnt be 
affected by the change in interest rate Mrs J had just been emailed about. 
The loan completed on 24 October 2022. Following this, Evolution notified Mrs and Mr J the 
interest rate associated with the loan was increasing as of 12 December 2022. This 
increased the monthly payment from £509.97 to 526.73. Mrs J complained.
Evolution responded to the complaint in its letter of 3 January 2023. It initially confirmed all of 
its interest rates were variable and this would have been made clear to Mrs J throughout the 
sales process and was included in the documentation. It went on to confirm that as part of its 
decision whether to lend, it gathers information about the customers income and outgoings 
and then assesses whether the proposed loan is affordable. This process includes a stress 
test to check the loan will continue to be affordable if the interest rates rise on the proposed 
loan and any others in place. Evolution went on to confirm Mrs B had been told the interest 
rate increase she asked about would not affect her new application, but the statement was in 
relation to that specific rate increase. It should not have been taken to mean there would 
never be any changes to the interest rate charged on the loan. Evolution didnt consider it 
had done anything wrong and rejected the complaint. 
Mrs J was unhappy with Evolutions response and referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
was satisfied Mrs J had been made aware the interest rate on the loan was variable. As for 
the telephone call in question, he was satisfied Mrs J had been told the September 2022 
interest rate change wouldnt affect the amount she would pay on the new loan. 
Mrs J didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be passed to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied the documentation Mrs and Mr J were provided with made it clear the interest 
rate applied to their loan could vary. Indeed, the mortgage offer gave an example of the 
amount the monthly payment could increase to if the interest rate increased.
I have also listened to the telephone calls between Mrs J and the broker before the loan was 
taken out. In a call on 16 September 2022 Mrs J was clearly told Evolution only provided 
variable rate loans, but if she wanted to look elsewhere, she might be able to obtain one on 
a fixed rate of interest. I am satisfied that between the information Mrs J was given orally by 
the broker and the documentation provided, it would have been clear to Mrs and Mr J the 
nature of the interest rate which would be applied to any loan they chose to apply for  it was 
variable. 
In relation to the telephone call of 3 October 2022, Mrs J asked whether the interest rate 
increase shed been told would be applied to her existing loan would also be applied to the 
new one. She was correctly told it would not. While Mrs J wasnt reminded again the interest 
rate was variable, I dont think that was necessary, given the specific question Mrs J had 
asked and all the information shed previously been given. 
While I know this will disappoint Mrs and Mr J, I dont consider Evolution did anything wrong 
in relation to the interest rate being applied to their loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr J to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 July 2023.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman