DRN-3057992
The complaint
Mr P complains about poor administration services provided by Curtis Banks Limited (Curtis)
for his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  
What happened
Mr P holds commercial property within his SIPP. This requires Curtis to perform various
administration tasks in relation to the property such as rent and other payment demands. Mr
P complains about the service he has received. In particular Curtis didnt implement an
increase in rent and didnt respond quickly to communication from him. He wanted
compensation for the trouble he had been put to and to transfer his SIPP to another
provider. He wanted Curtis to contribute to the cost of that transfer which he estimated at
around £7,000 or waive all fees and costs involved in the transfer.
Curtis said it did not think it was reasonable that it should cover the costs and waive fees
associated with transferring the SIPP. It said the cost of transferring a property and legal
fees would be required to be paid. It said the complaints had not resulted in any financial
loss to Mr P. It was also unreasonable to suggest that Curtis should compensate Mr P for
the additional time he needed to spend. It said SIPPs always require time input from the
investor as it had no investment authority and could not provide any investment advice. It
worked on an execution only basis on the instructions provided.  
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. In short I said the following. Curtis accepted 
the conclusions of the Investigator so there was no dispute about the findings made by the 
investigator re failure to increase the rent and other issues. So, I didnt need to re-visit them 
further.
Where a mistake was made Mr P is entitled to be put back in the position he would have 
been in but for the mistake. That meant I could make an award for any financial loss and 
distress and inconvenience.
I noted the mistake in not increasing the rent meant the rent initially received was at the 
lower old rate and therefore the new increase wasnt received for some months. Mr P had  
not suggested that this caused him any financial loss.
I noted Mr P wished to be compensated for his additional time in putting things right That 
was not something this service would make an award for. However, the time and trouble
taken was something I could take into consideration in making an award for distress and
inconvenience.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award was not intended
to punish Curtis but to reflect the impact on Mr P. I thought the mistake in not increasing the
rent created additional work for Mr P that would not have been needed had Curtis issued the
correct invoice at the outset. I also thought it caused distress given that collecting the correct
rent was a fundamental issue in managing commercial property. Mr P needed to chase copy
invoices and chase the tenant. Given the tenant paid the increased amount it did not seem
there would have been any need for Mr P to be involved at all had there not been an
error. I noted also that the impact of the mistake is that Mr P has lost confidence in Curtis. 
So, it seemed the mistake was having a longer-term impact in his approach to double 
checking what Curtis do.
For all those reasons I thought an award of £300 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I noted also that it took five days to acknowledge the receipt of a rent memorandum and its
records showed rent as two entries. However, I thought five working days is reasonable and 
I didnt think the accounting entries caused material distress and inconvenience and in any
event this service could not tell Curtis how to present its accounting records.
Finally, I have considered Mr Ps request to be able to transfer to a new SIPP provider and
for Curtis to waive its fees and costs. I agreed that where commercial property was held any
such transfer will be costly and time consuming. I didnt think the mistakes made were
sufficient to merit such an award. I said that because they have been rectified.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct Curtis Banks Limited to pay Mr P £300 for
distress and inconvenience.
Neither Curtis or Mr P made further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comments I have not changed my mind. 
Putting things right
 I propose to uphold this complaint and direct Curtis Banks Limited to pay Mr P £300 for
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Curtis Banks Limited to pay Mr P £300 for
distress and inconvenience.
Curtis Banks Limited must pay Mr P the £300 within 30 days of this service notifying it that 
Mr P accepts this decision. If it does not pay the £300 within 30 days from such notification 
the amount of £300 shall be further increased from the date of this decision to the date of 
actual payment by 8% per annum simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman