DRN-3216498
The complaint
Ms F complains Sesame Limited provided inappropriate advice and mis-sold her an income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F took out a series of income protection policies, because she wanted to be covered in 
the event that she was unable to work due to illness or injury. She took additional policies as 
time went on, due to increases in her earnings. 
In 2010 Ms F approached an adviser shed used previously. She received advice about her 
income protection cover and as a result, cancelled one of her policies and took out another. 
However, the adviser Ms F used had changed employers. He previously worked for a 
company I will refer to as W, up until May 2010. When Ms F approached him for further 
advice later in 2010, he was working for Sesame. 
In 2018, Ms F approached an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) and all of her income 
protection policies were reviewed. And as a result, she had concerns that the policy Sesame 
recommended in 2010, with a provider Ill refer to as U, was mis-sold. 
Ms F complained to Sesame about the sale of the policy in 2010. She said as she already 
had other policies in place, she thought the additional policy with U had resulted in her being 
over-insured, and so the policy wouldnt have paid out in the event of a claim. She said the 
adviser she dealt with knew about all of the other income protection cover she had in place 
at the time. 
Sesame said it didnt think Ms Fs policy had been mis-sold. It said the recommendation was 
appropriate at the time. And said there was an agreement between U and the provider of 
another of Ms Fs policies  W  which said the two insurers had agreed not to net off 
against one another in the event of a claim. 
Unhappy with Sesames response, Ms F brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what and happened. And said they didnt think Sesame had 
done anything wrong. They were satisfied by Sesames explanations of the way the policies 
would work alongside each other in the event of a claim, and didnt think the 2010 policy 
provided by U had been mis-sold. 
Ms F disagreed with the investigators view in part. In summary she said shed not previously 
been provided with any written confirmation that her cover wouldnt be reduced by the 
benefits of her other policies. 
Sesame made no comment on the investigators view. And as Ms F didnt agree, the case 
has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should set out that Ms F has also brought a complaint about policies sold to her by a 
different business  W  and this is being handled separately. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Sesame provided advice, it had a 
responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms F when it sold it to her. This 
means it had a duty to consider Ms Fs individuals needs and circumstances, and based on 
this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable. Sesame also 
needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Having considered this, together with all of the evidence provided, I dont think Sesame has 
acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
Ive reviewed evidence from the time of the sale of the policy provided by U, in 2010. And 
Ive considered whether I think the recommendations were appropriate based on the 
demands and needs Ms F had set out at the time. 
Sesame recommended Ms F cancel an existing policy she had with U  which she had taken 
out in 2009. And recommended she take a new policy with U at that time. Based on the 
details Ive seen around the level of cover Ms F was looking for, I think this recommendation 
was suitable. 
Ms F has raised concerns that she was over-insured, meaning that she wouldnt have 
received the benefits she expected from the policies she was paying for, in the event of a 
claim. She had concerns that W would have deducted the amount of benefit being received 
elsewhere, effectively cancelling out some of the cover she held with U. 
Sesame has said it was aware of an agreement in place between U and W, which meant the 
insurers had agreed to share the liability, paying a proportion of whichever was the more 
generous maximum benefit. This was stated in Sesames report of its recommendations to 
Ms F. And it has since shown that it contacted W and U about this, when it sold Ms F the 
new policy.
Ms F has questioned whether this would have been the case in the event of a claim, as she 
wasnt provided with any written confirmation of this agreement between the insurers after 
taking out the policy. And she believed W would deduct the full amount of benefit received 
from other policies, when calculating the benefit due.
Our investigator contacted W and was provided with an explanation of how shared liability 
would apply, in the event that another insurer was paying a benefit higher than the maximum 
available under the W policy. And it confirmed a situation could occur where two policies 
both calculated up to the maximum, could effectively negate each others benefit. But the 
insurers had agreed to share the liability, up to the highest maximum. Although Ms F wasnt provided with confirmation in writing after taking out the policy, I have 
no reason to suspect that the policies wouldnt have performed in the way the insurer has 
explained, in the event of a claim. Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen, that the policies 
would work alongside each other in the way Sesame had advised Ms F in 2010. And, having 
reviewed information around Ms Fs earnings at the time and the benefits payable under 
each policy, I dont think it was the case that Ms F was over-insured. I think its most likely 
the maximum policy benefits wouldnt have been reached in the event of a claim, meaning 
Ms F would have received payment from each of her policies as shed expected. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Sesame Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman