DRN-4017462
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd (Admiral) is holding her liable for a 
loan which she says she did not consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mrs D disputes three loans which were taken out in her name in May 2022.  This complaint 
is about one of these loans: an Admiral loan in the sum of £14,000.  Mrs D says that a third 
party took out this loan without her consent and then coerced her into transferring the loan 
funds to them.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ds complaint and partially upheld it.  He was 
satisfied that Mrs D did not take out the loan but had use of the principal sum.  So, he 
directed that Mrs D should not be held liable under the terms of the loan; all interest and 
charges should be removed; and Mrs Ds credit file amended accordingly.  However, the 
investigator also directed that it would be fair for Admiral to pursue Mrs D for the principal 
sum of the loan.
As neither Mrs D nor Admiral accepted the investigators findings, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
On 3 March 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not agree with the investigators findings.  In my judgment, this 
complaint should not be upheld in part or in full for the reasons I set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Mrs D is disputing three loans in her name which she argues she did not take out.  She has 
referred two of these cases to our Service.  One being this case about Admiral, and the 
other about a loan provider I will refer to as L in this decision.
In Mrs Ds case about L, I held, amongst other things, that I was persuaded she had 
effectively consented to the L loan being taken out in her name.  Part of the reason I held 
this was because of inconsistences in Mrs Ds testimony regarding how the L loan had been 
approved; inconsistences which I place significance on in this present case.  That is, to my 
mind, the inconsistencies cast doubt on Mrs Ds credibility.  Therefore, I do not feel I can 
safely conclude, in this case, that Mrs D did not consent to the Admiral loan being taken out 
in her name.  I have also borne in mind the fact that Mrs D only complained to Admiral about 
the loan in June 2022.  I also note that Admiral sent Mrs D an email about the loan on 21 
May 2022  this was to the same email address Mrs D has provided this Service.  In Mrs Ds 
complaint about L, I said that I was persuaded she would have had access to her emails at 
this point.
I acknowledge the police involvement in this matter.  However, whilst Mrs D may have been 
a victim of a scam  this does not take away the fact that she approved the loan and 
therefore should be held liable under the associated credit agreement.
Taking all the above factors together  I am persuaded, on balance, that Mrs D consented to 
the Admiral loan being taken out in her name.  It follows that Admiral can hold her liable for 
it.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings and had nothing further to 
add.  However, Mrs D did not respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Admiral agreed with my provisional findings, but Mrs D did not respond  I see no 
reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman