DRN-2105578
The complaint
Mrs S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a medical expense claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs S is represented by Mr S.
What happened
Mrs S has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account.
Mrs S booked a holiday on 8 May 2019. She and Mr S travelled abroad a short time later. In 
early June 2019. Unfortunately, she began to suffer from severe back pain, which affected 
her limbs. She sought treatment at a private medical facility and underwent testing. On 3 
July 2019, Mr S got in touch with AXA to make a claim for Mrs S medical expenses. A few 
day later, he let AXA know that the treating doctor felt Mrs S needed urgent surgery.
AXA considered the claim. It said it needed medical evidence from the treating hospital and 
copies of Mrs S records from her GP before it could decide whether the claim would be 
covered. Mrs S surgery was scheduled for 23 July 2019. But AXA didnt have all the 
information it needed to make a cover decision at this point. So it told Mr S that if Mrs S 
surgery went ahead as planned, it was at her own risk and cost. Mrs S underwent surgery.
It took some weeks for AXA to get the medical evidence it needed. Its medical team had 
reviewed the existing information and felt the surgery hadnt been urgent. It also queried why 
Mrs S had sought private treatment, rather than visiting a public hospital under the EHIC 
scheme. 
Ultimately though, AXA turned down the claim because it said it was due to a pre-existing 
medical condition. It noted that Mrs S had seen her GP in February 2019 with symptoms of 
muscle and joint pain and had been referred to a musculoskeletal (MSK) clinic. Shed been 
due to visit the MSK clinic on 17 June 2019. But she was already abroad by this point and 
had already undergone a scan on 12 June 2019. So AXA said Mrs S had been under 
investigation for her symptoms at the point she booked her holiday. Claims arising from 
conditions a policyholder was being investigated for within six months prior to booking their 
trip was specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mrs S was unhappy with AXAs decision and she complained. She also provided evidence 
from her treating doctor, which said her surgery wasnt linked to a scan in 2018 which AXA 
had originally referred to  it had been down to a new spinal cyst and a hernia.
AXA maintained its decision to turn down Mrs S claim. But it didnt think its medical 
assistance company had been proactive enough in keeping Mrs S updated and hadnt 
communicated with her as well as it shouldve done. So it paid her £200 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs S wasnt happy with AXAs response and Mr S asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought itd been fair for AXA to turn down Mrs S claim. She felt the policy 
terms clearly excluded conditions a policyholder was undergoing investigations for during the 
six months before the trip was booked. She considered the available medical evidence 
showed it was most likely Mrs S had been undergoing investigations for the condition which 
had caused her claim at the time of booking the trip. So she thought the claim was excluded 
by the policy terms. And while she acknowledged AXA hadnt handled the claim as well as it 
couldve done, she felt the compensation itd offered was fair. 
Mr S disagreed. He felt the complaint hadnt been properly reviewed and AXA had turned 
down the claim based on too little evidence.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mrs S claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered the policy terms, Mrs S 
circumstances and the available medical evidence to decide whether AXA treated Mrs S 
fairly.
Mrs S policy includes cover for emergency medical expenses a policyholder incurs abroad. 
But it also includes a list of exclusions relating to a policyholders health. It says:
You will not be covered under:
Section B  Emergency medical, additional accommodation and travelling costs
For any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
Any Medical Condition You have, or have had, for which You are taking prescribed 
medication or are waiting to receive, or have received treatment (including surgery, tests or 
investigations) within the six months prior to opening Your Added Value Account or within 
the six months prior to booking any Trip, whichever is later, unless You have contacted Us 
and We have agreed, in writing, to cover You.
AXA defines a medical condition as: any disease, illness or injury. AXA maintains that Mrs 
S was undergoing investigations for the condition that caused her claim when she booked 
her trip. So Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence to decide if it was 
reasonable for AXA to draw that conclusion.
Mrs S first sought medical treatment abroad because of severe back pain and pins and 
needles on around 8 June 2019. Following testing, the treating doctor diagnosed a hernia 
and a cyst in Mrs S lumbar spine. It also seems she was suffering from spinal stenosis.
Like the investigator, Ive also looked closely at Mrs S medical records. I can see that on 1 
February 2019 (just over three months before Mrs S booked the trip), she visited her GP. 
The GP said: Multiple muscle and joint pains, shoulders, arms, legs, rib cage, back, 
hipsfinds stairs very difficult. They arranged a referral to the MSK clinic to investigate what 
was causing Mrs S pain. It seems this appointment was scheduled for 17 June 2019 , which 
Mrs S didnt attend as she was already abroad. Shed instead undergone a scan abroad on 12 June 2019. So it does seem to me that Mrs S was already under investigation for a 
condition that was causing her both pain (including back and hip pain) and mobility issues at 
the time she booked her trip. As Mrs S hadnt seen the MSK clinic before she travelled 
abroad, it doesnt seem that the cause of that pain had been diagnosed at that point.
I appreciate the treating doctor stated Mrs S diagnosis was a new diagnosis, rather than it 
being related to a previous cyst. I can see from Mrs S records that shed been diagnosed 
with a cyst in her hip area in May 2018 following an x-ray. But it seems to me that the GP 
considered Mrs S symptoms in February 2019 to at least potentially be new symptoms 
which required investigation. It doesnt seem the GP had linked the new symptoms with the 
findings of the x-ray in May 2018.
Based on the available medical evidence, I do think it was reasonable for AXAs medical 
team to draw a link between the investigations Mrs S had been referred for three months 
before booking her trip and her illness abroad. Its clear Mrs S hadnt told AXA about these 
investigations before booking her trip and that it hadnt agreed to cover them. So while I 
sympathise with Mrs S position, I do think her claim falls within the scope of AXAs 
exclusion. So I also think it was fair for AXA to rely on the policy terms to turn down Mrs S 
claim.
Its clear though that AXA didnt handle the claim as well as it couldve done. I dont think it 
was a clear as it couldve been about the information it was asking for either from the GP or 
treating hospital. So I think this slowed down AXA being in a position to make a decision 
about the claim. And I dont think AXA communicated with Mrs S fairly  Mr S often had to 
call to chase information and to find about how the claim was progressing. Im persuaded 
this wouldve added to Mrs S upset and trouble at an already worrying and distressing time. 
So I think it was appropriate for AXA to offer compensation to recognise the impact its 
handling of the clam had on Mrs S. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that £200 is 
fair compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mrs S suffered.
Overall, I dont think AXA needs to do anything more to resolve Mrs S complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman