DRN-4233680
The complaint
Mr J complains Barclays Bank UK Plc acted unfairly when it held him liable for a disputed 
transaction.
What happened
Mr J has a current account with Barclays and a debit card.
Mr J says he noticed a payment for £193.12 had gone out of his account that he didnt 
recognise. He says the payment caused his account to go over his overdraft limit. So, he 
complained to Barclays saying that it shouldnt have let the payment through and that it 
should refund him and pay £20 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Barclays looked into Mr Js complaint and said that it wouldnt be able to raise a chargeback 
because of the length of time that had passed and given everything it could see it believed 
the transaction was a genuine transaction rather than a fraudulent one. Mr J was unhappy 
with Barclays response and complained to us. He said that hed noticed other payments that 
he didnt recognise but that he wanted to speak to Barclays about these payments and so 
hadnt included them in his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint and said that Barclays hadnt sent 
sufficient evidence to establish that the transaction had been authorised by Mr J and that it 
should, therefore, refund the payment. They recommended that Barclays refund the disputed 
transaction along with any interest and penalties charged on it and pay £100 in 
compensation. Barclays disagreed saying that Mr J hadnt disputed the transaction at the 
time and the delay meant, for example, that it hadnt been able to check all of the 
circumstances under which it was authenticated and hadnt been able to raise a chargeback. 
Barclays also said that the merchant was located in a country Mr J and his family visited and 
reside in, increasing the likelihood that it was a genuine transaction. Barclays asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, I was asked to look into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision. In that provisional decision [some of the details of 
which Ive removed as this decision will be published], I said the following:
Barclays has said that Mr J didnt dispute this particular transaction for several months 
and that by the time he did it could no longer carry out a chargeback or check all of the 
circumstances in which the transaction was authenticated. Mr J, on the other hand, 
says that he reported it straightaway. A delay in itself doesnt mean an unauthorised 
transaction becomes an authorised transaction  under the Payment Service 
Regulations its up to the payment service provider to prove a payment transaction has 
been authenticated where a payment service user denies having authorised an 
executed payment transaction. But a delay can be a relevant consideration in cases, 
and, in this particular case, it feels an important factor. So, Ive considered whether or 
not there was a delay.
Having looked at Mr Js bank statements, amongst other things, Im satisfied that the 
payment hes complaining about took place on [removed] December 2021. He 
contacted Barclays on [removed] December 2021 to say that hed been the victim of a 
scam and that he asked Barclays to send him statements so that he could check the 
exact dates and amounts. His card was cancelled and a new one issued, and he was 
given advice about scams and how to avoid them. His statements suggest that he 
disputed three payments when he contacted Barclays  totalling just over £400  and 
temporary refunds for just over £400 were applied to his account on [removed] 
December 2021. Those refunds didnt include a refund for the £193.12 hes now 
complaining about. Mr J called Barclays a few days later to dispute a payment from 
June 2021 and other payments which were also temporarily refunded. Again, those 
refunds didnt include a refund for the £193.12 hes now complaining about. Mr J didnt 
dispute this payment until [removed] March 2022 which is when a temporary refund 
was applied to his account. In short, Im satisfied that Mr J didnt dispute this payment 
until more than three months after it had been made, that hed received statements in 
the meantime that hed asked for so he could check the dates and amounts of other 
payments he wanted to dispute and that he disputed a number of payments in the 
meantime.
Mr Js account didnt go over its overdraft limit when the £193.12 payment originally 
went out on [removed] December 2021, and the temporary refund on [removed] March 
2022 brought his account back down below his overdraft limit. The temporary refund 
was reversed on [removed] May 2022 at which point Mr J was already over his 
overdraft limit.
I agree with Barclays that this payment looks like it was a genuine one  it was to a 
merchant in a country Mr J and his family visited and resided in and was also a one-
off. I agree too that if it had been a fraudulent payment, its likely that Mr J would have 
reported it at the time as he contacted Barclays shortly afterwards to say hed been the 
victim of a scam and reported several disputed transactions at the time having also 
asked to be re-sent his statements so he could check for fraudulent payments. I can 
also see that Barclays checked, for example, the IP address that was used for the 
transaction at the time and this showed it matched addresses Mr J had previously 
used and that it could see hed logged into his online banking multiple times since 
then.
Given everything Ive said above, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Barclays to say in this particular case that it was holding Mr J liable for this transaction. 
So, Im not minded to uphold this complaint.Both parties were invited to comment on my provisional decision. Neither did. In the 
circumstances, Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments and, having done 
so, remain of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman