DRN-3438056
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd has been applying high charges to his 
pension plans since their inception in the early 1980s, and that their performance will have 
been impacted as a result. Mr I has further complained that he was unable to move into a 
drawdown contract without transferring to another pension provider.
What happened
Mr I established six retirement annuity contracts (RACs) between 1980 and 1982 with a 
predecessor firm of Zurich. 
As Mr I approached his 75th birthday, Zurich contacted him in early 2021 to explain that he 
would need to transfer his pension funds to another provider which had a flexi access 
drawdown account, as Zurich didnt have such a facility. 
Mr I complained on the above basis, but Zurich declined to uphold his complaint, saying that 
it had deducted charges in line with the policies terms and conditions, and that while newer 
plans had altered the way in which charges were deducted, the terms of the older plans 
hadnt been changed.
It also confirmed that its pension plans had never offered a drawdown facility, and that 
customers such as Mr I would need to transfer to a provider which did. It noted that Mr I had 
transferred his plans to Aviva in February 2021.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr I referred his complaint to this service. In his complaint 
submission, he said that hed been asking Zurich for notification of his plan charges for many 
years, the last time being in February 2020. He said that he hadnt received the requested 
information, instead being provided with a plan valuation.
Mr I said he believed that the government had introduced legislation which compelled 
pension providers to declare their charges. But the difference between the Zurich and Aviva 
charges had in any case become clear to him once hed transferred, he added. He said hed 
been paying separate annual charges of 3.5%, 0.75% and 3% on his six pension plans, 
compared to just 0.5% pa with his Aviva plan.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The plans were established over 40 years ago, before regulation was introduced, and 
the information requirements on business were different to those now in place. 
But providers still needed to operate the plans in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the contracts they had entered into.
Zurich had provided a copy of the provisions for Mr Is pension plans, and for four of 
them it had confirmed the following:
A charge at the rate of 3/4% per annum of the values of the investments of the 
Funds as determined by the Actuary is deducted from the Funds at the valuations 
referred to in 2 below. Provided a Basic Contribution or reduced Basic Contribution is 
paid in each of the first 15 Policy Years the rate of charge in respect of Accumulation 
Units (only) will be reduced from 3/4% per annum to 3/8% per annum in respect of 
the 16th and subsequent Policy Years.
In the section about fund variation, Zurich had also said that an administrative charge 
would be made of a percentage of the value of the units to be cancelled.
For the other two policies, the provisions said the following:
A charge at the rate of 1% per annum of the values of the investments of the Funds 
as determined by the Actuary is deducted from the Funds at the valuations thereof 
referred...
The charges on the plans were disclosed at the outset and Zurich had discretion to 
vary the charges during the terms of the plans. This wasnt unusual, and the charges 
werent excessive or outside any prescribed limit. Further, Mr I hadnt been treated 
differently from other plan holders.
As to the matter of Zurich having told Mr I that he couldnt enter drawdown with it, it 
was worth noting that the pension freedoms legislation expanded the options for 
pension providers, but the law still allowed providers to choose which options they 
would offer. Zurich had chosen to not offer income drawdown, and whilst this might 
be disappointing to Mr I, it hadnt done anything wrong.
Zurich had also acted reasonably in answering Mr Is queries relating to his plans.
Other providers may offer lower charging structures, but this didnt mean that Zurich 
had done anything wrong. The pension plans Mr I established in the early 1980s 
were a product of their time. More simplified policies, such as stakeholder plans with 
streamlined charging structures, had since been introduced.
Mr I disagreed, however, saying that Zurich did allow for drawdown from its own client 
pension funds. He further drew attention to his most recent annual statement from Aviva, in 
which the annual charges were described as being 0.22%, 0.76% and 0.31% on three 
investment funds respectively.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im broadly in agreement with the investigators findings, and for similar 
reasons.
To firstly address the matter of the plan charges, Id reiterate what the investigator said 
about the policies being very much of their time. RACs, as a precursor to Personal Pension 
Policies (PPPs), and after which then came stakeholder policies, were costed and charged 
for in a different way to their successor plans. 
And whilst Ive noted what Mr I has said about having received no information about the charges being applied to his plans, I can see that Zurich wrote to him in December 2015 
setting out in some detail the nature of his plans, and the associated charges. 
For example, for plan number beginning 2535, which began in September 1980, and from 
which I think Mr I has taken the plan charges quoted above, there was a bid/offer spread on 
the pension fund units themselves, which isnt unusual in pension funds today. The charge 
on the capital units  those bought with the first two years contributions  was also not 
unusual for this type of policy, and was in fact carried over into the earlier examples of PPPs 
when they were introduced in the late 1980s. Broadly speaking, it was a mechanism to 
ensure that initial set up costs were recouped by the pension provider through higher 
charges on the initial plan contributions.
But this charge didnt apply to accumulation units, which would be bought with contributions 
after two years, and so it wasnt a charge which applied to the entire pension funds units.
The fund management charge of 0.75% isnt at particular variance with the highest fund 
management percentage Mr I has quoted in response to the investigators assessment. And 
whilst the service charge of 3% is higher than that which would be charged in more modern 
policies  for example stakeholder plans would be capped at 1% pa  its also worth noting 
that this charge was capped at £4.50 on each monthly contribution, which would therefore 
benefit higher contributions, and perhaps most notably didnt continue to apply beyond the 
cessation of premiums. This is a benefit which wouldnt apply to more modern policies, 
which would typically continue to apply an annual administration charge once a policy was 
made paid up.
I note that the above policy was made paid up in September 1980, and so according to the 
information provided, no further service charge would have been applicable beyond that 
point.
As with the investigator, I dont think the available evidence supports the position that Zurich 
has incorrectly applied the charges as set out in the policy provisions, and Zurich has itself 
confirmed that the charges have been correctly applied.
And so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Zurich has treated Mr I unfairly  
as far as I can tell, its applied the charges as set out in the policies terms, to which Mr I 
would have agreed when establishing the plans.
Turning then to the matter of Zurich not offering Mr I the option of an income drawdown 
policy, Ive noted Mr Is concerns that Zurich does in fact have income drawdown policies. 
But I havent seen evidence which would support this assertion, and Im in any case 
confident that if this was the case, and Zurich had such a product to which Mr I could have 
transferred internally, it would have offered this. There would have been no reason for it not 
to, and would have ensured ongoing retention of the pension funds under its management.
Overall therefore, and whilst I know this may disappoint Mr I, I dont think Zurich has done 
anything wrong here. As such, my view is that, on a fair and reasonable assessment of the 
circumstances, I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman