DRN-3786411
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him money he says he lost as a result of 
a fraud.
What happened
Mr S met a third-party using an online dating platform. Their conversation eventually 
progressed onto a messaging platform after exchanging numbers and both parties 
expressed an interest in meeting each other. 
As they were a considerable distance from each other, they both agreed to share the cost of 
a train journey so that the third-party could meet Mr S where he resided. 
After conducting some research, both parties agreed on a train ticket price. The third-party 
sent Mr S a screenshot and a video of the purchase confirmation for the train ticket and he 
transferred half of the ticket value (£115). 
The third-party later messaged Mr S stating that they were upset with how long hed taken to 
come back and pay the money. They further added that due to this, they were unable to 
clear things with their manager and were annoyed at Mr Ss behaviour. The third-party 
conceded that the trip was a loss, and both would have to take half that loss as it was a non-
refundable ticket. 
Mr S, believing hed been defrauded, contacted Monzo and reported the matter. However, 
after consideration of the evidence, it decided it wouldnt reimburse him the loss. 
It looked into the claim taking into consideration the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(the CRM Code) which it had voluntarily signed up to. Having done so, it felt that Mr S hadnt 
carried out sufficient due diligence checks to confirm the legitimacy of the individual he was 
speaking with. As such, it said that it was permitted under the Code not to reimburse. 
Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. An 
Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded Monzo should 
have reimbursed Mr S for his loss. In conclusion, when considering the claim under the CRM 
Code, they felt Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a legitimate 
person. As such, they felt that Monzo couldnt demonstrate one or more of the exemptions 
for reimbursement under the Code. 
Monzo disagreed. In summary, it remained of the opinion that Mr S hadnt carried out 
sufficient checks to ensure he was dealing with a legitimate person despite having never met 
them. 
As Monzo disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision. On 20 January 2023, I issued my provisional findings regarding the complaint to 
both Mr S and Monzo. These were as follows:
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
Ive also thought about the Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Monzo 
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr C made the payment subject to this 
dispute.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer 
who is victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud except in a small number of 
circumstances. However, the CRM Code specifically stipulates that it does not apply to 
private civil disputes and, therefore, a fraud must have taken place in order for it to be 
considered under the Code.
Having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Mr S has been subject to a fraud here. I have reached my findings based on the 
following combined factors:
Mr S and the third-party spoke over the telephone on several occasions prior to 
transfer. Mr S believed these conversations to be genuine and didnt suspect 
anything unusual in them.
Mr S was sent both a screenshot and a screen video showing the confirmation email 
for the train booking shortly after the agreement was reached that the third-party 
would visit him. These appear genuine and I find it unlikely these could have been 
manufactured in such a short space of time.
The messages Mr S received from the third-party dont have any of the 
characteristics I would typically expect in communications with a fraudster.
The third-party appeared to become irate with Mr S not sending half the funds after 
booking and that he wasnt responding to messages and several missed calls from 
them. This appears to have left the third-party feeling anxious about their meeting.
Communication appears to have broken down between both parties at this stage as 
the third-party was unable to confirm the time off with their manager as Mr S didnt 
respond until circa five hours later. They then pulled out of the meeting citing the 
delay in response and the fact that the incident had left a bitter taste in their mouth.
The third-party said the ticket was non-refundable  meaning theyd also lose half the 
cost.
Having conducted enquiries with the beneficiary bank, the account the funds were 
sent to was in the name of the party Mr S was communicating with. The account 
provider has also confirmed that, other than Mr Ss report of fraud, no other reports 
have been received against the account before or since this one. This is 
uncharacteristic for an account used for fraud and money laundering.
Mr S has argued that he had contacted the train company to confirm the booking but 
was informed that no such booking existed. However, Ive seen no evidence to support 
this. I also find it unlikely that a train company would disclose information about a third-
party booking as this would contravene data protection laws.
Without evidence to the contrary, I find that this incident is more likely to be one where the 
third-party has got cold-feet and decided against the meeting due to the breakdown in 
communication. While I acknowledge that frauds do exist whereby victims are persuaded to 
send money for a third-party to travel and meet with them, I must also acknowledge that 
there are equally instances where such meetings are legitimately organised, but not 
followed through. This is supported by the fact that Mr S met the third-party on a website 
that specifically caters for these types of arrangements.For all the above reasons, I find that on balance, its more likely than not that Mr S 
hasnt been defrauded. Therefore, Monzo has no obligation to refund Mr S for the loss.
Both parties were given until 3 February 2023 to provide any further comment or 
evidence prior to issuing my final decision.
Monzo had nothing further to add. But Mr S didnt agree. He maintained that hed been 
scammed by the third-party and highlighted again that hed spoken to the train 
company which confirmed no such ticket was purchased for that amount, to that 
destination.
As both parties have now responded to my provisional findings, Im now in a position to 
come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has further added that he contacted the train company the third-party claimed to have 
booked the ticket through and it confirmed that no ticket was purchased for the amount paid 
and to the destination specified. 
However, Ive reviewed the messages between Mr S and the third-party again and have 
noted that the specific ticket purchased by the third-party was in fact suggested by Mr S after 
conducting his own research. Mr S found the ticket the third-party had purchased using an 
application he suggested that the third-party download. So, I find it unlikely that the ticket 
didnt exist considering he had found it himself before it was purchased for approximately the 
same value.
Furthermore, as Ive already highlighted in my provisional findings, the third-party sent Mr S 
both a screenshot and a screen video showing the ticket shortly after booking it. I find it 
unlikely that a fraudster would have been able to fabricate these in such a short space of 
time considering that these were both sent shortly after Mr S had recommended the 
application and specific ticket.
So, without further evidence to support Mr Ss claim that the ticket wasnt purchased, I find it 
more likely than not that he wasnt a victim of fraud. I realise Mr S feels differently to me 
regarding this, but I must base my findings on the evidence and testimony presented. And 
this has persuaded me, on balance, that he was likely dealing with a legitimate person.
Monzo therefore arent liable to refund the transaction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman