DRN-4171662
The complaint
Mr A complains about Markerstudy Insurance Services Limited (MISL) and the way they 
settled his motor insurance claim after his car was deemed to be a total loss.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr A purchased a motor insurance policy through an intermediary, who 
Ill refer to as B. The policy itself was underwritten by MISL.
Unfortunately, on 31 December 2021, Mr As car was damaged in an arson attack while 
parked on his driveway. So, he contacted MISL to make a claim.
MISL accepted Mr As claim and instructed an engineer to assess the damage. Due to the 
damage the car sustained, it was deemed a Category B total loss meaning it needed to be 
crushed and couldnt return to the road. So, in March 2022, MISL paid Mr A a pre-accident 
value (PAV) of £12,400, less Mr As applicable excess on the policy. Mr A was unhappy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A was unhappy that the PAV he received was based on the market value of his car, and 
not the insured value he provided at the inception of the policy. He didnt think it was fair for 
him to pay a premium based on the insured value, if he wasnt going to be paid this in the 
event the car was deemed a total loss. So, Mr A wanted the PAV settlement to be increased 
to this amount. Mr A also complained about the advice hed been given regarding the 
remaining premiums payable on his policy after January 2022. Mr A felt MISL told him these 
premiums would be refunded when they werent. And he didnt think it was fair to be charged 
a premium for a policy that wasnt insuring a car he could use. So, he wanted any premium 
he paid after December 2021 to be refunded to him.
MISL responded to Mr As complaints and didnt uphold them. They thought the PAV paid to 
Mr A was a fair one, calculated in line with industry guidelines and their terms and 
conditions. And they thought they were fair to retain the policy premiums and explained they 
had no evidence to show they told Mr A these would be returned to him. So, MISL didnt 
offer to do anything more. Mr A remained unhappy with this response, so he asked our 
service to continue with our investigation.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the 
PAV payment made to Mr A was a fair one, as it fell within motor trade guide valuations they 
obtained. And they explained they wouldnt expect MISL to give Mr A the option of buying 
the car back, due to its Category B classification. They were also satisfied that MISL were 
fair to keep the remaining premiums, in line with the terms of the policy and standard 
industry practice. So, our investigator didnt think MISL needed to do anything more on this 
occasion.
Mr A didnt agree. And he held an in-depth telephone conversation with our investigator 
where he explained why. Mr As comments included, and are not limited to, his insistence 
that it was unfair for the policy premium to be calculated on the insured value he provided 
only for a market value PAV to be paid to him when he made a claim. Mr A continue to 
reaffirm his belief MISL agreed to refund him his premiums payable after December 2021, 
and why he felt they should do so. Mr A also expressed his unhappiness with MISLs 
decision not to offer insurance for his replacement car.
Our investigator considered Mr As comments, but their opinion remained unchanged. And 
they explained as they hadnt seen evidence to show Mr A had raised a complaint about 
MISLs decision not to insure his replacement vehicle, our service wouldnt be able to 
consider this aspect of the complaint at this time. Mr A continued to disagree and so, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I recognise how 
traumatising and upsetting it wouldve been for Mr A to discover his car had been damaged 
the way it had. And I appreciate Mr A took out the policy underwritten by MISL to ensure the 
inconvenience and financial impact of such a situation would be minimised. So, when Mr A 
received a PAV payment from MISL he was unhappy with, and he discovered he wouldnt be 
receiving a refund for the premiums he paid after the damage to his car, I can understand 
why Mr A would feel as though he had been treated unfairly.
But for me to say MISL should do something more, such as increase Mr As PAV payment, I 
first need to be satisfied they have done something wrong. So, I need to be satisfied they 
failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr A held. Or, if I think they did act 
within these, that they acted unfairly in some other way when handling Mr As claim. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think its important for me to explain what 
Ive been able to consider, and how.
I note in a call between Mr A and our investigator, Mr A expressed his concerns about MISL 
declining to provide insurance for his replacement car. Ive seen no evidence to show this 
issue has been raised with MISL directly at this moment in time. And before our service is 
able to consider any complaint issue, a business such as MISL must be given a chance to 
respond to it within their own complaint process. So, this issue currently falls outside of our 
services jurisdiction to consider, and I wont be commenting on it any further.
I also want to make it clear it is not our services role to comment upon industry guidelines, 
nor are we able to direct business to change commercial decisions they make. I recognise 
Mr A feels it is unfair for a policy to be calculated on an insured value provided at inception, 
when a policy is designed to only pay the market value of a car at the time of loss, should it 
be deemed a total loss.
I can confirm this is a standard industry process and most, if not all, policies are set up in this 
way. So, any complaint about the fairness of this would need to be directed to the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, as decisions about the wider industry falls within 
their remit. And I wont be commenting on this in any further detail.My role is to consider the actions MISL have taken in the individual circumstances of Mr As 
claim. And when doing this, Ive thought about all of the comments provided by both parties, 
alongside the policy terms and conditions and other accompanying evidence. I want to 
reassure both parties Ive thought about everything that has been said, even if Ive not 
commented on it specifically within this decision.
Ive first thought about the PAV payment Mr A has received from the claim. I recognise Mr A 
doesnt think the payment he received is a fair one, as he thinks he couldve sold it for more 
than that amount. And, that it is lower than the insured value he provided at the inception of 
the policy.
As Ive explained above, it is standard industry practice for the market value of a car to be 
paid when a car is deemed a total loss. And I can see within the terms and conditions of the 
policy Mr A held that MISL define market value as the cost of replacing the insured vehicle 
at the time of loss or damage compared with one of the same make, model, specification 
and condition the market value will be assessed by an automotive engineer in conjunction 
with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
I think this makes it reasonably clear how the market value would be calculated. And, that 
this value is entirely separate to the insured value, or the retail value of the car. So, I dont 
think MISL are obliged to increase the PAV to meet either the retail or insured value. But I 
would expect MISL to reach a market valuation in line with industry guidelines, and the term 
Ive referenced above.
I can see on this occasion an engineer assessed the car and obtained a large number of 
comparable car quotes, as well as the valuation of one motor guide, to obtain a PAV of 
£12,400. And I can see our service has obtained motor trade valuations in line with industry 
guidelines, which ranged from £11,095 to £12,486.
So, based on the above, Im satisfied that the £12,400 PAV payment MISL paid to Mr A, 
subject to his policy excess, was a fair one. And because of this, I dont think MISL have 
acted unfairly, or outside of the terms of the policy, when calculating this amount.
Ive then turned to Mr As concerns about the policy premium. As Ive explained, I wont be 
commenting on whether it was fair for MISL to calculate a premium price based on the 
insured value, as this is standard industry approach and so Mr As concerns about this 
practice would need to be directed to the industry regulator. If Mr A is in any way unhappy 
with how the policy was sold, this would need to be raised with B who acted as the 
intermediary in the sale process.
But I have thought about whether MISL were fair when not refunding the premiums Mr A 
paid after his car had been damaged. Within the terms and conditions, it states that MISL 
reserve the right to retain all premiums paid for the current period of insurance in the event 
that a claim has been made against the policy during this period until such time as we 
recover any monies paid out by us.
The terms and conditions go on to state that, where a car is deemed a total loss this policy 
will be cancelled without refund of premium unless you change your vehicle to another that 
would normally be acceptable to us in the event of the policy being cancelled due to the 
insured vehicle being a total loss or stolen and not recovered, and there being no 
replacement vehicle to insure (or if there is a replacement vehicle to insure which is 
unacceptable to us) all outstanding or overdue premiums, including any administration 
charge due, must be paid immediately.
So, based on the above, I think MISL were able to retain the premiums Mr A paid, or agreed to pay, for the entire period of insurance when the policy was incepted. And that no refund of 
any premiums would be due where a car was deemed a total loss and no acceptable car 
was able to be placed on the same insurance policy.
In this situation, MISL have confirmed the replacement car Mr A wanted to insure wasnt 
acceptable to them and so, I dont think I can say MISL have acted unfairly when not issuing 
a refund of the premiums Mr A paid. And I would expect MISL to continue taking premiums 
whilst the claim was ongoing, as Mr A was still receiving a benefit from the insurance policy 
as MISL were handling the claim under that policy period. So, because of the above, I dont 
think I can say MISL have acted unfairly when not refunding Mr A the premiums hes 
mentioned in his complaint to MISL, and in his conversations with our service.
I understand Mr A feels this contradicts information he was given by MISL. But Ive seen all 
of the system notes, and I cant see any evidence of MISL suggesting a refund of premiums 
would be paid. And even if MISL had stated this may happen, I dont think they were obliged 
to provide this under the policy terms, as Ive explained above.
I also appreciate Mr A has since raised concerns about MISLs refusal to accept his 
replacement car on the insurance policy. But as I stated earlier within the decision, I cant 
see this issue has been raised with MISL and so, will need to be raised and handled 
separately through MISLs complaint process before our service can consider further. 
And finally, I understand Mr A is unhappy he wasnt given the opportunity to retain his car. 
But I can see it was deemed a category B total loss, meaning the extent of the damage 
required it to be crushed. So, in this situation, neither I nor standard industry processes 
would expect MISL to offer Mr A this option. So, I dont think MISL have done anything 
wrong here.
Because of all of the above, Im unable to say MISL have acted outside of the policy terms 
and conditions or acted unfairly in some other way on this occasion. And so, I dont think 
they need to do anything more. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I appreciate Mr A feels strongly 
about the complaint and why, considering the circumstances of the damage, he feels MISL 
have treated him unfairly. But Ive thought carefully about all of the comments Mr A has 
made, alongside the evidence and policy documents. And on this occasion, Im unable to 
agree.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Markerstudy 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman