DRN-3746931
The complaint
Mr M complains that Covea Insurance plc recorded an incident on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE), and this led to an increase in the premiums for his motor 
insurance policy. He wants the record removed.
 
What happened
Mr Ms car was hit by another car whilst unattended. The other drivers insurer dealt with the 
claim. But Mr M was unhappy that Covea had recorded the incident on CUE. Mr M said this 
led to a premium increase which he thought was unacceptable.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Covea 
had a duty to record all incidents, regardless of fault or the circumstances. He thought the 
incident circumstances wouldnt change this duty. And he thought insurers set their own 
premium pricing, so he couldnt hold Covea responsible for this. 
Mr M replied that he thought it was unfair that he should be penalised when the incident 
wasnt due to any fault of his own or had led to Covea incurring costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr Ms parked car had been hit by another driver whilst it was 
unattended. I can see that the other insurer accepted liability and all of Coveas costs were 
recovered. And I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that the recording of the incident 
has led to an increase in his premiums quoted by other insurers. 
But Im satisfied that Covea has a responsibility to record all incidents on CUE. This is so 
that other insurers can be aware of drivers histories and are able to assess the risks 
involved in insuring them. 
We often find that that a claim or notification itself  regardless of whos at fault  will affect 
the premium. While some insurers will only rate on No Claims Discount (NCD) disallowed or 
fault claims, others will consider any claim  or even just a claim notification  as a risk 
factor. This is because insurers say that drivers who have been involved in accidents, 
regardless of fault, are more likely to be involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr M may find this to be illogical and unfair. But being involved in an 
incident could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving 
at particular times. Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors 
they should consider when calculating a risk. However we need to make sure the insurer is 
applying a fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. But Mr M hasnt complained about the premium quoted by Covea. Hes complained 
that other insurers have increased their quoted premiums. As these are separate businesses 
to Covea, I cant consider that here. Mr M would have to raise his concerns with the relevant 
insurers. If he remained unhappy, then he could bring his complaint to us.
Im satisfied that Covea correctly recorded the incident on CUE. And, as it hasnt done 
anything wrong, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman