DRN-3615110
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Miss T was approached on social media by a well-known influencer Ill call 
W with an investment opportunity. W had previously set up or been involved in the setting up 
of other e-commerce businesses and he and his partner, who Ill refer to as M, had big social 
media followings and had worked with credible brands. Once Miss T agreed to invest, she 
was added to a chat group with numerous other investors. They were told not to share any 
details of the investment with others. 
Miss T paid £1,000 in two payments in July 2020 (on 5 and 12 July) to invest in four start-up 
companies that W was setting up. For an investment of £250 in each company Miss T was 
offered a 0.4% shareholding per company and 2% dividends. When the companies were set 
up M was listed as the director of them.  
Miss T and others who had invested later discovered they were victims of a scam and W 
stopped communicating with them. She reported the scam to Monzo on 18 May 2021. Miss 
T says other investors have been reimbursed by their banks. 
Monzo didnt agree to provide Miss T with a refund and said she was involved in a civil 
dispute and so the CRM Code doesnt apply. It contacted the bank that received Miss Ts 
funds on the day she reported the scam but was advised that no funds remained.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss Ts complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. 
He concluded that this was not a civil dispute between Miss T and W. He also said Miss T 
had a reasonable basis for believing the investment was legitimate because:
- W had proven entrepreneurial experience and had set up businesses before. Miss T 
had purchased products from W in the past at sales events. 
- Before she invested Miss T received communications from W that persuaded her the 
investment was genuine. 
- Although the promised contract didnt materialise, Miss T went through an application 
process.
- Miss T wasnt given a warning that would affect her reasonable basis for believing it 
was a genuine investment. 
- Miss Ts actions were reasonable for a first-time investor. 
Monzo didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, it said:
- It previously thought this was a civil dispute because it thought one of the start-up 
companies was real but now knows this isnt the case.
- Miss T didnt perform sufficient checks before investing. 
- The application process was through WhatsApp, which isnt a legitimate trading 
platform. 
- An investigation into the four start-up companies gives no indication that they are 
legitimate businesses. For three of the companies first accounts are overdue and 
there is no website. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should reimburse some or all of the money Miss T lost in line with the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (CRM Code) it has 
agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss T from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. The exception set out in the 
CRM Code that is relevant to this case is:
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Civil dispute or scam?
Monzo now seem to accept that Miss T is the victim of a scam and so I dont need to go into 
any detail. For the sake of completeness though, Im persuaded that Miss T has been 
scammed. There are numerous reasons for this including police evidence and evidence from 
the bank that received Miss Ts funds. 
Having decided that the CRM Code applies Ive gone on to consider whether Miss T had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a genuine investment. 
Did Miss T have a reasonable basis for believing the payment she made was legitimate?
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Miss T had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. Having done so, I am not persuaded that 
Miss T failed to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Im satisfied that Monzo hasnt shown that Miss T lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Miss T had followed W and M on social media for six years and each had a large 
number of followers. This made Miss T feel they were both credible.  
W had launched successful businesses in the past and M was affiliated to large brands. These factors reasonably led Miss T to believe they could successfully 
launch further genuine businesses and build on their success. 
This was a different type of investment that was more akin to crowdfunding and so 
attracting investors through a social media platform didnt seem out of the ordinary. 
Miss T was investing in start-up businesses so the usual checks that might be 
completed when investing funds werent relevant to this investment. The businesses 
werent incorporated at the time Miss T made her payments and so a Companies 
House check wouldnt apply. 
Miss T wasnt being offered an unrealistic rate of return that might reasonably have 
led to concern. 
When Miss T made the first payment, she was provided with a message that said 
she was sending funds to someone Monzo couldnt verify. I dont consider this 
confirmation of payee unable to match result affected Miss Ts reasonable basis for 
belief. The wording wasnt specific to investment scams, didnt explain the essential 
features of such a scam or of social media scams and didnt provide Miss T with any 
advice about how to avoid falling victim to such a scam. It simply said she may not 
get her money back if she was the victim of a scam. 
Miss T hadnt invested before, so I consider her actions were reasonable based on 
her level of experience. The amount she invested also wasnt huge compared with 
average investment amounts.
Although Miss T wasnt provided with a contract the group chat she has shared 
shows a contract was requested and W said one was being prepared. 
In its response to the investigators view Monzo provided information about the four 
companies Miss T was investing in and referred to the fact that first accounts were overdue 
and three of the companies didnt have a website. At the time Miss T invested though, the 
companies were being set up (they were incorporated on 20 July 2020) and so it wouldnt 
have been a red flag that they didnt have websites. And as the companies were new, 
accounts werent overdue at that stage. I cant say Miss T didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing the investment to be genuine based on information that has come to light after she 
made her payments. 
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss T? 
Im also mindful that when Miss T made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss T made were unusual or suspicious. 
The payments Miss T asked Monzo to make (for £800 and £200) were in line with what 
Monzo might reasonably have considered the normal operation of her account. I dont 
consider these were payments that should have particularly stood out to Monzo as being 
unusual or indicative of possible fraud. They were low in value and made around a week 
apart. In such circumstances, I find Monzo was obliged to make the payments in accordance 
with Miss Ts instructions and I do not find it at fault for having done so. This finding is 
relevant to when interest is payable from. 
Putting things right
Overall, I consider that under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the 
money Miss T lost as none of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. Its not clear how Miss T would have used the money if Monzo 
had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from the date Monzo declined Miss Ts claim 
to the date of payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and award Miss T £1,000 plus interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date Monzo Bank Ltd declined Miss Ts claim to the date of settlement (less any tax that is 
lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman