DRN-4502393
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited held an open claim under his van 
insurance policy which caused his premium to be higher at renewal. 
After bringing his complaint to this service, Ageas closed the claim as a fault claim which Mr 
B was unhappy about. Ageas agreed for us to look at how it reached its decision to settle the 
claim as it did. 
What happened
A third party (TP) made a claim against Mr Bs van insurance policy with Ageas. The TP said 
an independent witness (IW) told the TP they saw a van of the same description as Mr Bs 
collide into their car - got out of the van to check - and then drove off. The IW told the TP he 
believed the driver lived on the same road. 
Ageas opened a claim. Because the claim was still open when Mr Bs insurance was due for 
renewal, the claim had an impact on the premium offered. 
Ageas received statements from the TP and the IW. It arranged for an engineer to inspect 
Mr Bs van. In response, Mr B provided CCTV footage from his neighbour. He said he didnt 
collide with the TPs car. 
Ageas decided to settle the claim as a fault claim - so holding Mr B responsible for the 
damage to the TP car. It said the statements from the TP and IW along with the engineers 
report were persuasive and meant it would be difficult to defend if the claim went to court. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Ageas had 
properly investigated the claim. CCTV was available from a neighbour of the road and this 
showed similar vehicles as described travelling on the day of the incident. She couldnt see 
that Ageas had considered this evidence even though Mr B had provided it to them. 
The Investigator didnt think the engineers findings was enough to say the damage had 
been caused by Mr Bs van. And she asked Ageas if it had obtained a time of day when the 
incident occurred. Ageas confirmed it hadnt.
The Investigator recommended Ageas do the following: 
Remove the fault claim from Mr Bs insurance record.
Reimburse any additional premium Mr B has been charged as a result of the 
unfair liability decision.
To any amount outstanding, add eight per cent simple interest from the date Mr B 
was out of pocket to the date hes reimbursed.
Offer £300 in compensation for any upset and inconvenience caused.
Ageas didnt agree. 
Mr B accepted the Investigators findings but believes the compensation award should be 
more to reflect the impact the higher premium has had on him as a result of the way the 
claim has been settled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim is made, an insurer opens a claim against the policy and until it has been 
settled and all costs have been dealt with, it remains open. Until settled, the claim is 
recorded as a fault claim. This doesnt mean an insurer has decided the policyholder is at 
fault for the incident or necessarily intends to settle on that basis - but it is terminology used 
by insurers for claims where the costs have either been recovered (non-fault) or not yet 
recovered (fault). As Ageas has acted in line with insurance industry practice, I dont think it 
did anything wrong here. 
This can unfortunately affect a customers renewal premium, as it did for Mr B. If a claim is 
settled as a non-fault claim, where a customer has paid a higher premium, we expect an 
insurer to update the premium to reflect this so that a customer isnt out of pocket. But in this 
case, Ageas settled the claim as a fault claim. 
We dont decide liability. This is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an insurer 
has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. This is a subtle but important 
distinction to make. 
Mr Bs policy with Ageas says the following when settling claims:
In dealing with your claim, under the terms of this policy we may:
 defend or settle any claim and choose the solicitor who will act for you in any legal 
action; and
 take any legal action in your name or the name of any other person covered by this 
policy.
We can do any of these in your name or in the name of any person claiming under 
this policy. Anyone who makes a claim under this policy must give us any reasonable 
information we ask for.
This isnt an unusual term as Ive seen similar in most - if not all motor insurance policies. 
This means Ageas can make a decision which Mr B may disagree with, but the policy allows 
it. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an insurer can show it has treated a 
customer fairly when applying it. 
Ageas received two statements about the incident: one from the third party and one from an 
independent witness. The TP didnt witness the incident. The IW approached the TP and told 
them he had witnessed the incident. 
Ive looked at the statements provided. The IWs statement doesnt provide a description of 
the vehicle or the registration. The IW provided a description of the driver and a diagram to 
show his location and how the incident happened. The IW says he didnt see the driver leave 
the scene. 
The TPs statement provided a description and registration of the vehicle that collided with 
theirs, based on what they say the IW told them - as the TP didnt witness the incident. They 
say the IW told them he believed the van driver lived on the same road. 
The TP say they walked up the road the following day and - based on the description the IW 
gave them - identified Mr Bs van on his drive. And having taken a photo, then asked the IW 
if this was the van, which he agreed. On this basis, the TP provided the registration details 
and a photo of Mr Bs van in their statement. 
Mr B provided Ageas and this service with a number of video clips of vehicles on the road 
that day. I think there has been some confusion caused in the Investigators belief that 
footage of a vehicle similar to Mr Bs was his. I agree with Ageas that there doesnt seem to be any footage yet seen to show Mr Bs van - other than some CCTV from the neighbours 
drive which shows a very small section of a vehicle of the same colour as Mr Bs next door. 
But what I have found from only a small selection of CCTV footage provided is that there 
were a number of very similar vehicles that travelled back and forth on this road that day. Mr 
B denied being involved in the incident - and showed Ageas he had access to CCTV footage 
of the road for that day. The angle of the camera showed vehicles travelling right to left, so 
would have very likely shown the vehicle travelling from the incident, based on the IWs 
statement. 
It isnt clear to me why Ageas didnt ask for the time of the incident as this is an important 
part of a witness account. And had it done so, it could have investigated further to establish if 
Mr Bs van - or another vehicle - was in the location at that time. 
The engineer reported damage to Mr Bs van generally and said this wasnt unusual for its 
age and commercial use. The engineer said it was possible that Mr Bs van could have 
collided with the TP car. He reported that settling the claim seemed unavoidable if the IW 
was considered reliable by the court. 
However, putting all of the information together: the availability of CCTV showing similar 
vehicles to that as described but not obtaining the time of the incident to explore further - the 
information the TP said was passed to them by the IW, but not included in the IW statement, 
and the way in which the TP identified Mr Bs van, I dont find that Ageas properly 
investigated the claim. I think it should have done more before reaching its decision. 
As Ive said, we dont decide liability. But I dont think Ageas treated Mr B fairly when it 
investigated the claim. So I agree with the Investigators recommendations which Ive set out 
below. I think Ageas should pay Mr B £300 compensation to reflect the distress and the 
impact of the way it settled the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Update the recording of the claim to show as a non-fault claim on all databases 
and provide Mr B with a letter confirming the change in the recording of the claim. 
This will enable Mr B to show to his current or future insurers so it can calculate 
any difference in premium he has paid for insurance. 
If Mr B remained insured with Ageas, reimburse any additional premium Mr B has 
been charged as a result of the recording of the claim as a fault claim. 
To any amount outstanding - or if Mr B bought insurance with another insurer for 
more due to the recording of the claim - pay interest at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year from the date Mr B paid the difference to the date he is 
reimbursed, if reimbursement applies. 
Pay Mr B £300 in compensation for any upset and inconvenience caused.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman