DRN-3835300
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bede Financial Group Limited gave him incorrect information 
about when the next unit price adjustment was due to be made to the funds that his pension 
plan was invested in. 
What happened
Mr P set up a pension plan on advice from Bede in 2017. In my decision I will refer to the 
provider of the plan that Bede set up for Mr P as Firm A.
On advice from Bede, Mr P invested his pension plan into investment funds with Firm A. 
These funds were designed to smooth investment returns over the long to medium term. 
This smoothing process was designed to protect the value of Mr Ps pension from short term 
market volatility.
Firm A produced a guide called A step-by-step guide to the (Firm A)Fund smoothing 
process.  This guide explains that the smoothing process was achieved through Firm A 
setting what they called an expected growth rate (EGR). This was the annualised rate that 
Mr Ps pension would grow at. 
The EGR was set quarterly, on 25th February, May, August and November each year. The 
unit price for the funds held by Mr P would then increase each day in line with the EGR.
In order to account for short term price movements, Firm A could apply daily changes to the 
value of Mr Ps pension fund. These daily changes were called unit price adjustments. This 
allowed Firm A to either increase or decrease the unit price for Mr Ps pension fund if 
required. If Firm A decided that no adjustment was needed, then the unit price would 
continue to increase in line with the EGR. 
In addition to this daily review, Firm A also monitored and reviewed the unit price of Mr Ps 
pension funds every month. For the funds held by Mr P this review took place on 25th of 
each month and any changes made were also called unit price adjustments. Again, the unit 
price could be increased or decreased at each monthly review, or if Firm A determined that 
no action was needed, then no adjustment was made. 
In 2021 Mr P took advice from a different financial adviser to Bede. Mr Ps new adviser 
recommended that Mr P transfer his pension away from Firm A to a new pension provider, 
investing in new funds. Mr P decided to follow this advice and transfer his pension from Firm 
A through his new adviser. Bede would no longer be his financial adviser.
In mid-April 2021 Mr P emailed Bede and asked the following: Just an enquiry to see if you 
know if the (Firm A) funds are scheduled to make an adjustment, and if so when? It's just 
that I will be transferring the funds soon and I would like to know if it might be worth holding 
the transfer back a little longer or not.
In their reply email Bede said: The funds are reviewed on the 25th of each month with the 
next one due on 25th April. That falls on a Sunday so they will make an announcement on 
the 26th.
Mr P then contacted his new financial adviser to tell them that he had decided to delay the 
transfer of his pension from Firm A, in case a positive unit price adjustment was announced 
on 26 April.
No unit price adjustment was made by Firm A on 26 April 2021, therefore the unit price 
remained unchanged. Mr P subsequently contacted his new financial adviser to tell them to 
go ahead and complete the pension transfer for him.
The next monthly unit price adjustment review date was 25 May 2021, and at this review 
Firm A did make a unit price adjustment. Firm A increased the unit price. Mr P has said Bede 
should have told him that the next date for a unit price adjustment was 25 May 2021, and not 
25 April 2021. This is because Firm A didnt make a unit price adjustment at the April 2021 
review, but they did at the May 2021 review.
Mr P says that if he had known this then he would have delayed the transfer of his pension 
until after 25 May, when he would have benefited from the increase in the unit price of his 
pension funds.  
Mr P has also said that had he benefited from the unit price adjustment in May 2021, and 
seen this increase in the value of his pension plan, then he might have reconsidered his 
decision to transfer his pension away from Firm A.
Bede did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. They say that the information that they gave to Mr P 
was correct. Mr P didnt accept Bedes response and he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator in the Financial Ombudsman Service has reviewed Mr Ps complaint. They 
did not uphold the complaint. Mr P did not agree with the investigators conclusion and asked 
for his complaint against Bede to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P had taken advice from Bede on setting up and investing his pension plan with Firm A. 
However, in 2021 Mr P subsequently approached a new financial adviser and decided to 
follow their advice to transfer his pension plan from Firm A to a new pension provider, no 
longer investing in Firm As funds. Bede would also no longer be Mr Ps financial adviser. 
I have not seen any evidence to show that Bede were involved in providing any advice to Mr 
P about transferring his pension from Firm A, or in completing any administration on the 
pension transfer. I have also not seen any evidence that Bede were involved in advising Mr 
P on the timing of when he should go ahead and complete the transfer. 
I therefore think that it would be reasonable to think that all advice to Mr P in relation to transferring his pension from Firm A was given by Mr Ps new financial advisers, and not by 
Bede.
Mr P has said it was his decision to delay the pension transfer from Firm A and that he didnt 
ask Bede to provide him with any advice on whether he should delay the transfer or not. Mr 
P has further said that he made the decision to delay the transfer because investment 
markets were showing an improvement and he thought that if Firm A were to make a unit 
price adjustment, then this would be a positive adjustment.
Mr P asked Bede if you know if the (Firm A) funds are scheduled to make an adjustment, 
and if so when? Bede replied The funds are reviewed on the 25th of each month with the 
next one due on 25th April.
I think that Bedes reply was correct in that the monthly review of Mr Ps funds was made on 
25th of each month, which is in line with the information set out in Firm As step-by-step guide 
to the fund smoothing process. Mr Ps funds would have been subject to the details set out 
in this guide. I dont think that in their reply Bede were saying that Firm A would be making a 
unit price adjustment at the April review. Instead, I think that they were just saying when the 
next review was due.
As Mr P had contacted Bede in mid-April 2021, then I think that Bede were also correct in 
replying that the next review was due on 25 April 2021. Bede had further explained that as 
25 April 2021 fell on a Sunday, then the review would take place on 26 April 2021.
I also dont think that it would be reasonable for Bede to be able to predict if Firm A would 
make a unit price adjustment for Mr Ps funds, or make no change to the unit price, at the 
April 2021 review. 
Mr P has said that he delayed the pension transfer as he believed that if Firm A were to 
make a unit price adjustment, then it would be a positive one. However, in April 2021, Firm A 
didnt make a unit price adjustment.   
In his email to Bede in early April 2021 Mr P went on to say: It's just that I will be 
transferring the funds soon and I would like to know if it might be worth holding the transfer 
back a little longer or not. 
Bede were not advising Mr P to move his pension plan from Firm A. I therefore dont think 
its reasonable to expect them to have given any advice to Mr P on the timing of when he 
should complete the transfer process. 
I think that the decision on the timing to complete the pension transfer was made by Mr P. I 
have not seen any evidence to show that Mr P went back to Bede after 26 April 2021 to ask 
for any further information about the unit price adjustment review. Instead, he instructed his 
new advisers to proceed with his pension transfer.
I therefore think that the information that Bede sent to Mr P in their reply to his email of April 
2021 was correct. I think that Mr P had decided to delay his pension transfer until after the 
April 2021 unit price adjustment review date as he thought that Firm A would announce a 
positive unit price adjustment. As no unit price adjustment was announced at the April 2021 
review, Mr P subsequently instructed his new financial adviser to proceed with his pension 
transfer. 
Im therefore unable to uphold Mr Ps complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Bede Financial Group Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman