DRN-3030893
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs C and Mr F say Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs C and 
Mr Fs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs C and Mr Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs C and Mr Fs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs C and 
Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs C and Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Mrs C and Mr F havent suggested that it was 
added without their knowledge or consent. Their mortgage application form had a section 
for PPI which made it clear it was optional. Mrs C and Mr F ticked a box to say they 
wanted it and signed the completed form. They also completed a separate PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate specifically for the policy. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs C and Mr F so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mrs C and Mr Fs circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mrs C 
(who was the person covered under the policy) was eligible for the cover and they had 
limited means to fall back on, so they had a need for cover 
There was nothing about Mrs Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could have affected her ability to claim. Although Mrs C had experienced medical 
problems many years before the sale there is nothing to indicate she was still having 
problems or that they would not have been covered under the policy if they reoccurred. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs C and Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs C and Mr F as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs C and Mr F would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C and Mr F would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs C and Mr Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs C and Mr Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs C and Mr Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs C and Mr Fs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Fs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C and Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman