DRN-2974448
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, havent credited her account 
with the monthly £3 reward payment in March 2017.
What happened
In January 2021, Miss B raised a complaint with Halifax on the basis that shed been 
checking her statements and had noticed that her Reward Current Account hadnt been 
credited with a £3 reward payment in March 2017.
Halifax looked at Miss Bs complaint, but they confirmed that one of the criteria for the 
reward payment  that two direct debit payments leave the account in that month - hadnt 
been met. Because of this, Halifax didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that the criteria for the 
reward payment hadnt been met in the month in question, so they also didnt uphold Miss 
Bs complaint.
Miss B remained dissatisfied, so her complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The criteria for the reward payment clearly include that two direct debit payments must leave 
an account in a calendar month. In the month under consideration, that wasnt the case, and 
so the criteria for the reward payment wasnt met. As such, its very difficult for me to 
conclude that Halifax have acted in any way unfairly by not crediting Miss Bs account the £3 
monthly reward payment in this instance. 
Miss B has stated that the reason that two direct debits werent taken that month was 
because a double payment was taken the month before, which was Halifaxs fault. Im not 
convinced by Miss Bs argument here, and the reason I say this is that a direct debit is an 
instruction to a bank or building society to allow a third party to take funds from an account, 
on the instigation of that third party. 
As such, the reason that the double payment was taken was because it was taken by the 
third party, and I dont feel that Halifax can be considered as being responsible for this. And, 
while Miss B has stated that this wasnt her fault, I dont consider that it was Halifaxs fault 
either, and I wouldnt consider censuring Halifax for an action for which they were not at 
fault.
Miss B has also stated that she feels that Halifax are in breach of The Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulation 1999. However, this service isnt a regulatory body, and so 
it isnt within the remit of this service to assess whether a business has or hasnt abided by 
regulatory terms. If Miss B wishes to pursue this aspect of her complaint, I can only suggest 
that she does so by contacting the appropriate regulatory body. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that Halifax havent acted unfairly or unreasonably 
toward Miss B by not crediting her account with the £3 monthly reward payment for the 
month under consideration, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
asking Halifax to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman