DRN-2684086
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the value of his Scottish Equitable Plc pension quoted in their 
online portal. Mr A sought to transfer pensions from two other providers to his Scottish 
Equitable pension and claims that Scottish Equitable has lost one of them
What happened
Mr A joined his employers occupational pension scheme during his employment. In 
November 2016, his employer changed the scheme that was offered. The new scheme was 
with Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) and offered employees, including Mr A, the 
ability to look at their pension value online.
In February 2018, Mr A requested that two other pensions he held with two other pension 
providers be transferred to his Scottish Equitable pension plan. I will refer to these two 
pension providers as provider S and provider A. These requests were successful, and the 
online value was updated.
Mr A sought to take a lump sum from his pension in March 2020 of £16,000. This was paid, 
in September 2020, to Mr A and the remaining sum of £48,000 was transferred to a new 
product called a flexi-access drawdown wrapper. Mr A was given advice about taking a lump 
sum and the future consequences at the time.
Following the request for the lump sum, Scottish Equitable advised Mr A that the value of his 
pension was £82,576.20 as at 6 March 2020. Mr A queried this value. He stated that the 
online portal showed the total value of his pension to be £99,867.45. This was spilt between 
his employers pension (£82,863.45) and the transfer from his provider S pension plan 
(£17,004.00).
On 12 March 2020, Scottish Equitable emailed Mr A to advise that when the provider S 
transfer in occurred, the separate entry relating to it that he could see online should have 
been removed. The email went on to explain that Scottish Equitable were aware of the 
system issue and looking to resolve it. Mr A was given instructions on how to correct what 
was showing in his online account.
Mr A complained to Scottish Equitable about the error and value of his pension pot. On 13 
May 2020, Scottish Equitable emailed Mr A with their response. It explained that there was 
no error with the online system. What had occurred was that, in March 2016, Mr A had set 
up a prospect account online, to which he had added his provider S pension.  The 
prospect account allowed Mr A to add his other pension holdings. The values of the funds 
came from Mr A rather than figures provided by the pension provider. In November 2016, his 
employer pension was set up and, when activated, it merged with his existing prospect 
account as the employer pension and the prospect account were both from provider A. 
Thereafter, the transfers of his provider A and S pensions were added, but as the original 
entry for the provider S account had been created by Mr A, only he would be able to delete 
it. 
This email also explained that Scottish Equitable had taken longer than it would normally to 
respond to Mr As complaint. By way of apology for that delay, it had sent Mr A a hamper.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr A complained to this Service. An investigator looked into 
Mr As complaint and determined that the business had done nothing wrong or unfair. The 
view of the investigator was that they did not need to ask Scottish Equitable to take any 
further action. Mr A disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide any contradictory or conflicting evidence on the balance of probabilities. Which 
means whether it is more likely than not a thing did or did not happen or a fact is true or 
false.
Mr A, states that he did not enter any figures or information in the online portal. The 
prospect account Mr A holds was first opened in March 2016. This was prior to his 
employers pension scheme with Scottish Equitable in November 2016. 
Scottish Equitable stated that Mr A activated his online account linked with his employer 
pension in November 2016. Their records also show that Mr A added the provider S pension 
to his prospect account in March 2016. 
The online account offers a feature, allowing you to see all pensions held in one place. This 
is achieved by the consumer entering the details from other pensions. There is no 
suggestion that it is possible to pull this information from other providers accounts. 
Mr A claims that Scottish Equitable have lost his provider S pension. However, I do not 
agree. Mr A requested the transfer in of two pensions at the same time, one from provider S 
and the other from provider A. The provider A pension did not show in the account as a 
separate entry, nor would I expect it to. Once the transferred funds had been received they 
no longer represent a value in a provider S pension and therefore would not be shown as 
that providers funds. I am therefore satisfied that the amounts transferred in from Mr As 
provider A and provider S pensions was added to his Scottish Equitable pension value. It 
also follows that I am satisfied that Mr A did add the provider S pension to his online 
account, as this is the only way it could have shown separately.
When Mr A requested a lump sum, he was alerted to the difference in the value of his 
pension. While he complained, I note that he did not withdraw his lump sum request. In fact, 
following the final response from Scottish Equitable in May 2020, he was paid the lump sum 
in September 2020. The product information sheets provided by Scottish Equitable provide a 
warning If you are unsure of your options, we strongly recommend that you get financial 
advice.
Despite the difference in the value of the pension and the recommendations to obtain 
advice, Mr A took the decision to take a lump sum. I am therefore satisfied that he did so 
knowing that the value of his pension might not be the one that was shown to him online.
Following the request to take a lump sum, Scottish Equitable provided a statement detailing 
the amount of the lump sum, the value to be transferred to a flexi-access drawdown wrapper 
and the projected forecast for retirement. I find there was no ambiguity to this statement.While I appreciate the impact upon Mr A of not having the income he believed he would in 
retirement, I do not find that Scottish Equitable have made a mistake in the value of Mr As 
pension, nor that this in any case influenced his decision to take the lump sum. Scottish 
Equitable admitted there had been delay in responding to Mr A. Mr A was sent a hamper 
and in this instance, I consider that to be proportionate. I do not consider Scottish Equitable 
needs to take further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Dharmesh Patel
Ombudsman