DRN-3301140
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly declined a claim made under a pet insurance policy.
What happened
When Miss A opened her front door to put out some recycling, her dog ran out the door. 
Miss A tried to catch the dog, but he thought she was playing and he ran into the road and 
was hit by a car. The dog was treated by a vet and Miss A contacted Red Sands to make an 
insurance claim.
Red Sands declined the claim. It quoted four sections of the policy and said she hadnt met 
one of them. When Miss A complained, Red Sands maintained its decision to decline the 
claim and Miss A hadnt taken all reasonable steps to prevent escape.
So, Miss A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the 
dog had only been able to escape when the front door had been opened by Miss A. He 
didnt think the dog escaping should have been foreseen and there was nothing to suggest 
Miss A hadnt taken reasonable steps to prevent him doing so. He said Red Sands should 
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
As Red Sands didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold this complaint. I said:
When Red Sands declined the claim, it quoted four of the General Conditions in the policy:
10.1.1 which quoted section 27 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 about dogs and designated 
roads.
10.1.2 which was about walking pets in areas other than a designated road.
10.1.3 which was about leads, collars and harnesses being in good condition.
10.1.4 which was about ensuring pets couldnt escape or stray from the owners property.
The letter then said the claim had been declined as a result of one of the above conditions 
not being met, but didnt say which one.
When Miss A complained, Red Sands said the claim had been declined because 10.1.4 
hadnt been complied with. Looking at what happened, 10.1.4 seems to be the only part of 
the General Conditions that was relevant. I havent seen anything to suggest the other terms 
Red Sands quoted were relevant as Miss A wasnt walking the dog and hadnt deliberately 
let the dog out of the house.
10.1.4 said: You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any 
area in which a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured 
and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape.
While I was looking at this case, Miss A provided some more information about her dog. She 
said he was a puppy and he would follow Miss A around the house. He did try and get out of 
the front door, but Miss A was training him.
The dog was injured when it got out of the house and was hit by a car. The only part of the 
policy I can see that this would be covered by is the vet fees section for treatment due to 
accident, illness or disease. From, what Ive seen, this would generally be considered an 
accident. But I note the policy said Accident means a sudden, unforeseen, and unintended 
event causing injury to your pet.
The dog had previously tried to get out the door and he followed Miss A around the house. 
Although I think what happened was sudden and unintended, I currently think it was 
foreseeable that the dog might try and escape through the door when Miss A went outside. I 
also havent currently seen anything to show Miss A had taken any steps to prevent the dog 
from escaping from the house or that the area in which he was kept was secure, although 
Im aware she was training him and I accept it was necessary for Miss A to open the door to 
go outside. So, thinking about all of the above, I currently think it was reasonable for Red 
Sands to apply the exclusion at 10.1.4 in order to decline the claim and that it doesnt need 
to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 21 February 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Red Sands confirmed it received the decision, but didnt provide any comments.
Miss A said she couldnt have predicted what happened and she was appalled that I had 
sided with a large company like Red Sands. She said Red Sands had made money out of an 
innocent party that had paid to keep their dog safe and protected by taking out insurance. 
Miss A said she couldnt have prevented what happened that day. It was unpredicted/ 
unforeseen, accidental and devastating. She said he was six-month old puppy and 
questioned how many puppies didnt follow their owners around or were playful. 
Miss A said he had followed her to the front door, but never escaped before or been in an 
accident. She said the dog was kept in the house and that she presumed a front door was 
secure enough to prevent escape. Her drive wasnt fenced off, but the dog wasnt kept on 
the driveway.
Miss A said she hadnt asked Red Sands to pay the full costs, just the first lot of hospital/ 
medical fees. She said she had been told by vets that road traffic accidents are always 
covered by the insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I can understand Miss As strong views and I have considered these 
carefully, along with the other evidence and comments previously received. However, Im not 
persuaded to change my view on this case. 
I agree that the policy covers accidents, but the issue is whether it was reasonable for Red 
Sands to apply an exclusion. In this instance, I think it was, as I havent seen evidence of 
steps to secure the dog or to prevent him escaping when the front door was opened. As a result, I think it was reasonable for Red Sands to decline the claim and I dont require it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman