DRN-1698846
The complaint
Mr T complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of a claim following a motor 
accident.
What happened
Mr T had motor insurance with UKI and made a claim when his car was involved in an 
accident. UKI decided to settle the claim by paying him the cars market value, valuing the 
car at £700. 
Mr T told UKI he believed the car was worth £3,000 to £4,000, and UKI increased the 
valuation to £925. It explained that, when calculating a cars value, it had used motor vehicle 
valuation guides to provide a base valuation. This valuation was then adjusted to take 
account of the mileage and condition of the car, and to make allowances for non-standard 
options. It explained the revised sum of £925 was based on additional information Mr T had 
given, and it provided details explaining how the revised valuation had been calculated.
Mr T complained to this service. He explained the car was a hybrid, that it was fuel efficient, 
economical to run, and a valuable asset to his family. H also said the car was well 
maintained, had regular services, an MOT certificate, tax and insurance and a clean leather 
interior. He said the car could have been used for another five years without any problem 
and would be difficult to replace. And he explained he was struggling to deal with the familys 
daily obligations without a car and that this had resulted in significant financial loss.
Our investigator concluded UKIs valuation of £925 was fair. She said the MOT was showing 
online as having expired on 21 December 2018, almost a year before the accident, and that 
when a car doesnt have an up to date MOT certificate, a small deduction from the market 
value was reasonable. She also noted £480 was deducted from UKIs base valuation of 
£1,545 because of pre-existing damage. And she was satisfied that it was fair for UKI to 
have made this deduction. 
Mr T was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and so he asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. He thought the investigator should have independently assessed the 
value of the car, rather than commenting on whether UKIs valuation was fair. He said hed 
used an independent website which put the value to the car at around £3,000, and that if our 
investigator used an alternative tool, it would show a value well above UKIs offer. He also 
argued the real value of a car isnt just based on mileage, and cars that are not regularly 
serviced will lose performance and value. And hes suggested that as an alternative option, 
he would accept the car being repaired and returned to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the circumstances, Im satisfied UKIs decision to offer the market value 
of the car was reasonable. The policy states if your car is damaged, we have the option to 
pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves; replace what is lost or damaged, if 
this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or settle your claim by sending you a cheque or 
by bank transferwe will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the 
loss. This allows UKI to choose how to settle the claim. And UKI thought the cost of repair 
was more than the cars market value, so it chose to pay Mr T the cars market value instead 
of repair it. I think it was fair for it to choose to do that. Further, UKIs record indicates Mr T 
said he didnt feel safe driving the ca and gave his authorisation for the it to be disposed of, 
so, as it offered the market value of the car, Im satisfied UKI was entitled to dispose of it.
Mr T believed the car was worth more than £925. Hes explained it was mostly used to 
commute, and for social activities, and that the average mileage was 11,000 miles per year. 
Its not our role to value Mr Ts car. Rather, we assess whether UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonably. The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing your car with another of 
the same make and model of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
UKI has valued the car by using the trade guides and its fair that it does so because this is 
based on a review of advertised prices for similar cars for sale at the time of the accident.
Ive considered the position regarding the MOT and while Mr T hasnt produced any 
evidence, hes said the car did have an up to date MOT certificate. In the circumstances, I 
think its most likely the car did have an up to date MOT certificate, otherwise he wouldnt 
have been able to tax the car, and Ive taken that into account in my consideration of this 
complaint. 
However, Im satisfied UKIs base valuation of £1,545 was taken from one of the leading 
motor vehicle valuation guides and, as this is higher than any of the three base valuations 
(£1,375, £1,060 and £1,083) obtained by our investigator, Im satisfied that was fair. Mr T 
has said he used an independent website which valued their car at £3,000, but he hasnt 
given us anything to support this. 
UKI deducted £480 to reflect the condition of the car. Its explained this was based on a 
proportion of the cost of repairing damage to the front bumper, the rear bumper, the rear 
passenger panel and the front wing. There was also corrosion and rust. As the guides have 
given a range of £1,060 - £1,375, I dont think £925 is an unfair valuation.
Mr T believes there are other factors that affect the value of a car, and I accept thats right. 
But its my role to assess whether UKIs valuation of the market value of the car was fair, for 
the reasons outlined above, Im satisfied it was. Consequently, Im also satisfied the cash 
settlement was fair.
I understand the impact not having a car has had on Mr T, but this wasnt due to any failing 
on UKIs part therefore I cant ask it to compensate him for any distress, inconvenience or 
financial loss hes suffered as a result of not having a car.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman