DRN-4194424
The complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital) irresponsibly issued a credit card to 
him, for which he couldnt afford the payments. In particular he says it failed to take into 
account his gambling problems which it was aware of. He also complains that Capital failed 
to freeze or refund interest on his first credit card after he informed B of huis financial 
problems.
What happened
Mr W was provided with a credit card by Capital in November 2019, with a £500 credit limit 
(Card 1). In September 2020 he successfully applied for a second credit card.(Card 2) This 
had a £200 limit on it and was active until January 2021, and has since not been used.
In October 2020 Mr W emailed Capital to advise it that he was in financial difficulties 
because of a gambling problem He was receiving therapy and assistance from a charity that 
helps with addiction. Capital agreed to block the card from being able to make cash 
transactions and not to increase the credit limit.
In October 2021 Mr W applied for, and was provided with, a third credit card (Card 3). This 
card had a credit limit of £1,250, which again hasnt been increased. He complained to 
Capital in July 2022. He believed that the card shouldnt have been issued to him. He was 
still having problems with gambling and he said Capital didnt ask for any details of this. He 
pointed out that there had been lots of cash withdrawals on his original card. During this time 
he also had multiple other credit cards and a default for a credit card registered against his 
name with a bank. He has supplied copies of his bank statements for the three months prior 
to this application.
Capital said that it was only after reviewing the information provided by him and third party 
Credit Reference Agencies that it decided what level of credit would be affordable for Card 3. 
Mr W declared that he was employed with a salary of £48,500. Other debt commitments 
were recorded on the credit file at the time. These included hire purchase agreements, 
outstanding credit card debt and other borrowing, and housing costs declared on his 
application. An estimate of other non-discretionary expenditure was made based on Office 
for National Statistics (ONS) data. Based on those checks and data it decided the card 
payments would be affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our Investigator said that, with the information it 
had concerning Mr Ws gambling problems and the block on cash payments put on the first 
credit card, Capital should have carried out further checks. However she reviewed Mr Ws 
bank statements for the period prior to Card 3 being issued but couldnt see a reason why 
Capital needed to compensate him for its decision to give him Card 3, or refund any interest 
and charges it applied on Card 1.
Mr W disagreed and said that Capital hadnt taken account of his full financial circumstances 
 in particular that he said he had more loan accounts and credit cards than Capital would 
have known about, that it should have been alerted by the large amount of cash withdrawals 
on Card 1 and he had very little disposable income (less than £75 each month).
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mr Ws complaint.
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Capital complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Capital ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ws indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
credit card 1
Mr W was issued with this card in November 23019, with a credit limit of £500 (which wasnt 
increased). In December 2019, then again in the months from June 2020 until the end of 
September 2020, Mr W made a number of withdrawals of cash, up to £250 at a time. But the 
account was well managed, with the monthly payment being made on time each month.  I 
also note that up until April 2020 when gambling on credit cards was stopped, no gambling 
transactions were made.
In October 2020. Mr W emailed Capital to say he was in financial difficulties largely due to a 
gambling problem. Theres no written response but Mr W has told us that a telephone 
conversation took place at this time whereby Capital agreed to put a block on any cash 
transactions and not to increase the credit limit. 
It appears that Mr W spoke to an agent on 20 October 2021, when it was recorded that he:
 said he wanted to remove the cash block on the card. Agent asked if [Mr W] is no longer 
struggling with gambling. [He] said his situation has improved. [He] also wanted to 
consolidate his cards. 
It appears that it was agreed that that the cash block would be removed. It wasnt and Mr W 
had cause to complain about that as a result of which he agreed to accept a £50 payment for distress and inconvenience. Having said that I cant see that he made any further cash 
withdrawals on this card. The account continued to be well maintained. 
Under the Consumer Credit (CONC) Rules contained in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook, CONC 7.3.6 says:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
Whilst freezing and or repayment of interest are certainly remedies Capital could have 
provided, it was mindful of  his problems which appeared to be linked to cash withdrawals 
and stopped those. When he contacted it a year later he told it his situation had improved 
and it agreed to remove the block. I also understand that Mr W has taken steps himself to 
block gambling transactions through online services that enabled him to do this. I think 
Capitals actions were reasonable in respect of this card.
credit card 2
No complaint was made concerning this card.
credit card 3
Mr W applied for this card in October 2021. I believe he took out this card to take advantage 
of a balance transfer preferential interest rate and he did immediately transfer £1,000 to the 
card.  At the time, Capital carried out a credit check, which showed:
Four active credit cards and outstanding balances on four accounts of £3,522 (including 
Card 1). 
A hire purchase agreement taken out in June 2021 with a monthly payment of £606.
A loan with a fixed monthly repayment of £24. 
Non-revolving unsecured credit balances totalling £24,514.
A default balance of £4,216 on an account which defaulted in 2017.
Mr W declared an income of £48,500, which looks right against the income appearing on his 
bank statements. Capital assessed his outgoings by applying ONS data, usually 35% of the 
net income. Allowing for 5% payments the credit cards each month and the active loan 
payments shown on the credit check, the payments for the card looked to be affordable. 
Mr W took out another loan shortly before applying for the card, but as that was in 
September 2021, it didnt appear on Capitals check. And I cant attribute any blame to 
Capital for that as often credit reference agency records can take several weeks to update. 
Mr W also points out that in respect of the default balance he was only paying £30 a month 
which meant the debt would have taken him 16 years to pay back, and Capital should have 
taken account of this. I note though that this was a historic debt and that at the time of the 
application Mr W had no more defaults on his record. I dont think that was a bar to providing 
credit on a credit card. He had taken out loans for much higher amounts and was keeping up 
with the payments.
However I do think that in issuing the card Capital should have contacted Mr W because of the actions it had taken regarding his gambling and associated financial problems. Capital 
has advised us that if a customer has a vulnerability recorded and applies for a further card, 
it will be referred to an agent check manually, and the customer will be given an opportunity 
to cancel the card. I cant see that this was done in this case.
I refer to my comments above  did Capital complete reasonable and proportionate checks? 
In in light of the information it already had about Mr W I dont think it did. I think additional 
checks should have involved a review of his existing account, a check on Mr Ws income 
and expenditure and a follow up with Mr W about his gambling problems.
From Mr Ws use of Credit Card 1, bearing in mind that no cash withdrawals were made 
after September 2020 Mr W did appear to have been managing the account well. I 
appreciate that any obvious gambling transactions would have been blocked but equally 
there were no payments which might have been construed as gambling, such as payments 
through an online payments service.
For Mr Ws income and expenditure Capital could have checked Mr Ws bank statements. 
Having looked at those myself, I cant see any gambling transactions. The account includes 
all the normal payments to utilities, rent, council tax etc, and his loan and credit card 
payments. And the account was kept in credit for those three months
As Ive said Mr W wasnt contacted directly about this application, but he spoke to Capital 
about his other card the day after this card was issued, as Ive noted above. Its likely that if it 
had followed its procedures and contacted Mr W manually he would have told it his situation 
had improved. And as he wanted to use the card for a balance transfer he would have been 
unlikely to say he couldnt afford the card. So if it was willing to unblock cash transactions on 
the other card, its likely that if those additional checks had been done Capital would still 
have approved the card and assessed that the repayments on the card were affordable.
I think that in the circumstances of this case, Capital acted reasonably in respect of Mr Ws 
problems for Card 1 and made a reasonable lending decision in respect of Card 3. 
My final decision
 I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman