DRN-4395965
The complaint
Mr G complains that Covea Insurance plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in late September 
2021 to a company that is still its registered keeper.
From February 2022, Mr G took the car on a rental agreement from the company. 
He took out a motor policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Covea was 
the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim.
Mr G and Covea renewed the policy for the year from February 2023.
Unfortunately, in mid-April 2023, Mr G reported to Covea that an incident had damaged the 
car.
In mid-May 2023, Covea learned that Mr G had the car on a rental agreement, and that he 
wasnt its registered keeper.
By a letter dated mid-June 2023, Covea said that the policy was void, that it wouldnt pay the 
claim and that it would refund Mr Gs payments of premium.
Mr G complained to Covea that it should meet his claim.
By a final response dated late July 2023, Covea turned down his complaint.
Mr G brought his complaint to us straight away.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
actions Covea took were in line with Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He wants to see why it took so long for this to get resolved in the first place.
He wants to understand why his car cannot be fixed because he had insurance for 
over a year and now hes been quoted to pay £11,000.00. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIDRA imposes a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. If the consumer carelessly makes a 
misrepresentation which makes a difference to the insurer, then the misrepresentation is 
qualifying under CIDRA. 
If the misrepresentation led the insurer to offer cover when it wouldnt otherwise have done 
so, then CIDRA gives the insurer the remedy of treating the policy as void and declining any 
claim.
Mr G went online and took out the policy. From the statement of insurance, Im satisfied that 
the website asked him a clear question as follows:
Are you the registered keeper of the vehicle?
And Mr G answered Yes
That answer wasnt correct. The rental company owned the vehicle and was its registered 
keeper.
Mr G had entered into a written agreement headed Rental Agreement. So Im not satisfied 
that he took reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation that he was the registered 
keeper.
I accept Coveas evidence that its underwriting criteria were that it wouldnt have offered 
cover if Mr G had said he wasnt the registered keeper. 
It took Covea from mid-April 2023 until mid-June 2023 to investigate and to make a decision. 
However, Covea had to wait until mid-May 2023 to get the information and documents from 
the rental company. Covea then had to make a decision. So I dont consider that Covea was 
responsible for any unreasonable delay.
I accept Coveas decision that Mr G had made a misrepresentation which was qualifying 
under CIDRA and which gave Covea the remedies of treating the policy as void and 
declining his claim.
I dont consider that Covea treated Mr G unfairly by applying those remedies. 
So  whilst I dont under-estimate the scale of Mr Gs financial loss - I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Covea to reinstate the policy or to deal with his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Covea Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman