DRN-2558803
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) shouldnt have marked his credit file.
What happened
Mr O had a current account with HSBC. In July 2018, they told him they would close his 
account. He tried to pay in £350. These credits were returned. The account was closed in 
September 2018. A default was registered, and the debt transferred to a debt collection 
agency. Mr O repaid the debt in July 2020.
Mr O complained. He didnt dispute that HSBC could close his account. But he said a default 
shouldnt be registered because hed tried to pay in £350 to his account  which HSBC 
wouldnt accept. And hed called HSBC and they said he could pay into his account and the 
debt would be reduced. And he didnt receive HSBCs letter dated 21 July 2018 until after 
hed tried to pay in money on 23 July 2018 and 26 July 2018.
HSBC said they had the right to close Mr Os account in line with their terms and conditions. 
Theyd given him notice to make other banking arrangements.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service. Two investigators looked at what had happened. 
They said that HSBC had the right to close accounts if they wished. They had asked Mr O 
for repayment proposals but didnt get any. When they wrote to Mr O giving him notice that 
his account was to be closed, they advised Mr O not to pay into his account. A final demand 
was sent to Mr O in August 2018. This said the debt would be advised to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). Even though Mr O had then repaid the debt, the CRA would show the 
debt as satisfied with a zero balance  but this would remain on Mr Os credit file for six 
years. HSBC had acted correctly in advising the debt to the CRAs.
Mr O asked that his complain be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr O is coming from. He was told by HSBC that he must close his account 
 and he doesnt dispute that HSBC could do this. But he says he didnt get HSBCs letter 
about this until after hed tried to pay in £350 towards the debt of approximately £1951 - in 
July 2018. So  he says  if HSBC had accepted these credits, they wouldnt have 
registered his default on his credit file. He also says that he called HSBC and they told him 
they would accept the credits.
There is conflicting evidence here. HSBC say they have no record of these calls. Where the 
information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I must base 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not to have 
happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
Looking at what happened here  HSBC took the decision to close Mr Os account. This is 
not the basis of Mr Os complaint. But its worth noting that HSBC could do this  its within 
their terms and conditions. They wrote to Mr O on 21 July 2018 and said they would close 
his account. The letter said Mr Os account was suspended, and no debits would be paid  
and Mr O was asked not to pay into his account. HSBC made demand for repayment on 27 
July 2018  this said that a default would be registered if the debt wasnt repaid within seven 
days  and that Mr Os credit file would be marked. A final demand for repayment was sent 
on 20 August 2018 for £2157.92  and this said the CRAs had been notified.
Mr O has showed us a screenshot of his other bank account. This shows he made transfers 
of £100 on 23 July 2018 and £250 on 26 July 2018. The receiving bank account isnt shown 
but hes told us it was to his HSBC account. His HSBC statement doesnt show these entries 
 as they were returned by them. I think its quite likely that Mr O wouldnt have received the 
letter dated 21 July 2018 by the time he attempted the first transfer. But  I think its 
reasonable to assume he would have got it by the time of the second transfer. So  Ive 
thought more about the transfer of £100 on 23 July 2018.
Ive looked at HSBCs terms and conditions  they say We can refuse to accept a payment 
into your account if its reasonable for us to do so for any reason So  even if Mr O hadnt 
got HSBCs letter by the time of the first transfer attempt, HSBC couldve refused the credit 
anyway.
Ive then thought about what would have happened if HSBC had accepted the credits to Mr 
Os account. Theyd already made the decision to close his account  so this wouldnt 
change. And theyd made demand for repayment of the full balance on 27 July 2018. I can 
see from Mr Os statements that the balance then was £1951.41 debit  so the credits of 
£350 wouldnt have repaid the debt or satisfied HSBCs demand for repayment anyway. So -
its likely that nothing wouldve changed.
Mr O showed us his phone statements. These show some calls to HSBC  including one on 
25 July. Weve asked HSBC for the calls Mr O says he made to them. They told us they 
cant trace them  weve seen evidence that this is the case. So  unfortunately, I cant take 
this into consideration.
Mr O repaid the debt in July 2020. He says that this should mean that the marker on his 
credit file should be removed. Im afraid that isnt the case  HSBCs letter dated 23 July 
2020 says that his file will be updated to show a balance of nil and marked as satisfied. This 
is correct. All lenders, including HSBC, must record accurate information at the CRAs  and 
thats what theyve done here. Its up to other lenders to decide how they interpret that 
information.
I can see that Mr O feels strongly about what happened. So, I know hell be disappointed by 
my decision  but I wont be asking HSBC to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman