DRN-3236062
The complaint
Mr L says that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted irresponsibly by 
allowing him to increase his overdraft limit to £3,000. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns and didnt think there was anything 
within the credit checks that should have led to Halifax questioning the lending and didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. 
Mr L disagreed, he says if Halifax had looked at his bank statements it wouldve seen large 
amounts of spending on gambling and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just to be clear this decision only deals with Mr Ls complaint about his overdraft and 
increased limit. I havent looked at any other credit provided to Mr L by Halifax. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ls complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr L 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Halifax did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ls overdraft. Mr L was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks Halifax carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr L would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Halifax says Mr L had an initial overdraft of £200 in August 2016 which increased to £3,000 
by August 2017. No further increases were approved.  All overdraft limit increase 
applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Mr L provided about his 
income and how Mr L had managed his accounts held with it, as well as information held by 
other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information 
Halifax was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft facility and 
limit he requested.
I accept that Mr Ls financial position may well have been worse than the credit check carried 
out showed or in any information he disclosed to Halifax at the time. And it is possible that 
further checks might have told Halifax this. But Halifax was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
credit check it carried out. And given there wasnt any adverse information shown on the 
credit check, or significant outstanding debts elsewhere and the account showed a credit 
balance on a monthly basis with regular transfers in, I think Halifaxs checks went far 
enough. 
So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. Mr L says Halifax shouldve seen the numerous gambling transactions leaving 
his account. But just having a cursory look at Mr Ls statements it shows that the gambling 
only increased after Halifax had approved the maximum limit of £3k and up until that point 
most months Mr L brought his account into credit. 
So I dont agree that Halifax acted irresponsibly by allowing Mr L to increase his overdraft 
limit. Halifax carried out the appropriate credit check on Mr L and were entitled to rely on the 
information provided to it when assessing Mr Ls overdraft applications. And given the credits 
going into the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to conclude Mr L 
would be able to repay the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Halifax provided Mr L with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Ls overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, Halifax 
still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr L if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ls account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr L was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr L fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr L unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr Ls statements I cant see anything to suggest that Halifax 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
I accept that Mr L was using his overdraft regularly. But it is clear that funds were going into 
the account which reduced the outstanding balance and at times brought it into credit. 
Equally while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Ls 
expenditure, nonetheless the transactions leaving the account were non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary.  
Furthermore, the amount being credited to Mr Ls account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves mean that Mr L wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted Halifax to any potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did until Mr L got in touch. And I dont think that 
Halifax treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman