DRN-4192460
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited incorrectly recorded a default on his credit card account 
and that this information had a significant impact on his mortgage plans.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr B became aware of several fraudulent transactions on his credit card 
account and contacted MBNA. Mr B was told that the fraudulent transactions had been 
flagged, but MBNA went on to register a default on the credit card account. Mr B contacted 
MBNA in December 2022 and complained that when he applied for a joint mortgage the 
application had been declined due to adverse credit information. Mr B said his new lender 
would only provide a reduced mortgage in the name of his wife and that he had to raise 
additional funds by selling shares.
MBNA upheld Mr Bs complaint and said it should have done more to ensure the balance 
didnt stay on Mr Bs card account as this resulted in a default being registered. MBNA 
apologised and offered to pay Mr B £100 for the inconvenience this had caused in relation to 
the mortgage application. MBNA has since corrected Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought MBNA should pay Mr B £400 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience its error caused Mr B.
Mr B asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA accepts it should have done more to prevent Mr Bs credit card account being 
defaulted. So, my decision will focus on what is a fair and reasonable remedy in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
MBNA believes Mr B should have told it of his new address much sooner than he did as it 
had sent a new card to his old address and suggest this may have contributed to the 
fraudulent activity. Ive considered this, and although I think Mr B should have updated 
MBNA sooner, Mr B did contact MBNA as soon as he realised there was fraudulent activity 
on his card account - in December 2021  and MBNA notes confirm it accessed Mr Bs 
account using his old address. The account notes provided show that after December 2021 
letters it sent to Mr Bs old address were being returned as gone away, so its more likely 
than not MBNA hadnt changed the address at the earliest opportunity. Regardless of this, 
MBNA went on to register the default after Mr B had reported the fraudulent transactions, 
and ultimately didnt take steps to remove the outstanding card balance that led to the 
default being registered. And, because I havent seen any evidence MBNA notified Mr B of 
the default to his new address, Im satisfied it would have been a shock when Mr B found out 
what had happened.
Mr B says hes suffered a financial loss and inconvenience as a consequence of the default 
being registered - he had to sell shares to assist his wife in securing a reduced mortgage, 
and the property he intended purchasing in joint names is now in his wifes name only. Mr B 
provided documents supporting that he sold shares and a letter from his mortgage adviser 
confirming the mortgage  and the property - is in Mr Bs wifes name only. 
I think its fair and reasonable for me to conclude that the adverse credit information MBNA 
recorded significantly disrupted Mr Bs plans to purchase the property in joint names. Ive no 
doubt Mr B was shocked when the joint mortgage application was declined, and he was 
caused some significant inconvenience when the purchase of the property had to be 
completed in his wifes name only. Any remedy needs to reflect this loss of opportunity and 
the shock and inconvenience this caused Mr B.
Regardless of the declined joint mortgage, Mr B and his wife decided to purchase the 
property in Mr Bs wifes name. As Mr Bs wife could only borrow a reduced amount, further 
funding was required to complete the purchase and Mr B decided to cash in some shares to 
fund this. From the information Mr B has provided, I think its more likely than not he sold 
shares at a lower price than he bought them - and at a time when he didnt want to sell them. 
Mr B say he intends transferring the property into joint names and taking out a new 
mortgage in joint names, as this was always his intention. I cant be sure how much this re-
mortgage would be for, nor can I be sure whether Mr B will decide to re-purchase the shares 
he encashed to assist with the purchase  that will be a decision for Mr B in the future  but 
the current share price of the shares Mr B sold is now lower than the price he sold them at. If 
Mr B and his wife did re-mortgage for the intended amount, which Mr B suggests is likely to 
be the case, then its likely he may be able to re-purchase the shares he sold at the same 
price or lower than when they were sold. Buying and selling shares will always carry a 
financial risk and I think it would be unfair and unreasonable  and too speculative - for me 
to decide that the actions of MBNA were responsible for any loss on the shares Mr B sold.
Mr B says MBNAs is indirectly responsible for the lender who declined the joint mortgage 
recording details of the failed application on his credit file. This is really matter between Mr B 
and the mortgage lender as Im satisfied MBNA has now done what it needed to correct the 
information on Mr Bs credit file. I cant consider the actions of the mortgage lender and what 
it recorded on Mr Bs credit file in this complaint, but Mr B can ask for a notice of correction 
to be added to his credit file if he wants prospective creditors to be aware of the 
circumstances surrounding an entry that might affect a future credit application. Mr B does 
subscribe to a credit reference agency, although many Banks and other institutions now offer 
free credit score information, and he may want to apply to add a notice of correction that 
provides an explanation of what happened to a prospective lender.
Im satisfied MBNAs failure to remove the outstanding balance on Mr Bs credit card  which 
led to a default and missed payments being recorded on his credit file  caused Mr B 
significant distress and inconvenience and meant that Mr B missed the opportunity of 
purchasing a property in joint names with his wife. Ive seen evidence that MBNA has 
corrected Mr Bs credit file, but this took longer than it should have as it initially didnt remove 
the missed payment markers it had recorded. To reflect the significant distress and 
inconvenience of having to change his plans to purchase the property in joint names  which 
likely took a lot of effort to sort out  Ive decided that MBNA should pay Mr B £400.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, MBNA Limited should pay Mr B £400 to settle the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman