DRN-2925891
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about Acasta European Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
reject a claim she made against her accidental damage furniture care policy. 
What happened
Mrs L bought a sofa and chairs in 2018 and bought a furniture care policy at the same time. 
In December 2020 Mrs L made a claim under the policy for damage to one of the chairs 
which she said had occurred at around March 2020. She said shed had trouble contacting 
Acasta and the retailer to discuss it. In December 2020 Acasta sent Mrs L a care kit to see if 
this would remove the stain. But it didnt work and so Acasta arranged for a technician to 
come to Mrs Ls home and inspect the damage. 
In January 2021 the technician reported that the damage wasnt accidental and so it wasnt 
covered under the policy. The technician advised that the damage had been caused by head 
oil over a period of time. 
Unhappy with the decision, Mrs L raised a complaint with Acasta. But in January 2021 
Acasta said the decision to reject the claim was correct. 
Mrs L didnt agree and so she asked us to look at her complaint. She said she rarely uses 
the chair in question and when she does, she has a cushion in the place where her head 
rests. Mrs L said she doesnt use oils on her head. So she said it isnt possible for the 
damage to have been caused in the way the technician advised. Mrs L said when she 
bought the sofa and chairs, she was told by the retailer than everything would be covered 
under the furniture care policy.
In June 2021 our investigator thought Acasta had highlighted that the policy didnt provide 
cover for every eventuality. And he found the technicians report persuasive as to the cause 
of damage. So he didnt recommend Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She then explained that her husband had used an oily cloth from the car 
to try and rub out the mark. She hadnt mentioned this before as she thought it wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. For this reason, Mrs L believes the damage couldnt have been 
caused by head oil over time. 
Our investigator put Mrs Ls comments to Acasta. Acasta said it wouldnt change the 
outcome. It said the technician found that the damage had been due to oil or grease having 
been absorbed in through the top coat of the leather fabric. Over time the oils cause the 
leather to break down and peel. So Acasta said the damage couldnt have been caused by a 
one off event. So it wasnt covered under the policy. 
Our investigator issued a second view to both parties and didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mrs L wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ls furniture care policy says it will provide cover in the event of accidental damage. It 
sets out that it wont provide cover for damage caused by wear and tear. 
The technician who examined the damage to Mrs Ls sofa chair carried out a heat test. This 
drew out oil from the leather fabric for the technician to be able to identify the cause of the 
damage.
Ive looked at the photos provided by Mrs L and Ive carefully considered what she told us. 
But as Acasta has provided a report from an expert to show the area in question was tested 
and a cause of damage identified  there isnt anything to show that the damage was caused 
by a one off accidental event. 
I understand Mrs L will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Acasta acted 
unreasonably when it decided to decline Mrs Ls claim. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman