DRN-3775464
The complaint
Mr and Ms S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined their claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to their purchase of solar panels.
Mr and Ms S are represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2017, Mr and Ms S were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Ms S decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Ms Ss behalf under 
sections 56 and 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Ms S to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would pay for itself within the loan term;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Mr and Ms S also complains about the systems performance, as they say it has been 
generating less energy than the installer said it would at the point of sale.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Ms S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Ms S. But he did think that the system was not performing as it should, 
and so on that basis he upheld this complaint. P subsequently calculated that Mr and Ms S 
were due a refund of £158.49.
The CMC didnt accept the adjudicators view but did not provide any further comments. So 
as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicators opinion and for broadly the same reasons.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Ms S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Ms S could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Ms S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
The CMC has also relied on section 140A, which is about unequal relationships between the 
parties to a credit agreement. In this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation 
of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
The quote
Shawbrook has provided the pack it says the installer provided to Mr and Ms S at the time of 
the sale which is entitled Your Personal Solar Quotation.
Im satisfied that this quote was a central part of the sales presentation. I think this document 
is also relevant when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact and is 
particularly helpful when considering Mr and Ms Ss recollections of the sales process.
Benefits and performance of the system
I think that Mr and Ms S were told that the system would pay for its cash price over a 12 year 
period  not that it would be self-funding from the start. Therefore, I cannot agree that the 
installer misrepresented the panels as being self-funding from the start.
The quote has a table setting out the systems estimated performance over 25 years. Based 
on this, Im satisfied that the installer told Mr and Ms S that the system would pay for the 
loan by year 18, as the accumulated grand total of income and savings would by that time 
have exceeded the total cost of the system (including the finance costs). If that turns out
not to be true and if Im satisfied that this induced Mr and Ms S into entering the contract and 
they suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Mr and Ms S have provided their FIT statements. These show that the system generated 
7,264 kWh between installation and September 2020 (and in that year they moved house). 
This works out as an average of 2,332 kWh a year.In a number of places in the quote the installer has estimated that Mr and Ms Ss system 
would generate 2,668 kWh of electricity a year. So it can be seen from the FIT statements 
that the system has significantly underperformed compared to the installers estimates from 
the point of sale (about 87.4% of the estimate).
Im satisfied that the estimated generation and the subsequent FIT payment and electricity 
savings would have induced Mr and Ms S into entering the contract. The generation and 
therefore income are significantly lower than they were promised so they have suffered a 
loss.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Ms Ss complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by making sure 
that Mr and Ms S dont suffer a financial loss. In my view that would mean that the solar 
panel system should generate roughly what was promised in the quote.
P has already calculated Mr and Ms Ss loss to be £158.49 and has shown its working. It 
assumed that Mr and Ms S would have consumed 50% of the energy generated by the 
panels. However, I am satisfied that in carrying out this calculation, it would be fair to 
assume that they actually consumed 37% of the electricity generated by the panels. This 
figure has been arrived at by the Financial Ombudsman Service after reviewing an experts 
report on the subject. This report used information from the Energy Saving Trust to look at 
what a range of consumers would themselves consume depending on the length of time 
their household is occupied for during the day. The average across this research worked out 
at 37%, so its a fair reflection of what an average consumer will consume. So I think it would 
be fair and reasonable to apply this figure in this case.
I therefore require Shawbrook to recalculate (or ask P to recalculate on its behalf) the loss to 
Mr and Ms S based on an assumed average consumption rate of 37% of the energy 
generated, and then to pay that amount instead.
I also think it would be fair to require Shawbrook to add simple interest to that amount at the 
rate of 8% a year, from 4 August 2017 to 14 September 2020.
I also direct Shawbrook to pay another £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put 
things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman