DRN-2255659
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her personal bank account, without
giving her any advance warning and without explaining the reasons for its decision.
Miss C also complains that Lloyds closed her business account, but I will address that
complaint separately: this decision relates solely to her personal account.
What happened
On 26 June 2019 Lloyds wrote to Miss C to say it had reviewed her account and intended to
close it in 65 days time. Lloyds then blocked Miss Cs account on 8 July 2019, meaning
Miss C had no access to the funds in her account and could not make or receive payments.
When Miss C complained to Lloyds, it said it had decided to close her account after
completing a review, and that it had done so because her account fell outside of its risk
appetite. Lloyds said it didnt have to give further reasons beyond that.
Miss C withdrew the account balance on 10 July 2019. When she attended her local branch
to do so, she asked Lloyds to transfer the money to another account, but it declined to do so
and paid the money in cash. The balance in Miss Cs account was £358.39, although Miss C
said she wasnt able to access her account statement to check if shed been given the
correct amount.
Miss C said she was uncomfortable carrying a large amount of cash on her, but as the
majority of the funds she withdrew were from her business account, I will deal with that
matter in my decision relating to her business account, and not in this decision. Miss C was
also unhappy Lloyds denied her request to switch her account, when it had initially indicated
it would do so.
Our investigator was satisfied that Lloyds had acted in accordance with the terms and
conditions of Miss Cs account when it blocked and closed the account. He also said Lloyds
wasnt obliged to give Miss C an explanation of the reasons for its decision. So he didnt ask
Lloyds to do anything further to put things right for Miss C.
On 28 September, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions of the account in question  which both Lloyds and Miss C had to
comply with  say Lloyds can close an account for any reason by giving two months notice.
Or immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence Lloyds has provided me to explain why it closed Miss Cs
account. And Ive thought about how that sits against the terms of the account. Lloyds wrote
to Miss C on 26 June 2019, giving two months notice of the account closure. And Lloyds
has demonstrated that it closed Miss Cs account on 2 September 2019, which is more than
two months after it issued the notice. So, Im satisfied Lloyds followed the correct procedure
when it closed Miss Cs account.
I appreciate its frustrating for Miss C that Lloyds hasnt told her why it closed her account.
But Lloyds isnt obliged to disclose its reasons for closing an account, so I cant say its
treated her unfairly.
Account block
While Lloyds was entitled to close Miss Cs account with two months notice, it also blocked
her account on 8 July 2019. The account remained blocked for the duration of the notice
period, save that Miss C was allowed to withdraw the funds in the account which she did on
10 July 2019.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers
accounts while they carry out a review. So, if Lloyds can demonstrate that it blocked Miss
Cs account in accordance with its obligations, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to uphold
Miss Cs complaint.
Having considered the information Lloyds has sent our Service though, I havent seen
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that it was entitled to block Miss Cs account. And
because the block remained in place throughout the notice period, Miss C didnt have
access to her account after the notice was served. Which effectively negated the notice
period Lloyds had given Miss C.
With that in mind, Ive thought about the impact the block had on Miss C and whether Lloyds
should have to do anything to put things right for her. Miss C has told us that she had
alternative banking arrangements for her personal account. So, although the block denied
her access to her account, Im satisfied that she wouldnt have suffered any inconvenience
sufficient to justify a payment of compensation, given that she had a current account
elsewhere.
And while I understand Miss C was disappointed when Lloyds declined her account switch
request, Im not persuaded it was obliged to do carry out the switch. The terms and
conditions of Miss Cs account offer an account switch as a service, but do not compel it to
complete that service. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by declining to complete the
switch.
Miss C was also unhappy that she couldnt check her statements to see if she was given the
full account balance. Ive looked at Miss Cs closing statement and can see that she
withdrew the full account balance, which was £358.39. Because Lloyds did give her the
correct amount, I dont consider it would be appropriate to make an award in Miss Cs favour
for this aspect of her complaint.
With that being said, the block did deny Miss C access to the funds in her account. And
because Miss Cs business account was also blocked, Im persuaded that she would have
suffered trouble and upset as a result of Lloyds blocking access to her funds. So, I am
minded to tell Lloyds to pay Miss C compensation. I have to balance that against therelatively small account balance and the fact that Miss C was able to withdraw the funds two
days after the block. Because of that, Im minded to award Miss C £50.
I asked Miss C and Lloyds to provide any further submissions or evidence by 12 October 
2020. Neither Miss C, nor Lloyds responded to my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss C, nor Lloyds made any further representations or offered any
further evidence, my findings about this complaint havent changed. It follows that I uphold 
Miss Cs complaint in part.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Lloyds must pay Miss C £50 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman