DRN-3766569
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on a 
private medical insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that Aviva cancelled his policy rather 
than placing it on hold while it looked into his complaint.
Mr K is represented by Mrs K.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im not going set it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
On 29 June 2021, Mrs K took out a personal private medical insurance policy on Mr Ks 
behalf. Cover under the policy began in late May 2021. Mr K chose the Expert Select 
hospital list.
In September 2021, Mr Ks GP referred him for private psychiatric treatment, as he was 
struggling with his mood and stress levels. So Mrs K got in touch with Aviva to ask for its 
authorisation for Mr K to see a specialist.  Aviva agreed to cover the cost of a psychiatric 
consultation and provided Mrs K with the names of two specialists.
Around a week later, Mrs K contacted Aviva with details of a specialist shed found. But as 
the specialist wasnt recognised by Aviva, it said it couldnt cover treatment with that 
practitioner. It provided Mrs K with names of further specialists it did recognise.
About three weeks on, Mrs K called Aviva again to ask it to carry out a search of its 
specialists. However, Aviva let Mrs K know it wasnt able to do so and provided her with 
details of an external website she could use which listed specialists recognised by Aviva. 
Unfortunately Mrs K found it difficult to use the website and on 17 October 2021, she 
requested further help and clinician names from Aviva. But it didnt send on further specialist 
names until Mrs K chased this up around a week later. 
Ultimately, Mrs K arranged for Mr K to see a specialist herself. But when she let Aviva know 
about the consultation, it told her that it didnt recognise the specialist Mr K had seen. So it 
told her it couldnt reimburse the consultation cost. Mrs K was unhappy with the service 
shed received from Aviva and she complained. 
Mr Ks policy was paid each month by direct debit. But on 24 November 2021, the direct 
debit was cancelled at the bank. So Aviva cancelled Mr Ks policy and wrote to him on 6 
January 2022 to confirm the cancellation. It said it couldnt be held responsible for the lack of 
available practitioners, which had resulted from a lack of available appointments due to the 
impact of Covid-19. But it did recognise that it hadnt called Mrs K back with the information 
shed asked for on 17 October 2021 and it felt it couldve offered her more help to use the 
external website. So it offered to pay Mr K £50 compensation to recognise its errors in the 
handling of the claim. 
Mrs K asked us to look into Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think Aviva had handled the claim 
fairly. And she didnt think it had been fair for Aviva to cancel Mr Ks policy, rather than 
placing it on hold while it looked into his complaint.
Two of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint points. The first investigator felt the 
compensation Aviva had offered Mr K was fair. She was satisfied that the policy terms made 
it clear that it would only pay treatment costs for psychiatric therapists who were recognised 
by Aviva. And she didnt think Aviva was responsible for any lack of available appointments 
with psychiatric therapists, or for checking specialist availability. She was satisfied that Aviva 
had provided Mrs K with names of recognised practitioners who were based a reasonable 
distance from Mr Ks home. So she thought Aviva had handled the claim fairly.
The second investigator thought Aviva had been reasonably entitled to cancel Mr Ks policy. 
She noted there was no provision in the policy terms for a contract to be placed on hold. 
Aviva provided evidence which showed that the direct debit had been cancelled by Mr K. 
The policy terms stated that if a policyholders premium was unpaid, Aviva would cancel the 
policy. So she thought Aviva had cancelled the policy in line with the policy terms and had 
written to Mr K to let him know.
Mrs K disagreed. She said that instead of helping Mr K, Aviva had cancelled everything. 
Shed had to pay additional costs to get help for Mr K. She wanted the therapists costs to be 
reimbursed to her and for Aviva to reinstate Mr Ks policy on the same terms.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I think Aviva has already made a fair 
offer to settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ks policy and the circumstances of 
his claim, to decide whether Aviva treated him fairly.
First, Id like to say how sorry I was to hear about Mr Ks ill-health and the impact it had on 
him. I dont doubt how worrying this was for both Mr K and for his family.
It seems there are two key issues for me to decide. Those are whether Aviva handled Mr Ks 
claim fairly and whether it was reasonable for Aviva to cancel the policy. Ill consider each in 
turn.
Did Aviva handle Mr Ks claim fairly?
Ive turned to consider the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy, as these form the basis of 
his contract with Aviva. Mr Ks policy says that Aviva will cover eligible treatment. Eligible 
treatment must be: carried out by a health care professional, such as a specialist, who is 
qualified to provide your treatment and to care for your condition, and is recognised by us.
Mr K held the Expert Select level of cover. This says:
If you have the Expert Select hospital option, treatment will be covered when it's carried out 
by the specialist and at the hospital confirmed by usIf your GP decides you need to be referred for further diagnostic tests or treatment, you must 
obtain an open referral and contact us. We will then use our clinical knowledge and 
independent quality data to locate a specialist and hospital for you
If you have treatment with a hospital or specialist that has not been agreed by us, we
will not pay that provider's fees.
Mr K was referred by his GP for a psychological assessment. Aviva has defined what it 
means by a psychiatric therapist as:
A practitioner who is:
 employed to provide therapy sessions at a psychiatric hospital, or
 a fully qualified and accredited member of any counselling register overseen by the 
Professional Standards Authority (PSA)
and who is recognised by us.
In my view, Aviva has clearly set out that if a policyholder holds Expert Select cover, it will 
find a treating hospital and clinician for that policyholder upon receipt of an open referral 
from the policyholders GP. Its also clearly set out that it wont pay fees for treatment with a 
psychiatric specialist it doesnt recognise. So Ive gone on to think about whether Aviva 
fulfilled its obligations under the policy terms.
Ive looked carefully at Avivas claims notes. I can see that once Mrs K provided Aviva with a 
referral letter from Mr Ks GP, it immediately agreed to provide cover for a psychiatric 
consultation. It also provided her with the names of two psychiatric therapists it recognised. 
So I think it met its policy obligations here. And I can see that when Mrs K called back a few 
days later, it emailed her some more specialist names to try and help Mrs K book an 
appointment. 
It's unfortunate that there seems to have been no availability for the specialists Aviva had 
suggested to Mrs K. I appreciate this wouldve caused Mr K further worry, especially given 
his symptoms. However, I agree with our investigator that Aviva cant reasonably be held 
responsible for any lack of specialist appointments. It doesnt provide therapy services itself 
 it simply pays the costs of eligible treatment. So it too is dependent on clinical availability. 
And the Covid-19 pandemic had a large impact on mental health services, both in terms of 
appointment availability and demand. This appears to have affected Mrs Ks ability to book 
an appointment for Mr K as quickly as she would have liked.
Im aware Mrs K would have liked Aviva to have directly booked an appointment for Mr K. 
However, this isnt a service it offers. Its role is to authorise and pay claims and to give 
policyholders information about specialists it recognises to allow policyholders to book their 
own appointments. So I dont think it acted unfairly when it told Mrs K that it couldnt book a 
specialist appointment for Mr K.
However, Mrs K did ask Aviva for further help, in the form of support with using an external 
website and in providing further specialist names. And Aviva accepts both that it couldve 
provided more support and that there was a delay of a few days in providing Mrs K with 
additional specialist names. So I think its fair for Aviva to pay Mr K some compensation to 
reflect the additional frustration its failure to respond to Mrs Ks queries as quickly as it 
shouldve done is likely to have caused him. 
But I dont think I could fairly or reasonably conclude that Aviva should cover the cost of the 
specialist consultation Mrs K ultimately booked. Thats because, as Ive set out above, Aviva only covers the costs of psychiatric therapists it recognises. And it had made this clear to 
Mrs K from the very start. Unfortunately, the specialist Mr K went on to see wasnt 
recognised by Aviva. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the cost of the 
consultation.
I find that the compensation of £50 which Aviva has already offered Mr K is a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect the impact on him of its failure to provide more support to Mrs 
K in using the website and for a weeks delay in providing further recognised specialists 
names. So Im not directing it to pay anything more. Its open to Mr K to get in touch with 
Aviva to provide it with his bank details if he now wishes to accept this offer.
Was it fair for Aviva to cancel Mr Ks policy?
Mrs K feels strongly that it wasnt fair for Aviva to cancel Mr Ks policy, while it looked into 
this complaint. She considers it ought to have been put on hold and should now be 
reinstated on the same terms. Its important I make clear that theres no provision in the 
policy terms for a policyholder to stop paying their premiums while a complaint is 
investigated and for a policy to accordingly be put on hold.
On page 28 of the policy, Aviva has set out the following policy condition:
If any premium is not paid, the policy will automatically be cancelled. We will reinstate the
cover if the premium is paid within 45 days of its due date, subject to claims experience and 
the approval of our underwriters.
I note too that Mr Ks policy certificate says:
Period of cover 24 May 2021 to 23 May 2022 inclusive provided that the premium(s) are 
paid in accordance with the terms of this policy. This policy will be cancelled automatically 
upon non-payment of the premium.
In my view, Aviva has made it clear in the contract terms that if premiums arent paid, then it 
will cancel a policy automatically. 
Aviva has provided us with evidence which shows that Mr Ks direct debit was cancelled by 
the payee on 24 November 2021. So it appears that Mr K cancelled the direct debit, which 
meant that Aviva couldnt collect the premium payment from his bank. Aviva cancelled Mr 
Ks policy with effect from 24 November 2021, in line with the policy term Ive set out above. 
And I dont think it acted unreasonably by doing so.
Ive also seen a copy of a letter Aviva sent to Mr K on 6 January 2022. This letter included 
the following information:
We're sorry that you have decided to cancel your Healthier Solutions private healthcare 
policy, we've arranged cancellation from 24 November 2021 as instructed.
It's always possible that, like many customers, you'll change your mind. The good news is 
that we can offer you forty five days from the date the policy was cancelled, for you to have it 
re-instated on the same underwriting terms. This is subject to your claims history, our 
underwriters approval and any outstanding premiums paid in full After forty five days, you'll 
need to apply for a new policy and go through our underwriting process again.
This letter was sent to the address we hold for Mr K on our file and a copy was also sent to 
his broker. So I think Aviva made it sufficiently clear to Mr K that the policy had been cancelled and that it was open to him to reinstate it on the same terms, so long as he did so 
within 45 days of cancellation. However, as I understand it, Mr K didnt do so.
Based on all Ive seen, I dont think it appears that Aviva led Mr K to think that the policy 
could be paused. And Im satisfied it notified him not only that the policy had been cancelled, 
but also the next steps if hed changed his mind about the cancellation. This means that I 
dont find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could tell Aviva to now reinstate Mr 
Ks policy on the same terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva has already made a fair 
offer to settle Mr Ks complaint. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman