DRN-2080568
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) provided 
him with an unaffordable loan. 
  
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr G with a loan of £2,500.00 in January 2015. This loan had an 
APR of 99.9% and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £4,795.68 
was due to be repaid in 24 instalments of £199.82.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 118 118 Money unfairly 
provided this loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. 118 118 
Money disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Gs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr G would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr G would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
118 118 Money provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr G. In practice this
meant that 118 118 Money had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mr G undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
118 118 Money says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr G 
prior to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr G declared that he 
was earning around £1,620.00 a month and had no expenditure at all. 118 118 Moneys 
credit check showed that five active accounts but they were all going to be consolidated with 
the proceeds of this new loan. 
Ive carefully considered what 118 118 Money has said. But the credit check it carried out 
showed that Mr G had an account which had defaulted and a revolving credit account which 
was over its limit. This leads me to think that 118 118 Money needed to take steps to verify 
Mr Gs monthly expenditure. As I cant see that this 118 118 Money did do this and it instead proceeded with an 
inaccurate income and expenditure assessment based on an overoptimistic declaration of 
Mr G having no expenditure whatsoever, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr G with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 118 118 Money that Mr G
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told 118 118 Money that Mr G would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
118 118 Money was required to establish whether Mr G could make his loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Mr G was 
gambling significant amount of money and that his ability to make payments to this loan 
would in large part depend on his success as a gambler. In these circumstances, it is 
apparent to me that Mr G was unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without 
borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have shown 118 118 Money that Mr G would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So Im satisfied that 118 118 Moneys failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr G.
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some other 
way. So I dont think 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some 
other way.
Did Mr G lose out as a result of 118 118 Money unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr G paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 118 118 Money did wrong.
So I think that 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for 118 Money to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr G made, direct to 118 118 Money and any third-parties, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,500.00 originally lent. If Mr G has 
already repaid more than £2,500.00 then 118 118 Money should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr G;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr G to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance if the total amount 
paid by Mr G is less than £2500.00, it intends to collect on any remaining amount and its the 
case that Mr G is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman