DRN-3884931
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund him the amount he lost 
as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr D met someone via online dating who introduced him to a business called 
Sure fx investment (S), that she said she worked for. Mr D then started to trade with S. Mr D 
funded his investment with his own money and by taking out a substantial loan.
Over the course of his Investment with S, Mr D made the following payments on his Visa 
debit card to the legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges CRO and Xcoins that were then 
forwarded to S:
1. 7 October 2021 - Xcoins - £500.00
2. 8 October 2021 - Xcoins - £514.50
3. 12 October 2021 - Xcoins - £5,145.00
4. 13 October 2021 - Xcoins - £5,145.00
5. 18 October 2021 - Xcoins - £3,806.27
6. 20 October 2021 - Xcoins - £5,659.50
7. 28 October 2021 - Xcoins - £5,145.00
8. 28 October 2021 - Xcoins - £5,145.00
9. 29 October 2021 - Xcoins - £6,266.61
10. 5 November 2021 - CRO - £994.53
11. 8 November 2021 - CRO - £6,166.54
12. 8 November 2021 - CRO - £10,337.52
13. 12 November 2021 - CRO - £996.06
14. 15 November 2021 - CRO - £16,091.63
15. 29 November 2021 - CRO - £5,038.12
Mr D was able to see profits from his investment but when he tried to make a withdrawal S 
requested further funds from him and he realised he had fallen victim to a scam.
Mr D has been unable to recover any of the funds he sent to S and feels Lloyds should have 
done more to prevent the scam from taking place.
In addition to the above Mr D has had issues when Lloyds cancelled the direct debit in place 
for his loan repayments. This was accepted as a banking error and reinstated. Mr Ds credit 
file was also corrected. Lloyds also paid Mr D compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience it had caused.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ds complaint. She said Lloyds had acted reasonably by 
refusing to refund Mr D for the money he lost as a result of the scam and had compensated 
him fairly in relation to the cancellation of the direct debit.
As Mr D didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr D and Lloyds set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds should 
refund any of the money Mr D has lost because of this scam.
Lloyds was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr D made in relation to this 
scam to Xcoins and CRO.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr D was dealing with S, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr D didnt 
make the debit card payments to S directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges 
(Xcoins and CRO). This is important because Lloyds was only able to process chargeback 
claims against the merchants he paid (Xcoins and CRO), not another party (such as S).
The service provided by Xcoins and CRO would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Ds payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Xcoins and CRO provided 
the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr D paid. As Xcoins and CRO 
provided the requested service to Mr D any chargeback attempt would likely fail. 
Mr D has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Xcoins and CRO, so the starting 
point here is that Mr D is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The first payments Mr D made to Xcoins on 7 and 8 October 2021 were for £500.00 and 
£514.50 to a business Mr D had not previously paid. But I dont think its unreasonable that 
these payments didnt trigger Lloyds fraud prevention systems. I wouldnt expect the fraud 
prevention system to be triggered every time a customer pays a new business a relatively 
low amount, especially when they are paying a legitimate business.
On 12 and 13 October 2021 Mr D made two payments of £5,145.00 these payments were 
more significant and by the time Mr D attempted the second payment I think it would be 
reasonable for Lloyds fraud prevention systems to be triggered and for the payment to have 
been stopped. This would have required Mr D to have a conversation with Lloyds before the 
payment could be processed.
The payment Mr D made on the 18 October 2021 did trigger Lloyds fraud prevention system 
and a call took place. Mr D spoke to the Lloyds representative but wasnt honest in his explanation of the 
investment. Mr D said he was investing in the same way his friend had and that he had 
known his friend for a long time and used to work with him. He also said he would be making 
further similar payments moving forward.
The Lloyds representative warned Mr D about the types of scams it was seeing, which 
covered the scam Mr D was currently experiencing, where a third party that the customer 
had never met was asking customers to send over money for an investment. Lloyds 
explained that it would be unable to recover funds if they were sent in this way.
Despite the warnings Mr D was given he still did not give an accurate explanation of the 
investment he was making and instead gave a completely different set of circumstances to 
Lloyds that meant it wasnt concerned about the payments being related to a scam.
Mr D continued to make payments to cryptocurrency exchanges between 20 October 2021 
and 29 November 2021 that arguably should have triggered Lloyds fraud prevention 
systems requiring further conversations to take place, but this did not happen.
In addition to the expectations on Lloyds to have effective fraud prevention systems in place 
its expected that customers should take responsibility for their decisions. In the 
circumstances.
When Mr D did speak to Lloyds, he failed to give an accurate account of the investment and 
instead gave an entirely different back story that would not cause Lloyds any concerns. Mr D 
also funded his investment in part with a loan he took out with Lloyds. The reason he gave 
for the loan was that it would be used for home improvements. This again was incorrect 
information provided by Mr D disguising the true reason for the loan.
Its clear Mr D was not willing to tell Lloyds the true circumstances around the investment he 
was making, and I dont think further calls between Mr D and Lloyds would have made any 
difference to the answers Mr D provided. So, I dont think Lloyds missed an opportunity to 
step in and prevent this scam from taking place. Its unfortunate that Mr D has fallen victim to 
this scam, but Lloyds is not responsible for any of Mr Ds loss. 
Lloyds has accepted it made an error in cancelling the direct debit setup on Mr Ds account 
to service his loan and that this had an impact on Mr Ds credit file. In recognition of this error 
Lloyds corrected Mr Ds credit file and paid him a total of £200 compensation. I think this was 
reasonable.
I dont require Lloyds to do anything further to resolve Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman