DRN-1786604
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
On 21 October 2019, Mr H contacted Ageas, who he holds a home insurance policy with, in 
order to report that the roof and interior of his home had sustained damage following storms 
during August and September 2019. 
Ageas instructed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as V in this decision, to inspect the damage 
sustained by Mr Hs property. After V attended Mr Hs property it informed Ageas it had been 
unable to find any obvious storm damage. Instead, it felt the damage had been caused by a 
deterioration in the roof felt and it also identified a construction fault in the roof pitch design. 
Based on what V had said, Ageas declined Mr Hs storm damage claim. But Mr H disagreed 
with this decision and provided Ageas with a cause of damage report from a local trades 
person that had inspected his roof. This trades person explained that, in their opinion, "two 
slates on the upper third of roof have snapped diagonally as a result of what I deem to be 
wind uplift resulting in rainwater entering property lower down where it has found a 
hole/deterioration in felt underlay.
Ageas sent this report to V, who agreed that the damage to the roof tiles could have been 
caused by a storm event. But it maintained its view that the other damage had been caused 
by wear and tear and defects in the design of the roof. And, while Ageas agreed to pay for 
the replacement of the damaged roof tiles, it declined to settle the remainder of Mr Hs claim 
because it said this was excluded under the terms of his policy. 
Mr H complained to Ageas about its decision to only cover the cost of his damaged roof tiles. 
But it didnt uphold his complaint about the way it had settled his claim. It felt it had acted 
fairly in revisiting its stance regarding the damage to the roof tiles following the provision of a 
cause of damage report. But it maintained it wouldnt cover any damage, other than to the 
slates, because it was satisfied this had been caused gradually and not as a result of a one-
off storm event. It therefore didnt think it had made an error in how it had dealt with Mr Hs 
claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how Ageas had responded to his complaint Mr H referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but did recommend upholding this 
complaint. Overall, they were persuaded Ageas had dealt with Mr Hs claim fairly. And so, 
they didn't think it had made an error. But Mr H disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can see Mr H has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions and feels very strongly that his claim should be paid. I want to assure him that 
Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint 
 namely whether Ageas acted reasonably in settling his claim. And Ill explain why I think it 
has.
Theres no dispute that there was damage to Mr Hs property. However, theres a 
disagreement between him and Ageas about the cause of the damage and the correct 
outcome of this claim.
Mr Hs policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. In order for a claim to be 
successful a policy holder must show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by 
one of the perils listed in the policy.
When our service considers a claim for damage caused by a storm we need to address 
three main questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In weighing up the first question Ive looked to see if Mr Hs policy defines storm. And I can 
see his policy defines a storm as very windy conditions accompanied by heavy rain, hail or 
snow.
Mr Hs policy goes on to explain that in order for adverse weather to qualify as a storm there 
must be a weather event which occurs in the local vicinity of your home, where winds reach 
a gust strength of 47 miles per hour or greater.
 I havent seen any weather records in this case. But, its clear from the way Ageas dealt with 
Mr Hs claim that it accepted weather at around the time he noted damage to his property 
met its definition of a storm. I say this because it agreed to settle part of Mr Hs claim under 
the storm peril. And, on that basis, Im satisfied I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning now to question 2, Ive carefully thought about whether the damage caused to Mr 
Hs property is consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. I've 
considered what Mr H has said about the damage his property sustained together with V's 
report and the photographs it took. And Im satisfied, overall, this type of damage is 
something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question 
affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I have to address. Vs opinion is that storm conditions 
werent the main cause of damage here. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint 
V felt the damage had been predominantly caused by a deterioration in the roof felt and it 
also identified a construction fault in the roof pitch design. Specifically, it told Ageas:
The area of ingress was to a slate covered roof to a two storey side extension. Upon 
inspection I noted no storm of impact related damage evident. Closer inspection revealed 
one broken slate to the roof, but all the slates beneath covered this area and is unlikely to be 
causing rainwater ingress. No other damage was evidence to the roof or flashing. I noted the 
roof had a very shallow 15 degree pitch. The water ingress has been occurring slowly over a period of time via capillary action, eventually causing rot to the under felt, the felt 
deterioration has then resulted in the rainwater ingress.
I understand that Mr H disagrees with Vs opinion and is unhappy that Ageas has relied on 
its report to decline his claim. But Im satisfied V is a recognised organisation that regularly 
assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for Ageas to use 
Vs expertise in assessing a claim for storm damage. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Ageas reached an informed and fair decision on the cause of water 
ingress here. I say that because it took on board the cause of damage report Mr H provided 
from the trades person he instructed to inspect his roof. And it accepted their opinion that the 
roof tiles had been damaged as a result of a storm. Im pleased to see its already covered 
the replacement costs of the damaged tiles. 
I appreciate that Mr H strongly believes that all the damage to his property was caused by a 
storm. He told our service he had a survey on his property undertaken around two years 
ago, which didnt identify any issues. And he said he hadnt experienced any water ingress 
or similar problem prior to October 2019.
While I understand the point Mr H is making here, I think it's highly unlikely a survey would 
pick up on the issues that were exposed by the storm. I say this because a survey is a 
cursory examination that only highlights current faults at the time the survey is undertaken. 
And Im not persuaded issues such as underlay deterioration would be seen on a survey.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im persuaded by Vs opinion that the water ingress was 
predominantly caused by the way in which the roof had been constructed and the gradual 
deterioration of the felt underlay. I can see the presence of deterioration in the felt underlay 
is also confirmed by Mr Hs trades person, which they say is a common problem. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Hs property 
predominantly occurred due to poor roof construction and pre-existing wear and tear of the 
underlay. I think weather conditions over a period of time caused the underlay to deteriorate. 
And I havent seen enough evidence to attribute the damage to a one-off storm event as 
would be required for me to tell Ageas to meet Mr Hs claim here. Like our investigator, I 
think the problems he experienced have been exacerbated by periods of adverse weather, 
which explains why he continues to observe water ingress during heavy rainfall.
Under the terms of Mr Hs policy loss or damage caused by faulty design or wear and tear of 
materials is specifically excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies 
because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen.
In these circumstances, I cant fairly conclude that Ageas acted unfairly or made an error in 
declining to cover the damage that isnt covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs 
insurance policy. Its shown our service reliable evidence to show why it feels the damage to 
Mr Hs property was predominantly caused by a defective roof construction and wear and 
tear. And this means I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman