DRN-3729636
The complaint
Mrs Ns representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc, 
referred to as SJP. 
In short, the CMC says that the 2007 advice to invest in an ISA and Investment Bond was 
unsuitable because, as a novice investor, she was advised to take too much risk with her 
money. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Despite what Mrs N says about the investment being too much risk for an investor 
with no prior knowledge or experience of the stocks and shares market, the fact find 
showed that she had prior experience of investing in the stock market. 
oAt the time of the advice, Mrs N held £3,000 in single company shares. 
SJP assessed Mrs N as a medium/balanced risk investor. Categorized as a three on 
a scale of one to five. One being low risk /cautious, and five being high risk / 
speculative. 
Mrs N wanted to utilise her tax allowance and invest for potential growth over the 
medium to long term. But she refused to disclose her income and expenditure 
because the funds came from an inheritance, so this didnt affect her. 
Mrs N had £70,000 left from her inheritance. She was advised to invest £7,000 into 
an ISA (invested in the UK & General Progressive Fund and Worldwide Opportunities 
Fund) and £40,000 into an Investment Bond (invested between six balanced 
managed fuds). This left £23,000 as a cash reserve. 
The funds offered diversity and were in line with Mrs Ns attitude to risk. According to 
the evidence, the investment was in line with her objectives. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Mrs N was a relatively inexperienced investor, and although she held a modest 
£3,000 of Marks and Spencer (M&S) shares this didnt make her a sophisticated 
investor as the recommended investment/funds would suggest. 
The risk in the Worldwide Opportunities Fund wouldve increased due to the 
exchange rate. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I cant safely say 
that SJP gave unsuitable investment advice.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ns strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs N and SJP, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, on a balance of probabilities whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
Given the source of the funds, I dont think Mrs N took any more risk than she was 
willing to take with that portion of her remining inheritance money. 
oI note she was in her late 40s, married with two dependent children and she 
was a homemaker. She owned her home with her husband and had joint 
assets of £30,000. 
oPrior to investing she had £70,000 on deposit of which she wanted to invest 
£47,000.
This may explain why she didnt want to disclose her income and expenditure 
because it didnt affect her finances, and or lifestyle. Im mindful that Mrs Ns 
husband was the main earner and was a higher-rate tax payer, working for a 
company at a senior level. Its arguable that this money couldve been replaced if 
needed and that given its source, she wasnt dependent on it. In any case, an adviser 
can only advise based on the information provided. 
In other words, Im satisfied that Mrs N had no plans for the funds over the medium to 
long term and therefore could afford to take a (greater) risk in order to achieve better 
returns. Im mindful her recorded priority was Investing for Growth, which was 
important to her. She wasnt hoping to create capital for a specific purpose or for 
income and didnt require access to this capital.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that her objective to invest in 
a tax efficient way for potential growth over the medium to long term (five to ten 
years) wasnt met. In other words, on balance Im satisfied that Mrs N was happy to 
follow the recommendation and invest in the ISA and the investment bond. 
Im also aware that alternative investments were discussed and discounted. Theres 
no suggestion that Mrs N was made to do anything that she didnt want to. 
I should also point out that our service doesnt generally consider complaints about 
investment performance alone, which can be dependent on a number of factors  
such as the stockmarket for example  which are outside the control of SJP. Based 
on what the CMC says, it seems the investment didnt do as well as Mrs N mightve 
hoped, but in the circumstances thats not something I can blame SJP for.
Its only with the benefit of hindsight the CMC might be able to say that other investments mightve performed better, but that doesnt mean the recommendation 
by SJP at the time was unsuitable.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs Ns attitude to risk was discussed, and she was 
content with her categorisation. She chose to invest in the ISA (investing 50% in the 
Worldwide Opportunities Fund and 50% into the UK &General Progressive Fund) 
and investment bond (investing equally between six Managed Funds (listed below) 
out of an option of 20) spreading the risk: 
o17% THSP Managed Fund 
o17% Invesco Perpetual Managed Fund
o17% Schroder Managed Fund 
o17% World Wide Managed Fund
o16% Axa Framlington Managed Fund   
o16% Newton Goal Managed Fund 
Despite what the CMC says, I dont think the investigator was suggesting that Mrs N 
was a sophisticated investor. However, shes not without investment experience  
she owned £3,000 worth of M&S shares - and was likely to have been aware of the 
general risks involved. 
Despite what the CMC says, I think she was able and willing to take a risk with a 
portion of her (remaining) inheritance money. I note she had access to a reasonable 
amount of cash in case of an unexpected emergency or short-term needs. 
Notwithstanding the risks involved, I havent seen any evidence that Mrs N needed to 
be a sophisticated investor in order to invest in the ISA and investment bond 
recommended by SJP.  
I appreciate that Mrs N will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, I cant safely say that SJP behaved unreasonably. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman