DRN-4330602
The complaint
Mrs C complains Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa (at the time trading as Zopa Limited) 
irresponsibly arranged a loan that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In January 2019 Zopa arranged a loan for Mrs C of £5,000 with a fee of £140. The loan was 
to be repaid over a term of 60 month with equal instalments of around £102 and a total 
repayable value of around £6,130. 
Mrs C complained to Zopa about irresponsible lending in April 2023. She said had Zopa 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have identified the loan wasnt 
affordable for her. She said she was in financial difficulties and persistent debt at the time 
this loan was approved and that she already had a high level of debt with other lenders.
Zopa issued its final response in May 2023 not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. It said its 
checks were reasonable and proportionate and that it made a fair lending decision when 
arranging the loan. Unhappy with Zopas response Mrs C brought her complaint to our 
service for review. 
Our investigator considered the details and upheld Mrs Cs complaint. He said Zopas 
checks hadnt gone far enough, and he went on to consider what reasonable and 
proportionate checks at the time would likely have identified. Based on his review of Mrs Cs 
bank statements in the months leading up to this loan, he concluded Zopa hadnt made a fair 
lending decision when arranging this loan. 
Mrs C accepted the outcome; Zopa didnt agree. It maintained it argument that its checks 
were reasonable and proportionate and that it went on to make a fair lending decision when 
arranging this loan. It said that the rate of this loan was likely lower than the lines of credit 
Mrs C was looking to consolidate; and that if Mrs C still had existing debts to pay after the 
loan had been approved, then it hadnt been used as had been declared in the application, 
which was to consolidate existing debts. 
Zopa asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website.
Zopa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it arranged was responsibly lent 
to Mrs C. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Zopa arranged the loan 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Mrs Cs ability to afford the loan being approved and repay it sustainably, without 
causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Zopa to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision when arranging 
this loan. 
Zopa has said its checks included verifying Mrs Cs income via an online credit tool and 
obtaining her declared monthly payment towards her mortgage. It also completed a credit 
check to identify her existing credit commitments and details about her credit management. 
It said this information enabled it to calculate the monthly disposable income Mrs C had 
available in order to cover her non-discretionary expenditure and other living costs.
Zopa says it considers these checks were reasonable and proportionate and that it went on 
to make a fair decision when arranging this loan for Mrs C. 
Ive carefully considered Zopas argument, but Im not persuaded its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate in this instance; or that it went on to make a fair lending 
decision when arranging this loan for Mrs C. 
I say this because while I accept the loan purpose was declared as debt consolidation, the 
loan value wasnt enough to effectively consolidate all of Mrs Cs existing revolving credit, of 
around £8,500; it would still have left her with around £3,500. And as Zopa has pointed out, 
its likely these other debts would have been at a higher rate so Mrs C would have still 
needed to contribute a considerable amount each month towards these other credit 
commitments in order to look to reduce them down and pay them off over a reasonable 
period of time, as well as making payments towards this loan.
Zopas checks also led it to conclude that Mrs C would be left with around £1,500 disposable 
income per month. However, taking into account non-discretionary expenditure and general 
living costs this amount would have reduced. The credit check Zopa completed identified 
Mrs C had two current accounts with a combined outstanding debt by way of overdraft 
facilities of over £2,100. This appears to contradict Zopas calculations that Mrs C would be 
left with such a high level of disposable income, and I dont consider it was reasonable for 
Zopa to have accepted its calculations at face value given the contradictory information it 
had available to it; especially given it was tying Mrs C into this loan for a lengthy term of 60 
months.
The credit check also showed Mrs Cs total outstanding debt at around £25,000. While I can 
see Zopa verified Mrs Cs income at around £48,000, this level of unsecured outstanding 
debt was still relatively high. 
For these reasons I consider Zopa needed to obtain a full understanding of Mrs Cs actual 
financial position, by verifying her regular non-discretionary expenditure, as well as verifying 
her income and outstanding credit commitments as it did. 
In order to look to understand what Zopa would have seen had it completed further checks, 
Mrs C has provided us with her bank statements. Ive reviewed these from around three 
months before this lending decision to determine what I consider Zopa would likely have 
identified had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. Mrs Cs bank statements show that across the three months leading up to this loan her 
salary was lower than she had declared and that Zopa had verified. In one of the months it 
was just over £1,500, around 50% lower than Zopa had taken into account for its affordability 
calculations. 
Mrs Cs sole account is also consistently in an overdrawn position. And at times within each 
of the three months Mrs Cs utilisation gets as high as 99% of the £3,000 facility and within 
single digits of this limit before funds are paid in. While I accept this loan purpose was 
detailed as consolidation, and I consider Zopa may reasonably have accepted that Mrs C 
was looking to consolidate the overdraft debt she had across two accounts with this loan, it 
does paint a picture that this appears to be someone who is already in financial distress on a 
monthly basis and who is struggling to maintain their existing living costs and credit 
commitments. 
Mrs C declared to Zopa that she contributed more towards household costs than her partner, 
and her statements appear to support this as transfers averaging just over £1,500 are made 
to the joint household account across the three months. 
Zopa needed to complete its assessment taking into account the worst monthly position 
Mrs C could find herself in based on the information it would likely have obtained, to ensure 
this loan was sustainably affordable for her across the full 60 months term. 
The transfers do fluctuate across the three months leading up to this loan, largely following 
the fluctuation in salary received. In the month where Mrs C received the lowest salary of 
around £1,500, the payment into the joint account to cover essential bills and living costs 
was £1,000  leaving Mrs C with around £500 to cover payments towards her credit 
commitments, other living costs and any unexpected costs that may occur. 
Taking into account payments towards this loan, payment towards the non-consolidated 
outstanding revolving debt (at a level to ensure the debt would be repaid within a reasonable 
period of time), as well as repayments towards the existing loan Zopa had identified in 
Mrs Cs name; shed be left with less than £50 per month for other living costs like food, 
travel and clothing, as well as any unexpected costs that could occur. And as this loan was 
over a term of 60 months, I dont consider this would have been sustainable or affordable for 
Mrs C across this substantial term.
Had Zopa completed a more detailed review I consider it ought reasonably to have identified 
this loan, no matter its purpose, wasnt sustainably affordable for Mrs C; and it therefore 
follows it shouldnt have gone on to arrange this loan.
Putting things right
Mrs Cs had the benefit of this loan, so I consider its fair that she repays the capital amount 
lent. But Mrs C has paid interest and fees on a loan that shouldnt have been provided. So, 
Mrs C has lost out and Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa need to put things right by 
taking the following action:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mrs C should then be deducted from the new starting balance. 
a. If the payments Mrs C has made total more than the amount she was 
originally lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and 
refunded to her, together with 8% simple interest* calculated on any 
overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Mrs C to the date the 
complaint is settled.b. If after the adjustments have been made there is still a balance to pay Plata 
Finance Limited trading as Zopa should discuss arranging a 
suitable/affordable payment arrangement with Mrs C for the remaining 
balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file as a result of this 
loan once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa to deduct tax from 
this interest. Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa should give Mrs C a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint about Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa and require it 
to take action as set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman