DRN-2546816
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality because it wasnt as described.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo.
Mr H says he visited the supplying dealer having seen the car advertised. During the sales 
negotiations, Mr H told the salesman that he wanted to part exchange his current car. Mr H 
says the salesman asked to see the service history of his car in order to work out the part 
exchange value.
Mr H says that during the negotiations, he asked about the service history of the car he was 
interest in. The salesman told Mr H that the car had a full service history. Mr H says the 
salesman told him that the full service history could be viewed online. 
Mr H says that prior to this he had always purchased brand new cars, and that it was the full 
service history of this car that was the main selling point. Mr H says he entered into the 
agreement on the understanding that the car had a full service history. 
In February 2020 Mr H checked to see when the car was next due a service.  When he 
looked online, he couldnt see that any services had been carried out. He emailed the 
supplying dealer about this and (after sending more emails) was advised by the supplying 
dealer that it had checked online but couldnt find any service history registered. The 
supplying dealer said it had spoken to the manufacturer who had confirmed that a service 
had been carried out at 6737 miles on 6 February 2015, and a further service at 38,000 
miles. The supplying dealer advised Mr H that it had exhausted all avenues for the missing 
service history. 
Mr H complained to the supplying dealer, but the dealer said that all of its advertisements 
included a disclaimer stating that whilst every effort was made to ensure accuracy of 
information, errors may occur.
Mr H complained to MotoNovo. Following an investigation, MotoNovo partially upheld the 
complaint. It said that because the car was advertised as having a full service history, it 
would be willing to compensate Mr H for the cost of a service. It also offered compensation 
of £100. 
Mr H was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought it was likely that Mr H had been provided 
with incorrect information which led him to sign the finance agreement. The investigator said 
that because the impact of the missing service history wasnt known, the fairest resolution 
was to allow Mr H to reject the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said the dealership didnt recall a discussion with Mr H about 
service history. It questioned why Mr H hadnt checked the service history online prior to the 
point of supply if it was so important to him. MotoNovo said it felt that too much weight had 
been placed on Mr Hs testimony and said it didnt agree that it should have to reimburse him 
for further servicing expenses because it had made it clear to him that any further costs 
would need prior approval.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as described.
In this case, Mr H says the car was described as having a full service history on the 
advertisement. He also says that the salesman at the supplying dealer stated that the car 
had a full service history. 
In relation to the advertisement, MotoNovo has acknowledged that the information was 
incorrect. But it pointed to a disclaimer on the advertisement which stated that error might 
occur.
In relation to the statements made by the supplying dealer, MotoNovo has said that the 
dealership has no recollection of discussing the service history of the car with Mr H.
In order to say that there has been a misrepresentation here, I would need to be satisfied 
that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr H to enter into the 
agreement. As the provider of finance, MotoNovo is equally responsible if there has been a 
misrepresentation.
I will comment on the advertisement first. Theres no dispute that the car was advertised with 
a full service history. MotoNovo seek to rely on the disclaimer. Ive looked at the disclaimer 
and whilst I agree that it say that errors may occur, it also says that a purchaser should 
check with the dealership about any issue which might affect a decision to purchase the car. 
Mr H says he specifically asked the dealership about the service history. MotoNovo says 
there isnt enough evidence to show that Mr H questioned the dealership about the service 
history prior to the point of supply. It says the dealership doesnt recall a discussion about 
service history. In order to decide whether Mr H was told by the dealership that the car had a 
full service history, I need to look at the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probability, whether the representation was made or not. 
Ive taken into account what Mr H has said about the discussions he had with the dealership. 
Ive also taken into account what MotoNovo has said and Ive looked at the information it 
provided, including the sale check sheet. Ive also taken into account the email exchanges 
that Mr H had with the dealership subsequently. On balance, Im persuaded that its more 
likely than not that Mr H asked the dealership about the service history and was told that 
there was a full service history. I dont think the sale check sheet carries any weight because 
it simply records not applicable against the service book stamped and filled in section. If 
there wasnt a service history, then I would have expected the dealership to say so by 
entering no on the check sheet. The dealership hasnt denied that there was a discussion 
with Mr H regarding service history  it has simply stated that it has no recollection of such a 
discussion. Conversely, Mr H is very clear that he had a discussion and that he was told that 
the car had a full service history. The emails exchanged with the dealership subsequently 
and the dealerships actions in trying to locate the service history also suggests to me that 
there had been discussions about service history at the point of supply. I am persuaded by Mr Hs testimony.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the disclaimer is effective in these 
circumstances, because Im satisfied that Mr H checked the service history with the 
supplying dealer.
Ive gone on to consider whether the dealer made a misrepresentation about the service 
history. There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr H and the dealer, nor is there 
a statement from the individual salesman concerned. Because I wasnt present, I cant be 
certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the documents 
which came into existence at the time, as well as taking into account the wider 
circumstances of the case, to decide whats most likely to have happened.
Having considered all of the available information, I think its more likely than not that the 
dealership told Mr H that the car had a full service history. I think its more likely that this 
happened because the original advert stated that there was a full service history. I also find 
Mr Hs testimony persuasive. The dealerships inability to recall a discussion about service 
history isnt as strong  evidentially  as a complete denial. I dont find the sales check sheet 
persuasive for the reasons Ive already explained. Further, I think its more likely than not that 
a reasonable person would ask about service history before buying a used car.
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that the dealership misrepresented the 
service history. Im satisfied, based on what Mr H has said, that he wouldnt have entered 
into the agreement if he hadnt thought that the car had a full service history. I appreciate 
that MotoNovo has said that if the service history was so important to Mr H, he would have 
checked it online at the point of supply. However, Mr H has explained that because the 
salesperson told him that the car had a full service history and that the car would be serviced 
and MOTd before he collected it, he didnt think it was necessary to worry about checking 
the service history at the time. I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs explanation on this point 
and I remain of the view that it was the dealerships statement that the car had a full service 
history that led Mr H to enter into the agreement.  
Putting things right
I appreciate that MotoNovo partially upheld the complaint and that Mr H accepted the offer of 
a service in part settlement.
However, I dont think this is a situation which can be fairly remedied by further services, or 
by financial compensation. The missing service history means that its impossible to know 
what impact this might have had o the car going forwards. I dont think its fair to leave Mr H 
in possession of a car which isnt as described and which may have unforeseeable issues 
relating to a previous lack of servicing. 
Because of this, Im of the view hat the only fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint 
is to allow Mr H to reject the car.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr H
Refund Mr Hs part exchange deposit of £8,318 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr H for any costs hes incurred in servicing the car (upon proof of payment)
Remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file
Pay further compensation of £100 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman