DRN-2810697
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) changed the address on 
her current account without her knowledge.
What happened
Ms K had a current account in her sole name with BoS. In January 2021, whilst looking at 
her account online, she noticed that the address had been changed. She said it had been 
changed to her ex-husbands new address. She said there was no reason for this to happen 
as the account had always been a sole account in her name, shed been separated from her 
husband for three years, and the divorce had been finalised in 2020.
She said that when she contacted BoS they were unable to tell her how this had happened. 
She said they agreed to correct the address but when she checked later that day she 
discovered the wrong address was still showing. She said she logged in and changed the 
address herself.
She then discovered that her personal financial details had been posted to and opened by 
her ex-husband at his new address. She also heard that he received a compensation 
payment of £350 from BoS. She said she understood this was because shed accused him 
of fraud as shed originally suspected he had changed the address details. She said it was 
unfair that she wasnt getting more compensation than him, especially when she was the 
customer of BoS. 
Ms K complained this was a serious breach of GDPR. She said her personal and financial 
information had not been securely managed, and ended up being able to be scrutinised by 
her ex-husband.
BoS confirmed they had changed the address in error. They upheld her complaint and 
offered £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused plus £30 to cover her expenses. 
This was later increased to £350.
As there was no dispute about what had happened, our investigator looked at whether or not 
the amount offered to Ms K by BoS was reasonable when considering the impact the 
mistake had upon her.
Our investigator explained to Ms K why she couldnt comment on any award made to Ms Ks 
ex-husband, and why she would focus only on the particulars of her complaint. She 
explained why she felt the offer made by BoS reflected the practical and emotional impact of 
the error. 
Ms K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute about what happened. The address was changed on Ms Ks account by 
BoS. Theyve admitted this and explained it was due to human error. Theyve offered 
compensation, and Ms K doesnt think this reflects the impact the mistake had on her.
The rules we follow are set out in the FCA Handbook, available online. These rules say we 
can award fair compensation if a businesss mistake causes distress or inconvenience to the 
customer. That includes the emotional impact of the mistake.
There are examples on our website of what we look at when considering what would be a 
fair amount of compensation.
Its clear to me that this mistake happened at a difficult time for Ms K. Shes eloquently 
described the impact the error had on her and why this was significant, following on from an 
acrimonious divorce. But Ive stood back and looked at the steps BoS took and the award 
they offered.
Im satisfied they took reasonable steps to resolve Ms Ks complaint. While the amount 
theyve offered is not what Ms K thinks it should be, I dont think their error amounted to a 
significant failure of customer service.
Its unfortunate that this happened when it did. From Ms Ks perspective the impact was 
greater than just a mistake with the address: she thought it gave her ex-husband access to 
all her financial information, and he received a letter about the loan shed taken out. I know 
this was worrying for her, but her ex-husband didnt have access to her information, or to the 
money in her account.
Ive thought about the letter that was sent to her ex-husbands address. I agree with our 
investigator  I understand why she was embarrassed that her ex-husband knew shed 
taken out a loan, but the purpose of the loan wasnt disclosed. So I take the view that the 
amount of information disclosed was limited.
Like our investigator, I cannot comment on any award made to her ex-husband. I can only 
focus on whats happened here. I understand and appreciate this mistake happened at a 
difficult time for Ms K. And Ive listened carefully to her describe the impact this had on her. 
But Im satisfied the amount of £350 theyve offered is fair and reasonable, and in line with 
what I would have offered in these circumstances. I think its a fair reflection of the trouble 
and upset caused, the short period of time, and BoSs admission that it was caused by 
human error, which unfortunately does happen.
My final decision
For the reason given above, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to do anything more to resolve Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman