DRN-1275311
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a default applied to her credit record by The Co-operative Bank plc 
('Co-op'), which she believes is incorrect and unjust.
What happened
Mrs B had a credit card with Co-op, which she didnt often use. She moved home in July 
2015, and recalls calling the bank to change her address details. 
And in March 2016, she received a letter from Co-op at her changed address which related 
to her credit card, so she believed it had the right address for her. 
Then in April 2018, she received another letter from the bank which said that it had had post 
returned and asked her to confirm her address details. Mrs B didnt respond to this letter, as 
Co-op had previously written to her at the right address, so she thought it did have the 
correct details for her.
However, Mrs B was unaware that an automatic payment had been taken from her credit 
card in November 2017, which was a subscription renewal. By this time Mrs B wasnt using 
her credit card and wasnt receiving any monthly statements. As Co-op hadnt received any 
payments towards the credit card balance; late fees and charges were added to it. Then in 
June 2018, after it didnt receive a reply to its letter asking her to confirm her address, it 
issued a default notice to Mrs B, followed by a final demand letter. 
But these letters were sent to Mrs Bs previous address, and so she didnt receive them. She 
was unaware that there was a problem until she was contacted by a debt collection agency. 
Mrs B complained as she said shed contacted Co-op to change her address when she 
moved in 2015, and because of the letter she received in March 2016, she had no concerns 
that it didnt have the right address for her. She received the letter from Co-op checking it 
had her correct details but didnt respond to this as she believed it did. Mrs B felt Co-op had 
applied a default to her credit file which was incorrect and unjust. She said shed paid more 
than £800 in legal fees related to this and asked for these to be refunded.
However, Co-op said it had no record of Mrs B contacting it with her new address details. It 
said all the letters and statements about her account had been sent to the address it held for 
her. It said it could only find a record of sending the one letter to Mrs Bs new address, but it 
wasnt because her address details had been updated. It said there were occasions where it 
may use a tracing agent to find an up-to-date address for customers when it had had 
post returned for them. It had written to Mrs B asking her to confirm her address in April 
2018, but hadnt received a reply from her and so couldnt change the address details. Co-op 
said it was unable to explain why a letter was sent to Mrs Bs address in March 2016, 
because this wasnt the address it held for her account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said there was nothing on the banks records to show that Mrs B had contacted it to change her address and her statements continued to be sent to her old address, which he thought 
showed this was the primary address it had for her. The investigator said Co-op had used a 
tracing agent to identify an address for Mrs B, but the details wouldnt be changed on her 
account unless she confirmed that they were correct. 
The investigator said Co-op needed to give Mrs B reasonable notice of its intention to default 
her account when she hadnt made a payment towards the balance on it. And he said it had 
written to Mrs B in April 2018 asking her to confirm her address details as a matter of 
urgency; this was two months before it issued the default notice. In summary, the 
investigator didnt think Co-op should have to remove the default, or refund Mrs Bs legal 
expenses.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she'd told Co-op about her change 
of address, and she felt it was the banks systems that were at fault. She said the letter she 
received in 2016 at the correct address was evidence of this. She said it was an automated 
renewal payment that had caused the issue, and otherwise the card hadnt been used for a 
considerable time. She said the record of the default is having a disproportionate impact on 
her life. 
Mrs B provided information which showed that her post had been redirected from her 
previous address until mid 2017, so she said the bank wouldnt have been receiving returned 
post for her. She thought it was reasonable for her to have assumed the bank did have the 
right address for her, as it had written to her there. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do feel this is a finely balanced complaint. Co-ops records dont give any indication that an 
alternative or updated address was given for Mrs Bs credit card account, and yet she 
received a letter from it at her new address about this account. And the bank hasnt been 
able to confirm with any certainty why this was. 
Mrs B has shown us that she had postal redirection in place until mid 2017, so she wouldve 
received her credit card statements, even though they were wrongly addressed. And I can 
see that Mrs B paid off her balance each month. So this suggests to me that its likely she 
wouldve paid off her balance in December 2017, if she had been aware that the payment 
had been made from her account. I also understand that she did repay it once she was 
contacted by the debt collection agency.
Ive looked into the payment itself, and why it was taken from the credit card on this 
occasion. From what I understand, it was an annually renewed subscription payment that 
Mrs B has told us was usually paid from her current account using her debit card details. But 
payment didnt go through on that card on this occasion, and so the company used the credit 
card details it held for Mrs B to continue the renewal of her subscription. So I can see why 
Mrs B wasnt aware that it had been made using the credit card, when this wasnt a payment 
she made directly. 
However, I also dont think Co-op could be said to be a fault for this. The payment was made 
using the credit facility, with authorisation Mrs B had previously given the company by 
registering the credit card on her account with it. Therefore Co-op was entitled to expect it to 
be repaid in accordance with the credit card terms and conditions. So Ive also considered why Mrs B was unaware of the payment. I can appreciate why she 
believed Co-op did have her new address. Its unfortunate that Co-op isnt able to explain 
how it came to write to Mrs B at the correct address in 2016, when this isnt shown on its 
records for her account. The letter was sent separately from any account statements and 
relates to her having a positive balance on her account. From what I can see, Mrs B made a 
payment to the card of £709.40, when her balance on the previous months statement was 
£20.29. Mrs B is unable to recall why this payment was made, but shes told us she phoned 
Co-op about this at the time to make arrangements to have the balance returned to her. 
Shes said she wouldve confirmed her correct address during that call to get through her 
account security questions.
However, I havent seen a record of such a call in the contact notes for her account. And the 
credit card statement for the following month suggests that she used the positive balance for 
spending on her card, rather than she had it refunded to her. So I cant say that this in itself 
is evidence that she gave confirmation of her address at that time. 
Ive also considered the possibility that the fault may lie with Co-ops systems, if I accept that 
Mrs B did let it know her new address but this wasnt changed fully or properly on her 
account records. 
And whilst I acknowledge the lack of explanation about how Co-op had the correct address 
for the 2016 letter, I also havent seen any changes to the address records on her account 
and there are no contact notes at all relating to this. So I dont think I can reach a certain 
conclusion that the bank was given the new address details but this wasnt properly updated, 
when I wouldve expected to see some indication of this contact. 
Im mindful that all of Mrs Bs account statements showed her old address and wouldve 
been being redirected by Royal Mail. Ive also considered the letter Co-op sent to Mrs B in 
April 2018 which specifically asked Do we have the correct address for you? and asked her 
to contact the bank as a matter of urgency to confirm if the address it had written to was 
right. I think it's reasonable to consider that this, along with the address shown on her 
account statements, should've been an indication that the bank didn't have the right address 
for her.
However, I must consider whether I think Co-op acted wrongly in applying the default. And 
having taken everything into account, I dont think I can say that it has. This is because, 
aside from the letter in 2016, all the other indications were that Co-op didnt have the right 
address for Mrs B.
I do think the circumstances here are unfortunate and I fully appreciate the impact of the 
combined issue of the incorrect address and automatic renewal payment will have on Mrs B. 
I can also understand that being contacted by the debt collection agency will have been 
worrying and upsetting.
However, it remains that the credit card was used to make a payment, so I think Co-op had 
the right to expect that this would be repaid. The debt was owed and the bank took steps to 
make Mrs B aware of this. It used a tracing agent to find her correct address in 2018 before 
the default was issued, but couldn't change any of her details without her confirmation that 
they were right.
I do appreciate Mrs Bs strength of feeling about the fairness of the default in these 
circumstances and I understand what shes said about the impact of adverse information on 
her credit history. But I dont think Co-op should be required to amend to her credit file when 
this reflects how she managed the credit card account. Co-op has a responsibility to report 
accurate and up-to-date information to credit reference agencies, and I think thats what it has done here. I also dont think it should be required refund any legal costs Mrs B incurred 
through her solicitors involvement in contacting Co-op about her complaint, when it was her 
choice to do this.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman