DRN-2511659
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
What happened
Miss M and Mr S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in August 2001 at the same time as 
taking out a mortgage. Neither party can recall much about where the mortgage was 
arranged. 
In November 2003, Miss M and Mr S took out a new MPPI policy in November 2003. This 
policy covered repayments on a mortgage with a different lender.
Miss M and Mr S says HSBC mis-sold the MPPI policies. They say they didnt know they 
had either policy and knew nothing about them. They say with the provisions they had at the 
time of each sale they also didnt want or need them. Miss M and Mr S have recently 
submitted sales documents that they say show MPPI was not presented on them. They also 
show times when Miss M was sick and didnt claim benefit, that they say proved they were 
unaware of the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss M and Mr Ss complaint. As Miss M and Mr S dont agree 
with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss M and Mr Ss case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Miss C and Mr Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
HSBC has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used at 
the time of each sale. Miss M and Mr S have provided a loan agreement from 2001 
that they say doesnt mention MPPI on it. I have looked at the form and can see that 
MPPI is not mentioned. But that doesnt mean necessarily on balance, that MPPI 
was added without Miss M and Mr Ss knowledge. Ive not been able to see most of 
the original sales documentation so I cant be sure that MPPI wasnt mentioned. For 
this reason, its been difficult for me to consider whether Miss M and Mr S were given 
a choice or not as to whether they should have the MPPI policies (or whether the 
policies were added without their knowledge).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way HSBC sold these policies around 
the time either were sold, in 2001 or 2003. And due to the amount of years that have 
passed since the sale, I have not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of either 
sale either. This though is understandable as many years have passed since. So, 
with all that I have concluded in mind, I cannot fairly say on this occasion that Miss M 
and Mr S werent given a choice when they were sold the policies in 2001 and 2003. I 
just havent seen enough through further documentation or a detailed recollection, to 
draw that conclusion. 
Moving on, I think it is more likely HSBC recommended the MPPI policies to Miss M 
and Mr S and so it had to ensure during the sales that the policies were suitable for 
Miss M and Mr Ss needs in 2001 and 2003. Miss M and Mr S have told us that they 
both changed employment between the policies being sold. But they both say their 
sick pay and circumstances remained the same.
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policies 
were unsuitable for Miss M and Mr S based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time. Miss M and Mr S say they both could have relied on at least 6 months full 
sick pay. But the benefit of either policy would have been of use to Miss M and Mr S 
during a difficult time in addition to these benefits. I think, on balance, Miss M and Mr 
S had a need for this cover for any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I 
also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would 
make the policies unsuitable for them either.
HSBC has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policies 
that Miss M and Mr S took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
the cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
Miss M and Mr S in a clear and fair way at the time of each sale. That said, even if 
they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Miss M and Mr S would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policies for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policies being suitable.
Its possible HSBC didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Miss M and Mr S wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion I do not uphold Miss M and Mr Ss complaint.
Finally, Miss M and Mr S say Miss M was out of work on a number of occasions but didnt 
claim benefit. They have provided further information about this. Miss M may wish to 
approach the insurer again to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a 
retrospective claim. If they do pursue a retrospective claim and find that they have concerns 
in this regard, then they should first express those concerns to the insurer, and if unable to 
reach a satisfactory conclusion, they may be able to bring a complaint relating to the 
retrospective claim to this service as a separate matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss M and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman