DRN-4336573
The complaint
Mr I complains about Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltds (Fortegra) handling of his 
claim under his appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr I reported a fault with his washing machine, following which an 
engineer attended a few days later and established some parts would need to be ordered 
and a return visit would need to be arranged to carry out the repair. Over a period of just 
over a month, a number of appointments were rearranged due to the parts not arriving. 
Fortegra also said an engineer did attend but had to leave as they werent able to find a 
parking space and couldnt contact Mr I. The claim was eventually settled with a cash 
payment, but Mr I complained about the rearranged appointments and an engineer not 
attending an appointment after Mr I had taken a days leave from work. Mr I also complained 
about inaccurate information given by an agent about the engineers visit. 
Fortegra responded and explained visits had to be rearranged due to the parts not arriving in 
time for the appointments. Fortegra said a visit was rearranged for 21 February 2023 but the 
engineer couldnt find a parking space and tried calling Mr I but there was no answer, so 
they were asked to move on. Fortegra said another appointment was arranged, but when the 
engineer attended, he discovered the wrong part had arrived. Fortegra explained a decision 
was then taken the same day to replace Mr Is washing machine and a cash settlement had 
been agreed and paid to Mr I. Fortegra said the period between repair to replacement was 
35 days which, while longer than they would like and outside their usual service, they 
couldnt identify any avoidable delays.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr I. He upheld the complaint and recommended 
Fortegra pay Mr I £150 compensation. Fortegra havent responded and Mr I asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the complaint, so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr I will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I think its important to add, I wont be commenting on every event during 
the claim, instead I have taken a broad approach to the overall service provided. 
Ive looked at the claim notes provided by Fortegra, and this shows there were a number of 
occasions where appointments were rearranged. For example, an appointment was 
arranged for 14 February 2023, but the notes say this was rearranged due to the parts not 
arriving in time. A further appointment was arranged for 17 February but, again, the notes 
show this was rearranged due to the parts not arriving in time. I can see parts were ordered 
but on occasions these had to be cancelled as the parts werent dispatched within the 
service level agreement Fortegra have with their supplier. So, while I accept it was 
frustrating for Mr I to have appointments rearranged, I cant say it was unreasonable for 
Fortegra to do this if they didnt have the necessary parts to carry out the repairs. 
Its not clear though whether the parts werent dispatched due to them not being in stock  in 
which case I cant say Fortegra are responsible for any delay, or if this was down to their 
suppliers not dispatching the parts in time  in which case, being their agent, I think Fortegra 
are responsible for any delays. Given that Fortegra havent provided any evidence showing 
the issue was down to a shortage in stock, I think there were delays here attributable to 
Fortegra. The claim notes also show the visit on 14 February had to be rearranged due to 
the part being lost. 
The notes refer to an engineer visiting on 21 February, but they werent able to find a parking 
space, and being unable to contact Mr I due to Fortegra having the wrong number, the 
engineer left. During a webchat with an agent, Mr I queries why an engineer hasnt attended 
and the agent explains he did attend and left a card as there was no answer at the door. I 
understand Mr I believes the engineer didnt attend as no card was left and he didnt knock 
on his door. The agent then later explains to Mr I the engineer wouldnt have been able to 
knock on his door as he didnt have a parking space. So, it appears the original information 
Mr I was given about the engineer knocking on his door and leaving a card wasnt correct, 
but I think the impact of this is limited as the information was corrected during the same 
webchat. The claim notes show the engineer called an agent at Fortegra to say he needs a 
permit to park and has tried to call Mr I, but the number isnt connecting. The notes say the 
agent tried calling Mr I also, but they were experiencing the same issue. The webchat notes 
show, during Mr Is communication with Fortegra, the agent noted they held an incorrect 
number for Mr I. So, based on the information Ive seen, I think, on the balance of 
probabilities, its more likely than not the engineer did attend but was unable to speak with 
Mr I due to having the wrong number.  
 
While I cant say the engineer didnt attend, I do think there is an issue here in relation to this 
visit. Mr I raises the point that the engineer who first attended, parked in his drive so he 
queries why the second engineer didnt do the same. I agree with Mr Is point here as I 
havent seen anything to suggest the first engineer experienced any problems in parking in 
Mr Is drive, so I believe the second engineer couldve also parked there. As the repair 
couldnt be carried out, the engineer left, and the notes show the part was then returned by 
Fortegra and had to be re-ordered. Its not clear why this action was taken particularly as its 
reasonable to expect the part was still required to carry out the repairs to Mr Is washing 
machine. So, I think this delay was avoidable. 
Taking this all into account, I think Mr I has been caused upset, frustration and 
inconvenience. I think the claim took longer than it shouldve, and this is down to errors on 
the part of Fortegra. So, I think compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I can see Mr I wants Fortegra to refund his premium, but I dont believe thats reasonable 
here. I say this because Mr I has benefited from the policy in that his claim has been settled. 
Mr I also says he had to take his washing to a launderette which has cost him £150. Mr I 
says he doesnt have any bank statements or receipts to prove this as the money was paid 
in cash. I acknowledge Mr I says he can ask the launderette to provide a letter setting out 
the money he has spent, but the terms and conditions of Mr Is policy sets out a general 
exclusion for any consequential losses of any type, which the policy says includes loss of use of the product. So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair to ask Fortegra 
to cover these costs. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Fortegra have made errors which have had an impact on Mr I. So, 
they should pay Mr I compensation of £150. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd 
must pay Mr I £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman