DRN-4084958
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) held an incorrect address for her 
for some years.
What happened
Mrs D held accounts with Barclays, including a credit card and a current account. It recorded 
her address for each of these accounts slightly differently, which she says resulted in errors 
in things being posted to her.
Barclays says that the incorrect form of the address was one which had been input by Mrs D 
herself, who had amended it through online banking or the online banking app in July 2014. 
It says that this has now been amended on their systems so that both the credit card and 
bank account show the same, correct, address. It says that her account statements were 
produced online, rather than being sent out to her.
Mrs D says that, while she might have amended the address, Barclays had sometimes used 
the correct address for her, demonstrating that they had received her correct address details 
at some point and failed to consistently use them. She says that it took too long to get to the 
bottom of this during our investigation, and that this has caused her a significant degree of 
inconvenience.
Barclays upheld Mrs Ds complaint. It agreed that having two different addresses for her had 
caused her some inconvenience, and paid her £50 to reflect this.
Our investigator thought that, as the incorrect address had been provided by Mrs D, and 
they had corrected it once the proper address was confirmed to them, Barclays had not done 
anything wrong. They did not think that it needed to do anything more.
Mrs D did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision and have reviewed the responses from both Mrs D and Barclays. 
Barclays accepted the outcome I described in my provisional decision, but Mrs D wanted me 
to consider some additional points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision included the following:
Some elements of Mrs Ds complaint have already been investigated by this service, leading 
to a final decision from an ombudsman. I have not included those elements in my decision 
here, but have considered those issues where I consider them to be relevant background to 
this complaint.
Barclays provide a number of products, including credit cards, under slightly different trading 
names. Barclays is ultimately the business that provides the products Mrs D has with it here 
 and so I have considered what it has done in relation to both the current account and credit 
card here.
The addresses held by Barclays on Mrs Ds current account and credit card account were 
different. It appears that a building name and street name have been swapped, or else a 
similar error made. The system notes provided by Barclays show that the change was made 
on the evening of 17 July 2014, either through online banking or the app. Given this, I think it 
is more likely than not that this change was made by Mrs D, and that she made a slight error 
in completing the relevant fields.
Mrs D argues that the correct address must have been provided, but not updated properly, 
at some stage, as she sometimes received things to the correct address. But it has always 
been agreed that Barclays held the correct address for her on its systems in relation to one 
of her accounts - her bank account. So I think that, even with the incorrect address being on 
her credit card account, some of the Barclays post would be sent correctly.
I have considered whether Barclays ought to have noticed that the addresses it held were 
different, and so made further enquiries on the point. But the postcodes for each of the 
addresses is the same, as is the property number. In the ordinary course of things, I think it 
was reasonable that the error was not noticed by the bank. But Mrs D had previously raised 
an issue about not receiving post from the bank. I think that this should have drawn the 
banks attention to the addresses. Upon proper and careful reading, the difference would 
have been clear and then further enquiries could have been made. I think this would have 
dealt with the present complaint far sooner, and by March 2021 in any event.
I am satisfied, then, that the slight discrepancy in the addresses here is something that was 
most likely the result of Mrs D inputting this back in 2014. Given that Mrs Ds statements 
were produced online, rather than being posted out, I can understand why the issue wasnt 
noticed earlier. But I think that the bank should have noticed it when Mrs D raised the issue 
of not receiving post. Once the error was directly brought to the banks attention, it was 
corrected. Since June 2022 the addresses are now correct, albeit including a very slight 
typographical error in the building name. Given that Mrs D has received post including this 
typo, I am satisfied that this is not an error which has caused any issues.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that the bank has not acted fairly toward Mrs D. It should 
have noticed the underlying error around a year earlier than it did. This caused Mrs D 
additional distress and inconvenience. I think that an additional £150 would properly reflect 
this.
Mrs D considers that the evidence supports a finding that she had properly provided the 
correct address at various points, and that Barclays had wrongly confirmed that the address 
had been properly checked. It is agreed by Barclays that it held two different addresses for 
her. And I agree that Barclays ought to have noticed this discrepancy earlier. It is on this 
basis that I awarded the additional £150 in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused 
to her by that unreasonable delay. While I can understand that Mrs D thinks that the award ought to be higher, I am satisfied 
that the additional £150 properly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
mistake. I understand that this money has been credited to Mrs Ds account. On that basis, I 
am not going to ask Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to pay 
Mrs D £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays has said that it's done that 
and if that is the case, it need take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman