DRN-3638160
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr H and Mrs Y hold with Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax. Mr H and Mrs Ys complaint is that, after they had chosen a new five-year fixed 
rate mortgage interest rate product (but before they completed on that new rate), they saw a 
lower rate but were told they would need to make a fresh application for that rate. Because 
they were concerned at the length of time this might take, Mr H and Mrs Y didnt apply for 
the lower rate and believe they were placed under duress to complete on their chosen rate.
To settle the complaint, Mr H and Mrs Y would like the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
consider their right to terminate the contract and to pay a financial settlement to cover their 
economic loss as a result of them being unable to search the mortgage market for a lower 
rate during the period they are tied into the five-year fixed-rate product.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 11 March 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr H and Mrs Y being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr H and Mrs Y had a mortgage with Halifax that was split into various sub-accounts. 
Initially the sub-accounts had all been operating on one rate following a product switch in 
October 2016 which was due to end on 31 January 2019. But in April 2017 new borrowing 
was taken out, and that was on a new sub-account at a different fixed rate product that was 
due to end in July 2019. 
Halifaxs records show that Mr H and Mrs Y initially consulted Halifax in early January 2019.  
Mr H and Mrs Y had a meeting with a Halifax mortgage adviser on 30 January 2019, when 
they discussed their mortgage, and additional borrowing of about £29,000 for home 
improvements. On the same date,  Halifax issued a recommendation for a new interest rate 
product, a five-year fixed rate at 2.64% and the application was submitted to underwriters. 
At the meeting, the mortgage adviser explained that the mortgage would be operating on two 
separate rates, because of the different expiry dates of the sub-accounts. He said that rates 
could be reviewed up to ten days before funds were released in relation to the sub-account 
and new borrowing. Mr H and Mrs Y wanted to get their additional borrowing in place within 
the next month, as they had a builder lined up. 
This wasnt simply a product switch, because the new borrowing required an assessment of 
affordability, so the application had to be submitted to underwriters.
The mortgage offer for the product transfer of the five sub-accounts and the new borrowing 
was issued on 13 February 2019 and the additional £29,000 was released that day. The 
mortgage had operated on Standard Variable Rate (SVR) of 4.24% for the month of 
February 2019 (because the previous product had expired) but the new rate came into effect 
on 1 March 2019.
However, before completing on their mortgage, Mr H and Mrs Y had seen a new Halifax 
fixed-rate product at 2.54%. Mr H and Mrs Y emailed the adviser on 7 February 2019 asking 
about the new rate, and followed this up with a phone call. 
Mr H says: The mortgage advisor didnt offer how long the re-mortgage would take. As 
advised by the mortgage advisor that we would have to re-apply, we took this to mean we 
start the process again, i.e. start with booking an appointment 
Mr H and Mrs Y say they were not given any timescale for a new application (and didnt ask) 
but assumed this would take a few weeks. They say that if theyd been told this then we 
would have waited, as any reasonable person would have..
The mortgage completed on the rate of 2.64% on the five-year fixed rate product. The 
remaining sub-account was transferred onto a new product in August 2019 after the existing 
rate expired on 31 July 2019.
On 10 August 2021 Mr H and Mrs Y complained to Halifax. They said that they had asked if 
they could update their application and look to change to the lower rate theyd found in 
February 2019 (before theyd completed on their new product). Theyd been told theyd need 
to complete a new application and they believed this would take months to complete. As a 
result, theyd felt forced and pressurised by the mortgage adviser to stay with and accept the 
product and rate theyd originally agreed to.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint and Mr H and Mrs Y referred it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They wanted our service to rule on the An investigator looked at what 
had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr H and Mrs Y didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr H and Mrs Y clarified their position, as follows. Initially the 
investigator had thought that Mr H and Mrs Y hadnt had a response to their email to the 
adviser on 7 February 2019 about a lower interest rate product. 
However, Mr H and Mrs Y explained that there had been a conversation with the adviser 
who explained theyd need to apply for the new rate. Mr H and Mrs Y say they assumed this 
meant they would need to start the application again, booking a new appointment and going 
through the application process. Mr H and Mrs Y say that, a reasonable person, based on 
the length of time the mortgage application had taken to date, would not seek to re-apply 
and risk being on SR for possibly several months.
Mr H and Mrs Y say that they consider the mortgage contract should be considered invalid 
because Halifax didnt act in good faith and because Mr H and Mrs Y entered into the 
contract under duress, specifically presumed undue influence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of theFinancial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
Consequently, although Ive noted the points Mr H and Mrs Y have made about whether or 
not their mortgage contract is valid and the case law theyve cited in support of their 
arguments, I dont have any power to determine the validity of a contract; only a court is able 
to decide this.
The crux of this complaint is that, after theyd applied for a 2.64% interest rate on their 
mortgage, along with additional borrowing, Mr H and Mrs Y spotted a lower rate of interest. 
When they asked the mortgage adviser about this, they were told that, if they wanted a new 
rate, theyd need to apply for it. Although they didnt ask about timescales, Mr H and Mrs Y 
assumed it would take several weeks for a new application to be processed, and so they 
decided not to go ahead with it.
When an interest rate product is offered to the market, it is only available for a short time. 
Thats because Halifax would have borrowed in the outside markets at a particular rate, 
which in turn would allow it to lend to customers at a specific rate. Customers would need to 
apply for a tranche of funds, and once all the funds are used up, the product is no longer 
available and is withdrawn. 
So the adviser was correct in saying that Mr H and Mrs Y would have needed to have 
applied for a new interest rate product if they wanted to change from the product theyd 
previously selected. But that didnt mean they would have needed to begin their entire 
mortgage application  including the application for further funding  again.  
Mr H and Mrs Y have confirmed that they didnt ask about a timescale to switch interest rate 
products; instead they made an assumption that this would take several weeks. This wasnt 
as a result of anything Halifax told them; it was Mr H and Mrs Ys own assumption. Given 
this, Im not persuaded they were either misled or pressured into completing on the product 
theyd previously chosen. 
In the circumstances, there is no basis on which I could reasonably find that Halifax has 
done anything wrong. As I said at the outset, I dont have any power to determine whether or 
not a contract is, or is not, valid or enforceable. If Mr H and Mrs Y decide not to accept my 
decision, they are, of course, free to pursue their grievances against Halifax in court, where 
they can ask the judge to determine whether or not they are bound by the contract they 
entered into in February 2019. If Mr H and Mrs Y decide to pursue the matter in court I would 
suggest they take legal advice from a solicitor before doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman