DRN-2780747
The complaint
Mr B has complained that UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) salvage agent disposed of or mislaid 
his personal belongings after his car went to them following a claim under his car insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident and he claimed under his car insurance policy with 
UKI. They decided his car was a write-off and sent Mr Bs car to their salvage agent. Mr B 
had some personal belongings in the car and asked if he could have them back. He said 
there was some race chips, a Bluetooth headset and the remote control for the in car audio 
system. The salvage agent couldnt find them and - in the end - they offered to pay for the 
Bluetooth headset. And UKI offered to pay a further amount on the basis Mr Bs policy 
provided some cover for personal belongings. And UKI offered Mr B a further £50 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.    
Mr B wasnt happy with what he was offered and complained to UKI. But UKI wouldnt pay 
the full cost of replacing the remaining items. So, he complained to us.
One of our investigators suggested UKI should cover the cost of the personal belongings in 
full and pay a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience Mr B had experienced. UKI 
didnt agree to do this.
I reviewed Mr Bs complaint and wrote to UKI suggesting they pay the full cost of all the 
items that were in the car, less anything the salvage agent had already paid, as 
compensation. I explained this was on the basis the salvage agent shouldnt have disposed 
of or lost Mr Bs personal belongings. I also said UKI should pay Mr B £150 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. I gave UKI until 26 April to let me know whether it would do 
this. 
UKI hasnt replied to my email and thats why Im issuing this final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has maintained all along that there were three items in the car belonging to him when it 
went to UKIs salvage agent. And he has provided receipts for all three items. The salvage 
agent seems to have suggested these items cant have been in the car, as they checked it 
when it came to them. But I dont think they checked properly, as when they were challenged 
with an image of the Bluetooth headset actually in the car, they accepted theyd missed this. 
The race chips were in the glove compartment, so I think it is most likely the salvage agent 
missed these, despite having access to the glove compartment. And the remote control was 
in the centre console with the Bluetooth headset. And, if the salvage agent missed the 
headset, I think its most likely they missed the remote control as well. 
UKI are responsible for the actions of their salvage agents. And I think a salvage agent 
should properly check any car that comes to them as a result of an insurance claim with UKI 
for personal belongings and return them to the owner. And I think its clear UKIs salvage 
agent failed to do this in Mr Bs case. UKI has argued that Mr B told them he was going to 
return the race chips. And, I presume from this, that they think this means he may have 
already done so. But Mr B has explained that he had originally intended to do this, but 
decided to keep them and get them fitted. Hes gone on to explain this got delayed due to 
the pandemic and thats why they were still in the glove compartment. And I accept this was 
the case.  
Therefore, I think UKI should pay Mr B the full replacement cost of all the items concerned, 
less anything the salvage agent has already paid. And the easiest way to achieve this is for 
UKI to pay what it cost Mr B to buy the items, as the replacement cost is likely to be the 
same. This is not as a claim under the policy, but as compensation due to the failure of the 
salvage agent to fulfil their obligations to Mr B as UKIs customer. The full amount for the 
three items is £619.98. Ive checked with Mr B and he has had the money for the Bluetooth 
headset from the salvage agent. So, UKI must pay him for the remaining items.
I also think the whole episode of having to argue with the salvage agent and UKI about the 
items. And the persistent refusal of the salvage agent and UKI to accept the items were in 
the car, when it seemed clear all along that they were, caused Mr B a great deal of distress 
and inconvenience. So, I agree with our investigator that £150 in compensation is 
appropriate for this.  
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr B £593.99 for the remote control and race chips that were in his car when 
it went to the salvage agent. And £150 in total in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. UKI will only have to pay £100 for distress and inconvenience if theyve 
already paid Mr B the £50 they offered in compensation. And if theyve paid anything 
towards the missing items they can deduct this. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint and order UK Insurance Limited to pay him 
£593.99 for his personal belongings and £150 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. But, UKI can deduct anything theyve already paid Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman