DRN-3147955
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has settled their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held an annual multi trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. They were 
due to travel to Russia, but unfortunately the trip got cancelled. The travel company agreed 
to hold the deposit paid for future travel, so no claim for this was made.
However, in order to travel to Russia, Mr and Mrs C needed visas which they had to obtain 
in person from the Russian Embassy. Mr and Mrs C claimed for the cost of the visa and for 
the train fare incurred getting to and from the Embassy. Great Lakes agreed to pay for the 
cost of the visa, but said they werent covered for the travel expenses. It said the policy 
covered them for unused travel and considered these travel expenses as used. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this outcome. They complained to Great Lakes and 
subsequently brought the matter to this service. They said that the visit to the Embassy was 
a mandatory part of obtaining the visa and so the travel should be considered along with the 
visas. One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and didnt recommend 
it be upheld. She found that Great Lakes had considered the claim in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions when not paying for the travel to obtain the visa. So, she didnt 
think it needed to pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs C. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Great Lakes has settled some of the claim - so 
the circumstances of the claim are not in dispute. But what I need to consider is whether 
Great Lakes has acted fairly when reaching its settlement figure.
Great Lakes has said it has considered the cost of the visas as these are unused but the 
train tickets to the Embassy arent covered as the cancellation section only provides cover 
for unused travel. The relevant part of the policy states the following:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of 
any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and 
other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay.
Mr and Mrs Cs train tickets were used when they travelled to the Embassy to obtain their 
visas. Based on the wording in the policy as shown above, there is no cover for these 
expenses, so Im persuaded that Great Lakes has acted reasonably when refusing to cover 
this cost.
Mr and Mrs C say that the travel was necessary in order to obtain the visas and therefore 
this should be considered together with the visa, which was an unused expense. I can 
understand their view, but insurers are entitled to decide what they will and wont provide 
cover for. Ultimately Mr and Mrs C did use these train tickets, and therefore I cannot fairly 
say these should be refunded. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Great Lakes has acted in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions when declining to pay for the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs used 
train tickets. And the outcome reached is fair and reasonable. I therefore dont require Great 
Lakes to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman