DRN-3130395
The complaint
Mr B complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has turned down a 
curtailment claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr B booked a flight from a crown-dependency Ill call G to a UK city 
through an online travel agent. He took out a travel insurance policy through the travel agent 
at the same time. This policy was a Cancellation and Postponement Plan. He was due to fly 
on 29 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all 
UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. On the same day, the UK government announced 
wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown.
Mr Bs airline cancelled his pre-booked flight. So Mr B had to book a new flight and travelled 
back to another city in the UK.  He incurred new flight costs and he had to travel by train to 
the city hed originally planned to return to. Mr B also lost out on some earnings due to 
having to return early from G. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs 
associated with cutting short his trip, including his lost earnings. He also claimed for his 
cancelled flight, as the airline had refused to refund the booking cost.
AIG turned down the claim. While it said the policy did cover claims which arose due to 
changes in FCDO advice, this only applied if the advice was against travel to an area outside 
of a policyholders home country. As it considered Mr B to have been travelling within the 
UK, it didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms.
Mr B disagreed and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. While he accepted that Mr 
Bs flight had likely been cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic, he thought the policy 
made it clear that it only applied to international trips. As Mr B was travelling back to the UK, 
the investigator didnt think the claim was covered. He also noted that in any event, the 
policy only covered costs which had been pre-paid through the online travel agent. And there 
was an exclusion in the policy for indirect losses, such as loss of income. So he thought it 
was fair for AIG to turn down Mr Bs claim.
Mr B disagreed. He felt the investigator had concluded that the flight hadnt been cancelled 
due to the pandemic. But the pandemic had been the reason why the flight was cancelled. If 
the FCDO hadnt advised against travel, the flight wouldnt have been cancelled. So he 
considered the claim should be covered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think it was fair for AIG to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether 
AIG treated him fairly.
Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with AIG. The policy is a Trip Cancellation and Postponement Plan. The 
cancellation cover only relates to trips which are cancelled pre-departure. In this case, I dont 
think Mr Gs trip was cancelled. It seems to me that while his return flight was cancelled, in 
fact, his trip was cut short. So Ive considered the terms relating to Trip Postponement. This 
says:
If it is necessary and unavoidable that You have to alter Your Trip as a result of one (1)
or more of the covered events listed under Section A3, We will pay up to the amount shown 
in the Table of Benefits for:
the reasonable and necessary additional costs incurred You paid to re-schedule Your Trip,
Section A3 lists the specific, insured events AIG covers for both cancellation and trip 
postponement. This includes the following:
epidemic or pandemic for which a declaration or other similar publication is issued by the 
government of Your Country of Residence or the World Health Organisation advising 
against travel to infected areas outside of Your Country of Residence. (emphasis 
added).
I think the policy terms make it clear that AIG will pay claims caused by pandemics, but only 
where a government has advised against travel outside of a policyholders own country. This 
means that the cover only applies to international travel.
In this case, its clear that the FCDO did advise against all but essential travel abroad as a 
result of Covid-19. And that the UK government imposed lockdown in the UK because of the 
pandemic. But Mr B wasnt flying abroad. He was returning to the UK from a crown-
dependency, G. And G is included in AIGs definition of the UK which is set out in the 
contract. So while I acknowledge that Mr Bs airline did cancel his pre-booked flight because 
of Covid-19, I cant fairly find that Mr B was taking a flight to an area outside of his own 
country. He was flying back to his own country. Im satisfied too that the policy terms make it 
clear that AIG considers G to be part of the UK for the purposes of this insurance and that 
therefore, Mr Gs flight was effectively a domestic one.
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for AIG to conclude that Mr Bs claim as a whole 
wasnt covered by the policy terms.
AIG has also listed specific things which the policy doesnt cover. The Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) sets out an at a glance summary of the main benefits of the 
policy and significant exclusions. Under the What is not insured section, the IPID says:
Products and services not booked through (the online travel agent).The policy Introduction also sets out that cover only applies to products and services 
booked through the online travel agent. So I think the policy makes it clear that AIG will only 
cover costs which have been booked with the online travel agent. In this case, it isnt clear 
that Mr Bs train tickets were booked through the online travel agent and so I dont think 
these wouldve been covered even if the claim itself had been valid. 
And the policy also specifically excludes: any indirect losses, costs, charges or expenses 
(meaning losses, costs, charges or expenses that are not listed under the headings What 
You are covered for' in Your Benefits Under This Policy (for example loss of earnings if you 
cannot work)
I appreciate that as a result of having to return on an earlier flight, Mr B suffered a loss of 
earnings for reasons outside of his control and I dont doubt how frustrating this was. But not 
only are lost earnings not a service booked through the online travel agent, theyre also 
specifically excluded by the terms of the policy.
So even if I had concluded that AIG shouldve accepted Mr Bs claim, (which I havent) I 
think its very likely that most parts of it wouldve been excluded from any settlement.
I understand Mr Bs airline hasnt offered him a refund of his original flight costs, despite 
cancelling the flight. Its open to Mr B to get in touch with the airline regulator should he wish 
to pursue this aspect of his claim further.
But overall, despite my sympathy with Mr Bs position, I find that it was fair and reasonable 
for AIG to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman