DRN-4393738
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the service provided by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax after 
shed reported a problem with a roofer.
What happened
Mrs D employed a roofer. Shed used the roofer in the past. But on this occasion the roofer 
took payment but didnt carry out the work.
Mrs D says she contacted Halifax in December 2022 and it directed her to Action Fraud. Mrs 
D waited for several months for Action Fraud to confirm that it couldnt help. She got back in 
touch with Halifax in April 2023, but it later wrote to her to say that the matter was a civil 
dispute and it couldnt help. In its final response letter it paid her £40 to reflect the confusion 
it had caused but also said that it fully agreed with her complaint. Mrs D doesnt appear to 
have received that letter (and a copy, when it was re-sent) and had to contact Halifax again 
to ask for its response.
Halifax wrote to Mrs D again. It apologised for saying that it had fully agreed with her 
complaint and paid her a further £40 compensation. It also explained why it could not 
consider the matter under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code that requires signatories to reimburse victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. It said that it thought that the matter was a civil dispute, which are 
excluded from being considered under the CRM Code.
Mrs D referred the matter to our service. She accepted that she had a civil dispute with the 
roofer but was disappointed with the way in which Halifax had handled the dispute. She 
thought that it ought to have told her straight away that it couldnt help and it had caused her 
unnecessary inconvenience, particularly considering her age and health.
Our investigator considered the complaint but thought that the compensation already paid to 
Mrs D fairly reflected the inconvenience caused, so they didnt ask Halifax to do anything 
further. 
Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint afresh, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about whats happened to Mrs D  it must have been very disappointing for 
her to have paid for work to be carried out that never took place, particularly as I understand 
she suffers from poor health. But Mrs D seems to accept that the roofer wasnt a fraudster 
and I agree that finding isnt supported by the facts, so I cant consider whether Halifax ought 
to refund the payments she made under the CRM Code.
 
I can also understand why shed want a clear and immediate answer from Halifax about 
whether it could help. Ive seen notes relating to a call which took place towards the end of 
November 2022 in which Halifax suggested it could raise a scam claim. I havent seen 
evidence of the call during which Action Fraud was discussed (and I understand Halifax are 
unable to locate it), but Halifax doesnt dispute that it directed her to that organisation, when 
it probably ought to have simply said that it couldnt help. It appears that Mrs D was waiting 
for Action Fraud to respond to her for some time, before it finally told her that it couldnt help 
and that she should go back to Halifax. I can also see that Halifax made a mistake in one of 
its letters (though it doesnt appear that Mrs D actually received that letter until later).
Ive thought about whether the compensation paid by Halifax fairly reflects the inconvenience 
caused to Mrs D and, in doing so, Ive taken into account what shes said about her age and 
health. 
I think that it does, so I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further. I think that the majority 
of the distress and inconvenience here has been caused by the roofer, not Halifax. And 
though it may have directed her to Action Fraud, it was Action Fraud that appears to have 
taken some time to tell her that it couldnt help. Once Mrs D did get back in touch with 
Halifax it appears to have responded to her concerns, and acknowledged its failings, fairly 
promptly. Its unfortunate that Mrs D didnt receive the first final response letter issued by 
Halifax (and a copy when it was re-sent), causing her to contact it again, but Ive seen a 
copy of that letter which is correctly addressed and dated and there isnt enough evidence 
for me to conclude that it wasnt sent. It also appears that the bank did communicate the 
outcome of the complaint by phone before the letter was sent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have already 
done enough to resolve this complaint, so I do not uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman