DRN-2732499
The complaint
Mr K complains that Jaja Finance Ltd has unfairly declined his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In June 2018 Mr K ordered various items of furniture to be put into his holiday flat that was 
undergoing construction work. He paid for the items with his credit card that was provided by 
Jaja Finance.
Unfortunately, there were a number of delays before the property was completed and so Mr 
K didnt unpack the furniture until 15 months after it had been delivered. He then discovered 
that the two beds hed received as part of the order had each been supplied with a missing 
part meaning they couldnt be assembled. Mr K complained to the retailer who didnt assist 
him. He subsequently made a claim under Section 75 to Jaja Finance for the cost of all of 
the furniture as he said it had been purchased as a matching set.
Jaja Finance declined the claim under both the chargeback scheme and Section 75. In 
regard to chargeback, it said that Mr K was out of time as more than 120 days had passed 
since the items had been purchased. And in regard to a Section 75 claim, it said that it was 
satisfied no breach of contract or misrepresentation had occurred. This was because under 
the retailers terms and conditions it was the responsibility of the customer to check the 
merchandise at the time of delivery. The terms also set out that a customer had 365 days in 
which to return items or claim a refund. It said Mr K had sought a refund outside of this time 
limit.
Mr K complained to Jaja Finance about both its decision and the length of time it had taken 
to reach it. He said he disagreed that the 365 days time-limit to return items or seek a refund 
applied. He said the retailer had accepted that the error was their fault when he had 
contacted them on the phone. 
Jaja Finance reviewed its decision but didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint that the decision to 
decline his claim had been unfair. It offered him £50 compensation for the delay in dealing 
with his claim.
Mr K complained to this service. He said it had been outside of his control how long he had 
the furniture before being able to unpack it and that the beds couldnt be used. He said that 
Jaja Finance had the same responsibility as the retailer to reimburse him for the defective 
items and that he would like to be full refunded for the furniture hed purchased as it had 
been bought as a set.
Jaja Finance provided a response to this service about Mr Ks complaint. It said that for 
Section 75 to apply each individual item purchased must be between £100 and £30,000 and 
here the two beds cost around £85 each. Our investigator said that in these circumstances 
Mr K wasnt able to make a claim under Section 75 and so Jaja Finance hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining it. He recommended that Mr Ks claim wasnt upheld.
   
Mr K disagrees with our investigators view. He says that he ordered the furniture as set 
which compromised of a number of items including chest of drawers, wardrobes together 
with the beds. As it was a set then it wasnt the individual price of the beds that should be 
considered but the total for the furniture which was just over £1000.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to claim against the 
credit provider if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the 
goods and services. My role when looking at Mr Ks complaint is not to decide whether a 
breach or misrepresentation occurred but whether Jaja Finance dealt with his claim fairly.
Here, the view of Jaja Finance appears to have altered, as it firstly said there was no breach 
of contract or misrepresentation because Mr K hadnt abided by the terms and conditions set 
by the retailer. Namely, that he should have checked the items when they were delivered 
and should have sought to return the items and request a refund within the 365 days time-
limit provided. However, Jaja Finance, on further review, says that Section 75 doesnt apply 
because the cost of the two beds involved is less than £100 each.
I accept that the two beds were supplied with pieces missing and so couldnt be assembled, 
but before I need to consider whether Jaja Finance dealt with the issue of a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation fairly, I need to be satisfied that Mr K was entitled to make a 
Section 75 claim for the furniture.
Looking at the wording of Section 75 it states it doesnt apply to claim if it relates to any 
single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100.. Ive seen 
that Mr K says that as his order was for a furniture set then this cost limitation does not 
apply.
Although I appreciate this is going to be of disappointment to Mr K, I dont agree with his 
view that the furniture is a set and so the whole cost of the various items should be taken 
into account for the purposes of a claim under Section 75 and I will explain why. 
I accept that Mr K purchased the two beds, chests of drawers and a wardrobe all from the 
same series so that theyd match. And while Ive also seen that he ordered a table and 
chairs from a different series Ive not taken that into account when looking at whether the 
furniture being a set meant that the price of the goods exceeded £100. 
Ive seen that the furniture wasnt sold as one complete set and consumers were able to 
decide whether they wanted one piece or multiple pieces to match. A consumer could 
choose which pieces to buy and whether to buy pieces together or at different times. So, Mr 
K didnt have to buy these items together but chose to do so.  Im satisfied each piece of 
furniture was available as a single item and had their own individual price. So, looking at the 
wording of Section 75, I cant reasonable say that each of the beds wasnt a single item to 
which the retailer had attached a cash price of less than £100. 
As the two beds were single items costing less than £100 then, unfortunately, Mr K isnt able 
to make a Section 75 claim having found that the beds are defective.Mr K says he didnt make a chargeback claim and was surprised Jaja Finance had looked at 
that scheme. But I think it acted fairly in doing so and its something I would have expected 
Jaja Finance to do in these circumstances. Chargeback claims can be made if items cost 
less than £100 but they do have time-limits for when a claim can be made. Unfortunately, 
due to the amount of time that had passed since Mr K had purchased the beds, he was 
outside of this scheme.
So, for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I think Jaja Finance 
acted fairly in declining his claim under Section 75.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman