DRN-4503134
The complaint
Ms R complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc said it would charge her a late payment fee for a
missed direct debit, and that this led to her contents insurance policy being cancelled.
What happened
Ms R held contents insurance cover that was taken out through Sainsburys.
Sainsburys attempted to collect Ms Rs monthly premium by direct debit on 1 April, but
couldnt do so because she had insufficient funds in her account. Sainsburys wrote to Ms R
about this, and said it would try and take the premium again. It also said it would apply a £20
late payment fee which would be taken in May.
Ms R called Sainsburys on 11 April to see if the late payment fee could be waived because
she was in financial difficulties. She says she understood that someone from the finance
team would call her back to confirm if the fee could be spread across her remaining
payments.
Sainsburys didnt call Mrs R back, so she wrote a letter of complaint on 14 April and said
she was concerned that no one had been in touch with her about the late payment fee. She
said if the £20 fee were added to her May payment, then there may not be enough funds in
her bank account for this, and she could end up with a second late payment fee.
Ms R didnt receive a response from Sainsburys, and she was worried about not having
sufficient funds in her account for the May payment. She therefore cancelled her direct debit
with her bank, but paid her May premium via the online portal.
Sainsburys wrote to Ms R to explain it had been notified by her bank that there was an issue
with her direct debit instruction. It said if it didnt hear from her within seven days to arrange
a new direct debit instruction, it may cancel her policy. When Sainsburys didnt hear from
Ms R, it wrote to her again on 10 May about the matter, and then finally on 22 May to
confirm her policy had been cancelled. It also said she had an outstanding balance of £36.83 
to pay.
Sainsburys responded to Ms Rs complaint after this Service got involved, and issued its
final response letter. It said Ms Rs missed premium from April had been spread across her
remaining payments. However, it said its agent should have advised Ms R that her £20 late
payment fee would be removed automatically as a result, and it apologised for not making
this clear. Sainsburys agreed to waive the final balance that Ms R owed due to her financial
difficulties, and also offered her £50 compensation for any inconvenience caused. Unhappy
with this, Ms R brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Sainsburys had
taken appropriate steps to put matters right, and didnt recommend that it do anything
further. He thought Sainsburys had been entitled to cancel the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2023. Heres what I said:
Ive read Ms Rs credit agreement with Sainsburys. This says that if the monthly payment
isnt made in full by the payment due date, then a late payment fee of £20 would be added to
the amount owed, to cover additional administration costs. So Im satisfied that Ms R agreed
to pay £20 for any late payments.
Having said that, if a consumer is having financial difficulties, I would expect a business to
be sympathetic to this and consider reasonable alternatives. Ive therefore listened to the call
of 11 April to find out what was discussed.
Initially, Sainsburys refused to waive the £20 fee. However, Ms R then explained that she
was in financial difficulties because she couldnt work following an accident. The agent
therefore looked into alternative options for her. He said Ms R could defer her outstanding
April premium, with this amount being spread across her remaining payments. Ms R didnt
actually want this, and instead wanted to pay her April premium that day to bring her
premiums up to date. The agent said she couldnt do this without the £20 late payment fee
being charged in May. The agent told Ms R that someone from the finance team would call
her by the end of that day, or the following day, to confirm the details of her future payments.
However, Sainsburys didnt call Ms R back. And Ms R says the April premium was then
collected by direct debit on 13 April. So she didnt know what was happening with her future
premiums or the late payment fee.
When Sainsbury issued its final response, it said that Ms Rs April premium had been
deferred and spread across her remaining payments. And that because of this, the £20 late
payment fee would be automatically removed. Unfortunately, its agent didnt tell Ms R this. I
think he made it seem as though both her April payment and the £20 fee would be spread
across her remaining payments. Ms R was understandably concerned that her monthly
payments would then become unaffordable, given she was already experiencing financial
difficulties.
Though it appears that the information in Sainsburys final response (relating to the April
premium) was wrong, given that it did collect Ms Rs April premium. Ive looked at
Sainsburys breakdown of Ms Rs premiums. I see the total amount owed was £21.05 higher
than the amount set out in the original credit agreement. Given that the April premium is
shown as being paid, I assume that Sainsburys added on the £20 late payment fee plus 
interest, and then spread this amount across Ms Rs remaining payments. Whilst I dont think
this action was unreasonable (and Ms R would have likely accepted it), this wasnt made
clear to Ms R and ought to have been.
Ms R cancelled her direct debit because she didnt know if the £20 late payment fee would
be charged in May, or if this had been spread across her remaining payments. However,
Ms R says she paid her May premium through Sainsburys online portal, to make sure her
premiums were up to date. She says her premium had increased by £3.50, so she thought
the £20 late payment fee may have been spread across her remaining premiums, but she
couldnt be sure as no one had confirmed this to her.
Overall, I think Sainsburys handled things badly. It was aware that Ms R was a vulnerable
customer given her circumstances, yet it didnt make it clear what her future premiums would
be, or what was happening with the £20 late payment fee. I can understand why Ms R
cancelled her direct debit, given the lack of clarity provided to her by Sainsburys.
Ms Rs policy was cancelled by Sainsburys on 22 May. Given that Ms Rs premiums were
apparently up to date at this point, I think this action was unfair. Ms R says the cancellation
has had an impact on her, as shes struggled to obtain contents insurance elsewhere as shehas to disclose that shes had a policy cancelled.
Sainsburys said Ms R owed £36.83 as her final balance. I dont know if this factored in that
her premiums were apparently paid up to 1 June. But I dont think it matters as Sainsburys
waived the final balance given Ms Rs financial difficulties. I think that was fair in the
circumstances, and this would offset any premium refund she may have been due between
22 May (when the policy was cancelled) and 1 June (when her premiums were apparently
paid up to). In the end, Ms R only paid £3.50 of the £20 late payment fee.
Sainsburys offered Ms R £50 compensation. This was to recognise that its agent hadnt told
her that her £20 late payment fee would be waived if her April premium were deferred. I
intend to require Sainsburys to pay Ms R an additional £100 compensation (bringing the
total to £150). This is for the unnecessary confusion it caused as well as the inconvenience
Ms R experienced, for all the reasons Ive set out above.
As Ive found that Sainsburys cancellation of the policy was unfair, I intend to direct it to
remove any record of this. And to write Ms R a letter apologising for cancelling her policy,
and confirming that it has removed any record of this from any external databases. Ms R can
then show this letter to any current or future insurer.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Ms R responded but didnt have any further comments.
Sainsburys didnt respond to us by the deadline we gave. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new comments or submissions, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision. So Ive reached the same conclusions, 
and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Ms R 
total compensation of £150 (less the £50 previously offered if this has already been paid)*.
I also direct Sainsburys to remove any record of the policy cancellation, and write a
letter to Ms R apologising for cancelling her policy and confirming that it has removed any
record of this from any external databases.
*Sainsburys must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that 
Ms R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman