DRN-3195561
The complaint
Mr W complains about the charges that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as 
ALPHERA Financial Services (Alphera), applied when he handed back a car he had 
acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a 
used car that was first registered in the UK in June 2013. The cash price of the car was 
£9,625. The agreement was set for a duration of 48 months. And the car mileage on delivery 
was approximately 16,728 miles.
On 23 June 2020, Mr W requested to exercise his right of voluntary termination. On 1 July 
2020, Mr W received a letter advising him of the next steps, which included a checklist of 
how to prepare the car for collection. In this correspondence he was advised that an agent 
working for Alphera would contact him to arrange a collection of the car within five working 
days. When Mr W didnt hear back from their agent, he called Alphera who asked him to 
contact their agent directly. After contacting the agent directly, it was agreed that they would 
pick up the car on 3 August 2020, and that they would provide Mr W with an hour notice on 
the day before arriving. 
On 3 August 2020, Mr W said he took the days leave from his job, and towards the later part 
of the day he still hadnt been provided with a notification of when to expect the collection 
agent. So, he decided to call the agents and enquire. That is when he was informed that the 
collection of the car had to be cancelled because of traffic, and a new collection date was set 
for 7 August 2020. On this date the collection agent did arrive, inspected and collected the 
car. Once again Mr W said that he needed to take the days leave from his job. On the 
collection day, Mr W said that he wasnt advised of the findings of the inspection, and only 
received an email with the inspection report on 9 September 2020. In the report it was noted 
that Mr W needed to pay £531 for damages to the car. This was for damages to the car that 
Alphera considered were outside of fair wear and tear. Mr W disagreed as he didnt think the 
charges were fair. He was also unhappy about how the inspection was carried out. Among 
other things, Mr W said the collecting agent didnt have proper Personal Protective 
Equipment (PPE), and didnt ask him to verify the damage or sign the inspections 
declaration at the end. 
In October 2020, Alphera wrote to Mr W. In this correspondence they said that the events Mr 
W informed them about were unacceptable and they apologised for any inconvenience 
caused. They also applied a £50 credit to his account. Mr W has told our service, that when 
Alphera investigated his concerns about the charges being unfair, they told him that they 
couldnt see a scratch on the right-hand front door, so they removed the charge for this 
(£106). Which left the outstanding amount £425 for Mr W to pay. This included: right-hand 
front alloy scratched (£33), front bumper scratched (£45), left-hand rear quarter panel 
scratched (£106), rear bumper scratched (£106), right-hand front seat base cover cut (£29) 
and right-hand front wing scratched (£106).
Mr W was still unhappy with Alphera, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought Alphera should pay Mr 
W a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused in addition to the £50 offered. 
He also thought that it would be unfair for Alphera to charge for damage to the right-hand 
front alloy, the left-hand rear quarter panel and the rear bumper.
Mr W agreed with the investigator, but Alphera disagreed. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the complaint. But I want to assure both 
parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues to reach a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr W acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
Mr Ws agreement with Alphera sets out that he needs to keep and maintain the car in a 
good state of repair and condition. 
Alphera said that the decision to charge for the damage was made in accordance with the 
British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. They said that all the 
damage as seen in the pictures of the inspection report are outside of the BVRLA guidelines. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here,
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body,
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for new cars that have been returned at the 
end of their first finance agreement, so it is used mainly to consider damage to cars that are 
a few years old. But it can also be used for older cars, where the age of a car and the 
number of miles it has covered are taken into account, when considering what would be 
deemed fair wear and tear. Ive also considered that the BVRLA guidance is just that - 
guidance. While I take it into consideration, I also need to take into consideration what is fair 
and reasonable in the situation here. So, I think it is fair that any damage is assessed by 
considering whether its reasonable to expect this type of damage, given the cars age and 
mileage.
The car was around three years old, when Mr W acquired it. It had travelled approximately 
16,728 miles and had a cash price of £9,625. When Mr W handed back the car in 
September 2020, it was approximately seven years old and had travelled around 52,459 
miles. So, Ive taken all of this into consideration when reviewing the damage inspection 
report which was done when the car was collected. And in deciding whether Alphera have 
acted fairly in relation to each charge, Ive taken into consideration the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, as well as the age and mileage of the 
car when it was returned. 
Scuffs, scratches and other paint blemishes 
The BVRLA guidance sets out that surface scratches of 25mm or less, where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out and provided 
that there is a maximum of up to four surface scratches on one panel. From the report I can 
see that the scratches on the right-hand front wing, and on the front bumper, are both very 
deep and through the primer so they cant be polished out.
Upholstery and trim 
The BVRLA guidance says that the upholstery and trim must be clean with no burns, 
scratches, tears, dents or staining. From the report I can see that there is a deep cut in the 
right-hand front seat cover.  
I think most likely all three of the above damages are more than fair wear and tear 
considering the circumstances. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Alphera to charge 
for these damages a total of £180 (£106+£45+£29). And the actual charges themselves 
dont seem unreasonable.  
Alphera also thinks that Mr W should be charged for the scratches on the right-hand front 
alloy (£33), the left-hand rear quarter panel (£106) and the rear bumper (£106). The size of 
all three scratches are just outside of BVRLA guidance considers acceptable. But having 
looked closely at the pictures I think the marks on there can be considered fair wear and 
tear, taking into consideration the age and mileage of the car. Mr Ws car was seven years 
old and had covered around 52,459 miles when he handed it back, so I would expect the 
level of what is considered fair wear and tear to be greater than if Mr W had taken out 
finance on a brand new car. Also like I mentioned above, the BVRLA guidance is just that  
guidance, and it is generally intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of 
their first finance agreement. So, it is used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few 
years old. And yes it can also be used for older cars, such as the one in question, but the 
age of a car and the number of miles it has covered need to be taken into consideration 
when deciding what would be deemed fair wear and tear. 
In addition, Mr W has told our service that Alphera told him that they couldnt see a scratch 
on the right-hand front door, so they removed this £106 charge. I think this was reasonable 
as I also dont see a scratch, which is greater than 25mm through the top coat on that door. 
I know Mr W is also unhappy with the overall service he received from Alphera and their 
agents. In summary, he told us that the long process has put immense stress on him and his 
family and affected his mental health. He is unhappy that he was not given the inspection 
report to sign, and he said that there were long periods when he didnt hear from Alphera. 
He said this made him think that there was no damage that he was responsible for. He has 
also told us that he is unhappy with the service he received from the collecting agents as 
they failed to attend on the agreed date first time around, so he lost an extra day off work. 
He also feels that the agent that collected his car put him and his family at risk because he 
wasnt wearing any PPE. 
Ive taken all of the above into consideration when thinking about the amount of 
compensation Alphera should pay Mr W. But in this case, I will, and can only consider the 
impact this had on Mr W. Also due to government guidelines around Covid-19 I dont think it 
was unfair for Alphera, and businesses operating on their behalf, such as the agent 
collecting the car, to adapt the way they work. So, I cant say that it was unreasonable that 
safety measures were taken to protect the inspector by refraining from having the inspection 
report signed. But I also understand that Mr W was caused a lot of distress and inconvenience, so Ive considered what impact this had on him. I know that Alphera already 
apologised for some of the above and offered to pay Mr W £50 compensation, but I dont 
think that is enough to fairly reflect everything that has happened. I think Alphera should 
increase their compensation by a further £100 to fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience 
that has been caused to Mr W. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to:
1. Pay Mr W a total compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused; 
and 
2. Reduce the outstanding amount due, for damages to the car, from £425 to £180. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman