DRN-3211868
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt give them accurate figures when 
they asked about the impact of a Covid payment deferral on their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with Clydesdale. Mr Hs income was impacted by Covid and 
so Mr and Mrs H requested a payment deferral for June to August 2020. That was done by 
phone on 7 May.
Unfortunately, there was a delay in the original payment deferral being set up so the direct 
debit still collected the June payment. Mrs H called Clydesdale on the day the payment had 
been taken (which was 1 June), and the payment was refunded a couple of days later.
Mrs H called Clydesdale on 8 August as shed received a letter stating the payment holiday 
was coming to an end. She said the letter wasnt clear as it didnt show how much interest 
had accrued over the three-month period, and she wanted to know what options were 
available. She wasnt happy the information couldnt be given to her over the phone about 
exactly how much extra interest would be incurred so asked a complaint be raised and gave 
a list of questions that she wanted answered. She said she used to work in the banking 
industry for many years, and her company would have made this sort of information very 
clear voluntarily.
There were various calls over the next few weeks which I wont list here, although I can 
confirm that Ive listened to them all.
In its response to the complaint Clydesdale said it was unable to provide the information 
Mr and Mrs H wanted as there are too many variables that exist which would cause a 
forward calculation to be wrong. It apologised for the service Mr and Mrs H had received and 
paid £150 compensation. 
Our investigator felt Clydesdales offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr and Mrs H, but although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
There are two issues here:
Mr and Mrs H told our investigator that if theyd known how much the payment 
deferral would cost over the life of the mortgage they wouldnt have taken it out.
The customer service provided by Clydesdale when Mr and Mrs H were trying to find 
out information about the extra interest.
Having listened to the calls of 8 May and 1 June Mrs H didnt ask about the long term costs 
of the payment holidays, so Clydesdale couldnt have misled her into taking it out. Mrs H was 
going to apply online for the payment holiday, and said it was needed as Mr Hs pay had 
reduced due to Covid, shed only phoned to get the mortgage account number for the online 
application. When she was told the application could be done over the phone she was 
pleased it was that easy and went ahead with the application. At the time the regulator 
wanted payment deferrals put in place as quickly as possible, and with minimal formality, as 
the important factor was that customers could access the help they needed.
The first time Mrs H asked about the extra interest over the life of the mortgage was on 
8 August, after all three payment deferrals had completed. On 13 August Mrs H completed 
her own calculation for the extra interest (which shed worked out to be around £2,840) and 
Clydesdale has said that was essentially correct, albeit that was based on the interest rate at 
that time (which was a fixed rate until the end of December 2021).
So just five days after she first queried how much extra interest would be charged Mrs H had 
the answer, albeit shed worked it out herself. At that time, if Mr and Mrs H didnt want to 
incur that extra interest they had the option to pay the three deferred payments (which was 
around £7,380) as a lump sum, and then they would only have incurred around £30 extra 
interest for the three month period. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business doesnt have all the information 
immediately to hand, these were unprecedented times. In this case Mr and Mrs H knew how 
much extra interest theyd pay (as much as anyone could predict that as it relies on future 
unknown events and variables) just five days after Mrs H first asked the question, albeit she 
came up with the answer herself. 
If that information had been given on 8 August, Mr and Mrs H would have known five days 
earlier than they did of the approximate likely cost over the life of the mortgage. It seems 
unlikely that there was an option available to Mr and Mrs H on 8 August if theyd been given 
that information that was no longer available to them on 13 August, and so Im satisfied that 
delay hasnt caused them any financial detriment.
That said, having listened to the calls I can hear how frustrated Mrs H was with things. It is 
clear she felt Clydesdale should have had the information she wanted to hand, and be able 
to answer her questions there and then. As I said, these were unprecedented times and it is 
understandable that Clydesdale was trying to offer support to as many customers as it could. 
Getting payment deferrals in place for those customers in desperate need was its priority at 
the time.
I think there was some confusion when talking about the extra interest, as in August the 
extra interest incurred would be fairly low as at that time the payments had only just been 
deferred. For instance, the calculation of the extra interest that had been incurred to date 
that was carried out in August 2020 came out at around £30, whereas by the end of 
September 2020 it had increased to around £45. That figure will increase each month until 
Mr and Mrs H pay off the three payments they deferred (that is the roughly £7,380) plus 
accrued interest on that amount to date. 
Clydesdale cant provide a figure for the extra interest that would be incurred over the life of 
the mortgage as that would depend on many variables, such as the interest rate on the mortgage. Clydesdale only knew what the interest rate would be until the end of December 
2021 as that was a fixed rate, after then no-one has any idea what the interest rate might be 
for the remaining term (which runs until 2048).
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Clydesdale what information should 
be in its letters on a general basis. We look at each complaint individually and decide, if we 
think the information wasnt clear, what a customer might have done differently had they 
known all the information. Here Mrs H worked out the approximate cost over the life of their 
mortgage ten days after the letter was sent to them that they say should have contained that 
information. At that time, if Mr and Mrs H were in a position to take any action they could 
have done so, and so I dont think that the fact the letter didnt contain all the information 
they wanted caused them any financial loss.
Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no 
amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made 
in other similar cases. Its clear from listening to the calls that Mrs H was frustrated with 
Clydesdale, but I must also keep in mind that these were unprecedented times. Having 
considered everything Im satisfied that the £150 compensation already paid by Clydesdale 
is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Clydesdale made a 
fair offer of compensation to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman