DRN-3935102
The complaint
Mr H complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) incorrectly declared his car a category B 
total loss after it was damaged in an accident, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident when driving his car in April 2021. He made a claim to 
Covea. The claim wasnt covered by Mr Hs insurance policy, but prior to this decision his car 
was determined to be a category B total loss. Mr H disagrees with this decision and thinks it 
should be changed to a category S total loss. He says this type of vehicle is easy to repair, 
and it should be possible to repair and use it again on the road. 
Covea says its in-house engineers have reviewed its decision that the damaged car should 
be a category B total loss. It maintained that its decision was correct. Covea says although 
the claim wasnt paid out it owes a duty of care to the public to place a category B marker on 
this vehicle. This indicates the vehicle cant be repaired and returned to the road, which 
would put the driver and other road users at risk. 
Covea says in his report its engineer advised the vehicle shouldnt be returned to Mr H. It 
explains the salvage does remain Mr Hs property but says its illegal to save the frame of a 
category B vehicle or to return it to the road. Covea told Mr H he could obtain his own 
engineers report - if this showed its categorisation was wrong it would consider altering the 
record. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He wasnt satisfied that Covea had done enough to show Mr Hs car 
was a category B total loss. This is because the inspection was only based on photos of the 
damage. He thought Covea should instruct an independent engineer to inspect the vehicle. 
Covea disagreed with this outcome. It says the vehicle was declared a total loss almost two 
years ago, and there is no guarantee Mr H hasnt carried out repairs. It says the condition of 
the vehicle may now differ to that at the time of its engineers total loss decision. Covea says 
the photos of the damaged vehicle show it was extremely damaged. It says its engineers 
still believe it should be disposed of and the category B marker should remain. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain. 
Mr H isnt disputing Coveas decision not to indemnify him for the damage to his vehicle 
following the accident he was involved in. So, I wont comment on this in my decision. My 
focus here is whether Covea treated Mr H fairly when categorising his vehicle as a category 
B total loss. 
A category B total loss means the vehicle isnt suitable for repair, although some usable 
parts can be recycled. Whereas a category S total loss (which Mr H thinks is the correct 
category) means the vehicle has structural damage, but it can legally be repaired and 
returned to the road. 
To understand the extent of the damage Ive read the engineers report Covea provided. 
This is dated in April 2021 shortly after the accident occurred. It says:
[Mr Hs vehicle] has sustained theft damage to the rear. The cost of reinstating the vehicle 
back to its pre-accident condition is estimated to be in excess of its pre-accident value; as 
such the vehicle is considered to be uneconomical to repair.
The engineer valued Mr Hs vehicle at £14,542, which he says was in good condition apart 
from the accident damage. I can see this valuation was obtained using two of the industry 
trades guides. I think this was fair and is the approach our service would expect to see being 
used to value the vehicle. 
The report also says:
Salvage Category
Category B: The vehicle is unsuitable for repair, although some parts may be removed and 
recycled. The vehicle bodyshell should then be crushed in its entirety. NOTE: The vehicle 
should be removed from circulation and disposed of in accordance with ELV [End of Life 
Vehicle] regulations: as such any customer request to retain the salvage should be 
declined. 
Ive thought about whether this report reasonably demonstrates that the vehicle should be a 
category B total loss as opposed to a category S as Mr H believes. 
Covea doesnt dispute that its engineer based his decision on photos of the damaged 
vehicle. Ive examined the photos it provided. There are four in total. The rear of the vehicle 
shows considerable damage, particularly the drivers side. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments that this type of vehicle can readily be rebuilt. In his 
submissions to our service, he asks that a specialist should inspect the damage to ensure 
the correct decision is made. 
I dont dispute the engineers comments that extensive damage can be seen on Mr Hs 
vehicle. But there is little detail provided in his report and this didnt involve a physical 
inspection. Clearly significant damage has resulted from the accident. But Im not satisfied 
that Covea has demonstrated a sufficiently robust inspection of the vehicle took place for it 
to be able to reliably conclude this was a category B total loss. 
I note Covea told Mr H he could arrange for an inspection himself. If this differed to its 
engineers view it would consider changing the total loss categorisation. However, Id expect 
Covea to carry out a fair assessment of the damage and be able to demonstrate that its 
decision was correct. I dont think it did this here. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Covea has treated Mr H fairly. To put this right it 
should arrange for an independent engineer to assess the total loss category of his vehicle. 
Details of a suitable engineer have been provided to Covea and also communicated to Mr H.     My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance Plc should:
instruct an independent engineer to inspect Mr Hs vehicle and determine the total 
loss category.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman