DRN-1715176
The complaint
Mr A complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly applied a speeding event to his telematics 
motor insurance policy.
Mr As been represented for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the representatives 
actions as being those of Mr A.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr A took out an Aviva motor insurance policy. The policy required him to 
have a telematics box installed in his car. It monitored aspects of how it was driven. The data 
was used to give Mr A a driving score. 
In July 2019 the box recorded Mr As car as exceeding a speed limit by more than 15mph. 
Mr A was sent a warning. It said there had been an extreme speeding event. It warned two 
more would result in the cancellation of his policy. 
Mr A complained to Aviva that it was his father, who wasnt a named driver on the policy, 
driving the car. So he felt the speeding event shouldnt be considered against his record. He 
asked for it to be removed. Aviva didnt agree to that. It said the speeding event had been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions Mr A had agreed to.  
Our investigator considered the policy information to be misleading  she said it only referred 
to the policy holder and named drivers driving behaviour being taken into account. So she 
felt it was unreasonable for Mr As fathers speeding event to be considered against him. 
She recommended it be removed. And she suggested Aviva should pay Mr A £100 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience the issue had caused. Aviva 
didnt agree to that, so the complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously explained to Aviva and Mr A that I didnt intend to require any compensation to 
be paid or amend his telematics driving record. Mr A responded to say he disagreed. Having 
considered his comments my position hasnt changed. Ive explained the reasons for my 
decision below.   
Mr A complains its unfair that Aviva considered a speeding event, whilst his father was 
driving the insured car, as part of his telematics score. Aviva says the terms of the policy 
allow it to monitor and consider the driving performance of all drivers of the car  not just the 
policyholder and named drivers. 
Ive looked at what the policy documentation says about the matter. One part of it refers to 
only the policyholder and named drivers performance being considered as part of the box 
data. Another part also refers to any other person who may drive this vehicle. Mr A says the 
policy information doesnt state this. But it can be found in the Privacy Notice document. In 
any event I accept the policy information could be clearer on this issue. 
When considering complaints this service doesnt just decide if a business has done 
something wrong. We also consider if a businesss mistake caused its customer to lose out. 
But in this case, I havent decided if Aviva unfairly included Mr As fathers speeding event as 
part of his telematics score. Thats because even if I agreed it was unfair, I cant see how it 
will have caused Mr A to lose out. 
With some telematics policies the premium can increase or reduce mid-term depending on 
driving score. But I havent seen anything that makes me think the speeding event lead to an 
increase, or prevented a reduction, in the cost of Mr As cover with Aviva. 
Neither did the speeding event contribute to the policy being cancelled. It seems further 
warnings were issued to Mr A at some point. But it wasnt cancelled as a result. Instead it 
seems to have run to the end of its term.
I also cant say that the impact of the speeding event on his driving score caused Mr A to 
pay more for his future cover. It seems he was offered a policy, through the broker, for about 
£1,600  against the £2,600 he paid for this policy with Aviva. So I couldnt say Mr A lost out 
financially even if I did think the speeding event had been unfairly applied to his telematics 
score. 
Ive considered everything Mr As said, including his comments about being given 
inconsistent information. But I cant say any distress or inconvenience caused unfairly by 
Aviva would be enough for me to require it to pay any compensation. Mr A says it was 
distressing knowing he only had two warnings, rather than three, before his policy was 
cancelled. But these were warnings applied only if the user of the car exceeded a speeding 
limit by at least 15mph. And it wouldnt be reasonable for me to award compensation for any 
distress resulting from Mr A having one less chance to significantly exceed a legal road 
speed limit.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr A any 
compensation or do anything differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman