DRN-3521633
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under his 
home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr E has a home emergency policy with Aviva that provides an annual service and 
emergency breakdown cover for his boiler.
In mid-February 2021, Mr E called Aviva as his boiler was faulty. An Aviva engineer visited 
two days later and told Mr E that the boiler was beyond economical repair and shut off the 
gas supply to it. Avivas engineer said that the boiler was obsolete and that parts for it 
werent available so he told Mr E that Aviva would be in touch later that day to arrange a 
replacement boiler.
Aviva didnt contact Mr E so he called it back and got a quote from Aviva to replace the 
boiler six days after it had been shut off. The total cost for replacing the boiler was given as 
£3,032, less a discount from Aviva of £899 as his previous boiler was beyond economical 
repair but over seven years old, meaning Mr E needed to pay £2,133 towards the cost of the 
new boiler.
Mr E thought this price was high and he also got a quote from an independent gas engineer 
to remove and replace the boiler with an upgraded model. As Mr E was unhappy with 
Avivas service, he had his old boiler removed and the new upgraded boiler fitted by the 
independent gas engineer at a total cost of £2,800.
Mr E wasnt happy that his family had been left without heating or hot water during winter so 
he made a complaint to Aviva. He also wasnt happy about the price hed been quoted to 
install the replacement boiler and the amount of time it took Aviva to deal with his complaint. 
Aviva agreed with Mr E that its service was below what he would normally expect. It didnt 
provide Mr E with his quote when it said it would, the quote was higher than it should have 
been and it took longer to respond to his complaint than it should have. In its final response 
letter Aviva awarded Mr E £583 compensation which it later clarified was £120 for Mr Es 
inconvenience plus £463 which is the price Aviva would be able to buy the boiler for.
Mr E remained unhappy with Avivas response and brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and said that they thought Aviva had not acted 
fairly. They said that Avivas offer of £120 compensation wasnt enough and should be £300. 
But our investigator said that they thought it was fair of Aviva to offer to pay Mr E £463 which 
was the amount it would have cost Aviva to source the replacement boiler.
Aviva disagreed with the view because it said it couldnt be responsible for the delay in fitting 
Mr Es boiler as it was Mr Es decision to have it fitted by another business. So this complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
There has been a considerable amount of correspondence between Mr E, Aviva and this 
service to clarify various points since the view was issued. I want to assure Mr E that I have 
read all of his and Avivas submissions carefully, and even though I havent mentioned 
everything here I have focused on what I think are the main areas of the complaint. 
I think there are two main elements: the cost of replacement of his boiler following it being 
deemed by Aviva as being beyond economical repair, and compensation for Mr Es 
inconvenience from being without heating or hot water and the delays in Aviva dealing with 
his complaint.
On the first issue, the replacement of the boiler, Mr E is unhappy that while he was offered a 
new boiler under the terms and conditions of the policy, he was quoted a price for extra parts 
and installation he thought was too high. 
On Page Two of Mr Es policy renewal documents, it says that the cover is Parts, labour 
and VAT are included. Ive thought carefully about this and I think it means that Mr E would 
be reasonably entitled to expect that the cost of labour to fit the boiler would be included 
within a claim. 
Later in the policy document it says that the cover given by the policy for a boiler older than 
seven years old is:
Obsolete parts and BER (Beyond Economical Replacement):
Ifthe boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older we will 
source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation 
costs.
Its not clear from the policy what Aviva mean by installation costs but from the information 
I have it seems to me that it means Mr E would have to pay for the costs of labour because 
his boiler was more than seven years old. 
Aviva quoted a discounted price of £2,133 to replace his boiler, which included some extra 
parts needed to fit it (given here at retail price, not Avivas cost price) at £632 and Avivas 
cost price of the boiler which is £463.
As Aviva service Mr Es boiler annually it knows both the age of it and its type. So I dont 
think its fair of Aviva to sell Mr E a policy that sets out to pay for Parts, Labour and VAT to 
replace his boiler, and then have him pay a significant amount towards its replacement. 
For Aviva to rely on this part of its cover I would expect it to have brought that fact explicitly 
to Mr Es attention and I cant see any evidence that it did so.
As Mr E decided to source a replacement boiler himself due to the service issues he had 
faced, and because he decided his contribution towards Avivas price was too high, Aviva 
offered to pay him the equivalent of what it would have cost for Aviva to purchase the new 
boiler, which is £463.
Ive thought carefully about this point. The ability for an insurance company to limit its 
exposure to the cost it would incur using its own supply channels is widely used in the 
industry, but it is usually applied into an insurance contract using a policy condition. I cant 
find a similar phrase in Mr Es policy terms and conditions, so I dont think its fair for Aviva to rely on it. 
Ultimately, Mr E has been paying a premium of about £413 per year at current rates for 
Aviva to insure his boiler against breakdown, and he has paid the equivalent of this amount 
for several years. I dont think its fair of Aviva to sell Mr E a policy that sets out to replace his 
boiler when if it fails, and then be able to limit its payment to £463.
I have mentioned above that Mr E has replaced his old boiler with a new upgraded model for 
a cost of £2,800 via a third-party gas engineer. I havent seen a breakdown of what Mr E 
was charged for, but if I use Avivas costings its possible to estimate that Mr E paid about 
£600 for additional parts and about £1,000 for labour. 
Using those figures and deducting them from Mr Es bill of £2,800 would tell me that the cost 
of his replacement boiler would be around £1,200. I am minded that I ask Aviva to pay this 
amount to Mr E because I think its fair on both parties. I have said above that I dont think 
its fair for Aviva to restrict its payment to £463, but I also think Mr E should bear some of the 
cost of having his new boiler fitted and the new parts used.
The second issue is the service Mr E had from Aviva, which Aviva have already agreed was 
poor and offered Mr E £120 compensation for his inconvenience. I think that Avivas poor 
handling of the early part of the claim meant Mr E felt he had to take matters into his own 
hands. Faced with no heating or hot water in winter, during a covid lockdown and having to 
chase Aviva for its quotation is poor service, and I do not think £100 is sufficient. I do 
appreciate Avivas response that it did initially provide service to Mr E within two days, but I 
agree with our investigator that £300 is a more appropriate figure due to the length of time 
Mr E has had to wait for responses from Aviva.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr E responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. Aviva didnt agree. It said it 
didnt think it was fair for it to pay more than its replacement cost for the boiler.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Avivas response to my provisional decision, it refers to other cases that have been 
subject to decisions by this service in which its costs have been limited to its own 
replacement costs for the boiler rather than another amount.
My role is to examine each case on its own merits and judge whether Avivas actions are fair 
and reasonable. As a service, we dont set a precedent when making awards. Each case is 
assessed on its individual facts, and the impact on the complainant, and thats what I have 
considered when making my decision.
It seems to me that Aviva sold Mr E a policy stating on page two that the cover is for Parts, 
Labour and VAT for a boiler that Aviva know the make, model and age of.
Then, if the boiler breaks down and is deemed obsolete, Aviva apply a term limiting its 
payment towards replacement of that boiler. This term is found in Mr Es renewal documents 
on page 15.
This term is applied at Avivas sole discretion and I can see from Mr Es evidence that the 
third party engineer he used did say the old boiler was repairable. It seems to me that Aviva is able to apply this exclusion when it serves to protect itself, and I dont think the exclusion 
has any benefit to Mr E.
I think this is a very significant policy exclusion and as such it should have been expressly 
pointed out to Mr E when he renewed his policy. Aviva hasnt responded to this point, so I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on the exclusion.
I have previously said that I dont think its fair for Aviva to limit its payment to £463 (its 
replacement cost) because a policy condition saying this does not appear in Avivas policy 
wording. 
Aviva didnt respond to this point so, as I have said in my provisional decision, I also dont 
think its fair for Aviva to apply it in Mr Es claim. 
Having made those decisions, I must then consider how much Aviva should pay towards Mr 
Es replacement boiler and for his inconvenience. As Mr E has accepted my provisional 
decision, and because Aviva hasnt provided further evidence, I think the figures in my 
provisional decision represent a fair and reasonable settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr E:
£1,200 for the replacement cost of an equivalent boiler.
£300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
As Mr E has already paid for the cost of a new boiler, I also require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to pay interest at 8% simple on the figure of £1,200 from the date Mr E paid the invoice for 
the new boiler to the date he tells us he accepts my decision (assuming he does accept it).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman