DRN-2952881
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mrs H and relates to a mortgage held with 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. The estate is represented here by the executor 
Mr A, who was the late Mrs Hs husband. The complaint was summarised as:
The estate was forced to sell the mortgaged property within 14 days when the 
account was cleared of its arrears, and this made Mr A sell at undervalue;
He threw away furniture and precious items in the property after the sale; and
Kensington delayed giving the redemption figure in 2019 when the estate was in the 
process of concluding on the sale of the property.
 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in June 2021, the findings of which stated:
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs H was the consumer 
originally but when she died in 2009 the right to complain passed to her estate. But I must 
explain that, although Mr A is representing the estate, hes not Kensingtons customer 
here. Mr As role is to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a 
person might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mr A in his personal capacity or look at 
how this matter has affected him personally. In saying this I understand the points Mr A 
has made and its clear that this matter has been difficult and frustrating for him to deal 
with, but thats just not something Ive got the power to consider. This also means I cant 
make an award for any distress and/or inconvenience caused to Mr A.
Speed of sale
Mr A has said that the house was sold for around half its value, and he threw away all his 
furniture and precious belongings because Kensington only gave a redemption figure on 
the day of completion. He said that left him with no time to move as he wasnt sure the 
sale would complete due to the lack of redemption statement. He also said he had to stay 
in hotels for three months because he couldnt find anywhere suitable to live.
Ive considered these points carefully but Im not persuaded by them, Ill explain why. 
The property had been on the market since April 2018 with an asking price of around 
£245,000. In November 2018 the price was reduced to £235,000 and it was listed with a 
different agent.
Kensingtons solicitor wrote to the estate of Mrs H on 15 March 2019 to say that Mr A was 
under an obligation to administer Mrs Hs estate, and upon her death the mortgage had 
become fully payable. It said the estate needed to make contact with it within 14 days, or 
the debt needed to be fully repaid by then, or it would issue court proceedings.
A follow up letter was sent to the estate on 17 April which referred to its earlier letter and 
subsequent telephone conversations. It said it understood from the conversations that 
the property was being sold, and said Kensington had agreed to allow until 17 July 2019 
for that to be done.
The sale of the property completed at the end of May 2019 for £235,000 and the 
mortgage was repaid.
It seems clear from this that the estate wasnt forced to sell the property at an undervalue, 
as it was sold for the same price it had been on the market at since November 2018 
(which was many months before Kensingtons solicitor wrote to the estate to give a 
deadline for the mortgage to be repaid).
Its unclear why Mr A didnt remove his belongings from the property when he sold it. He 
said it was because he wasnt sure if completion would happen due to the fact 
Kensington hadnt sent the redemption statement. But normally arrangements for a 
property to be cleared would be made in the weeks running up to completion, and 
removal companies are used to completions being delayed until later in the day or being 
at risk right up until the day in question. Mr A hasnt explained why he didnt already have 
arrangements in place to clear the property that he could have simply delayed if 
completion didnt take place.
Solicitors are also used to only receiving redemption statements at the last moment. It 
isnt uncommon for a solicitor to need to phone a lender on the day of completion to 
obtain a verbal redemption figure so a mortgage can be repaid and a property sale go 
through. I would have expected the estates solicitor to have explained that to Mr A and 
reassured him that the sale could complete. In any event the redemption statement was 
sent to the estates solicitor on Friday 24 May, ready for completion on Tuesday 28 May 
so it was issued in time for completion to take place.
The property had been on the market for over a year, and Kensington had given the 
estate until 17 July 2019 to repay the mortgage. The sale went through in May 2019 at 
the price it had been on the market at. For all the reasons given Im satisfied the estate 
wasnt forced to sell the property at an undervalue. Im also satisfied that Kensington 
didnt cause Mr A to not clear his belongings from the property or that it was the reason 
why he stayed in hotels for three months.
Delay in redemption figure
It isnt in dispute that Kensington didnt send a redemption statement to the estates 
solicitor when it was asked for one. For that our investigator said Kensington should pay 
the estate the equivalent of 15 days interest as she felt it delayed completion.
Having considered this point carefully I dont agree. This transaction was the sale of a 
property and would have been subject to when the various parties involved wanted to 
complete. Ive seen no evidence to show that the chain would have all completed 15 days 
earlier but for Kensington not providing the redemption statement. Theres a note of a call 
from Mr A on 20 May which says he advised a redemption statement is needed for a 
completion date of 28 May. As completion went through that day, and theres nothing to show an earlier completion date was ever intended, I cant award the estate a refund of 
any mortgage interest.
That said, I can see the estate was put to some inconvenience by the delay, and Ill 
consider that as part of my assessment of fair compensation.
Fair compensation
Our investigator said it wasnt fair that Kensington instructed its solicitors to write to the 
estate about repaying the mortgage and then charged the mortgage account those costs 
when it hadnt tried pursuing things itself first. I agree. Having reviewed the contact notes 
and other correspondence it seems Kensington hadnt been proactive in telling the estate 
that the mortgage needed to be repaid; either by the house being sold or by a remortgage 
with another lender into Mr As name. It had been mentioned briefly, but not for many 
years, so I can see why a letter from Kensingtons solicitor giving just 14 days for contact 
to be made came somewhat out of the blue.
As Ive already explained, I cant consider the impact on Mr A personally so I cant 
consider any distress that may have caused him. But I can consider the costs to the 
estate. When the mortgage was repaid there was an extra £1,290 charged for legal work 
by Kensingtons solicitor.
Im satisfied the instruction of its solicitor was somewhat hasty by Kensington as it should 
have told the estate the mortgage needed to be repaid  and given a deadline for that  
itself first, before involving a solicitor with the inherent costs that brings. Kensington has 
agreed to refund the £1,290 charge (plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date the 
mortgage was repaid until the date of settlement) and Im satisfied that is a fair resolution 
to this issue. 
In terms of the inconvenience caused to the estate both in the unexpected contact from 
Kensingtons solicitor and for the delay in producing the redemption statement Im 
currently minded to award £300 (that is on top of the amounts offered by Kensington in its 
response to the complaint).
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Kensington had nothing further to add. Mr A, despite being given an extension of 
time to respond, made no further submissions.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my opinion hasnt changed, and Im satisfied with the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision.
 
I order Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to pay the estate of Mrs H:
£1,290 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date the mortgage was repaid 
until the date of settlement.
£300 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and order Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to pay 
redress as Ive laid out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman