DRN-2772626
The complaint
Mrs C, a sole trader complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) arent carrying 
out some of the payment services that she believes they agreed to.
What happened
Mrs C has an agreement with First Data enabling her to take card payments for her 
business. One of the requirements of her contract is that an annual compliance form (PCI) 
is completed. Mrs C says that the business consultant (BC) told her that he would fill out 
the PCI form for her on an annual basis. Mrs C says that she was paying a monthly fee of 
£4.99 for this service, but the BC only filled in the form for the first two years. As the form 
wasnt completed the third year, First Data applied a non-compliance charge of £35 in regard 
to this. When Mrs C asked First Data to fill out the form, they told her there would be a 
monthly fee of £10. Mrs C also complained about the difficulties she had with the BC whilst 
trying to update her bank details, though she says this matter was resolved through another 
consultant.  
First Data reviewed the details of the complaint and didnt uphold it. They say that they only 
agreed to fill out the PCI form in the first year of the agreement. First Data also said that the 
business consultant did contact Mrs C in regard to the change of bank details. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think that the BC had promised to fill out the PCI form on a yearly basis. And therefore, 
the non-compliance charges that First Data had applied were fair and reasonable. 
Mrs C is unhappy with the investigators view and says that she had two such agreements 
from the same BC  this one, and another for a limited company shes connected with. But 
she has only had problems with this one. Mrs C also wants to know what can be done if she 
isnt able to get in touch with First Data. The investigator replied to the comments, but their 
view remained unchanged. So, this has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the issue regarding updating the bank details is no longer in dispute, Im focusing on the 
outstanding issue of the PCI form completion arrangements. 
Mrs C completed her application in November 2017. Ive seen an email from the BC to Mrs 
C on 25 November 2019 saying that he had agreed to do the PCI compliance form for the 
first year of the agreement. Within the email the BC directed Mrs C to the PCI help line, 
should she require further support. I acknowledge that Mrs C has responded to this email 
and said this is in contradiction to the verbal discussion they had. Ive also taken on board 
about what Mrs C has said in regard to the £4.99 that she was paying for this service. But 
the application form Mrs C signed doesnt say that this fee is to complete the PCI form on 
her behalf. Rather, it says it is to monitor and report her compliance status.
As the BC no longer works for First Data, Im unable to get any further clarity around the 
discussion. On balance, there isnt enough evidence here that would persuade me that the 
BC included completing the PCI form every year as part of the agreement between the 
parties, though I take on board thats how Mrs C believed things would work. First Data has 
confirmed that this service comes with an additional cost. I cant see any evidence that Mrs 
C has been charged for this, so I dont see that shes receiving lesser service than the 
written agreement between the parties says she would.  
With this in mind, it seems fair and reasonable for First Data to apply the non-compliance 
charge of £35 as the PCI form hasnt been completed. Mrs C has agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the merchant agreement, Clause 12.3 says You agree to comply with the PCI 
DSS and any changes which may occur to those standardsIn the event that we 
reasonably deem you to be non-compliant with PCI DSS, we will issue you with a non- 
compliance notice and you shall promptly remedy areas of non-compliance. We may charge 
a fee for non-compliance. It would also be fair and reasonable for First Data to apply the 
standard charges for helping Mrs C completing the form, should she want them to. 
As a gesture of goodwill, First Data have confirmed to us that they have agreed to refund the 
non-compliance charge of £35 for March. Mrs C may wish to contact First Data directly in 
order to get confirmation of the refund. 
Ive taken on board that Mrs C has said that the other agreement with her limited company 
didnt have this issue. Ive reviewed the details of the agreement and whilst the merchant 
services are the same, Im not convinced this would enable me to say one way or another 
what the arrangement truly was. Im aware that the investigator arranged a call-back for Mrs 
C when she couldnt get through to First Data on the PCI helpline. I hope this has been 
resolved. 
I acknowledge that Mrs C will be disappointed with the outcome. But I dont think First Data 
have done anything wrong here, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman