DRN-3536613
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd are holding her liable for a transaction she says she 
didnt make.
What happened
On 15 July 2021, Miss K says she received a call from someone claiming to be from Monzo. 
She says the phone number matched Monzos number, and the caller knew some of her 
personal details such as her name and date of birth. 
Miss K explained that the caller told her that someone was trying to access her account and 
was persuading her to open her banking app to verify something. She said she wasnt happy 
to do so as she was aware Monzo wouldnt call her. She also said that the caller was trying 
to keep her on the phone and since she wasnt comfortable, she ended the call.
Shortly after, a payment of £234.97 left Miss Ks account and she contacted Monzo to report 
it as unauthorised. It was a contactless payment made via Apple Pay using a secondary 
device to that of Miss Ks trusted device.
Miss K confirmed that she still had her card in her possession and no one else had access to 
her card, phone or Personal Identification Number (PIN). She told Monzo her phone is 
protected with Face ID. She also hadnt recently clicked on any text messages or emails 
asking her to enter any of her information nor did she download any apps on her phone at 
the callers instruction. She said she didnt give the caller any information, didnt open her 
banking app or authorise anything. She explained that if she had approved anything on her 
banking app, it was done so accidently.  
Monzo said they were unable to refund Miss K as the payment was made using an Apple 
Pay token on a secondary device which only she couldve authorised. Unhappy with this, 
Miss K referred her complaint to our service. 
Monzo told our service they believe Miss K may have been a victim of a scam, but she 
hadnt provided all the necessary information to help them investigate. They say Miss K was 
active on her banking app while the transaction was approved, and she knows how the 
banking app works. They believe it wouldve been clear to Miss K that she was approving a 
card for Apple Pay so its reasonable to assume she knew what she was doing. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Miss K had authorised the payment. She asked Monzo 
to refund her and add 8% simple interest to this amount. Monzo disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations, Monzo can hold Miss K liable for the disputed transaction if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. 
The disputed payment of £234.97 was authenticated using Apple Pay. Monzo have provided 
technical evidence which shows that the payment tools issued to Miss K approved the Apple 
Pay token to be added to the secondary device  which was then used to make the disputed 
payment shortly after. 
But this alone isnt enough for Monzo to hold Miss K liable for the disputed transaction. I also 
need to be satisfied that based on the evidence, its likely that Miss K herself made, or 
otherwise authorised the transactions.
Miss K has maintained that she didnt go into her banking app at the scammers request to 
verify anything. This explanation conflicts with the technical evidence as the audit report 
shows that Miss K had accessed her banking app several times during the scam call and 
that she approved the Apple Pay token by entering her cards Personal Identification 
Number (PIN). Miss K has clarified when questioned further that if she approved anything on 
the banking app, it was done so accidently. 
This is a finely balanced case, and I cant say with completely certainly as to what exactly 
happened. So, I need to make a decision based on what I think is most likely.
Monzo believe Miss K has been a victim of a scam. I agree this is one possibility. But on 
balance, I find Miss Ks explanation that she mightve accidently approved the Apple Pay 
token plausible and most likely, given that shes also said that she recognised the call was a 
scam quite early on. It follows, I dont think Miss K authorised the disputed transaction.
In order for Miss K to have consented to the disputed transaction, I need to be satisfied that 
she:
Disclosed her long card number, expiry date and three-digit security code; and 
Approved the Apple Pay token to be added using her banking app.
I appreciate theres some inconsistencies in Miss Ks testimony, but Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest that she disclosed all the card details required for the scammer to add 
the Apple Pay token to their device.
I dont think its improbable and nor can I rule out the possibility that Miss Ks card details 
may have been compromised somehow without her involvement. For example, through data 
linked to transactions she authorised leading up to the scam call.
While the evidence shows that Miss K approved the Apple Pay token on her banking app, 
she has explained that if she did so, it was likely by accident. Monzo feel that its very 
unlikely for Miss K to have completed the process accidently as she wouldve had to tap to 
continue and then input her PIN.
Ive looked at the screenshots Monzo have provided which shows the process Miss K 
wouldve followed to approve the Apple Pay token. I dont think its clear from the 
screenshots that Miss K wouldve been aware that she was approving for her card to be set 
up on a secondary Apple device. 
Im persuaded its plausible for Miss K to have approved the Apple Pay token by accident 
and that she didnt knowingly approve the Apple Pay token, particularly given that we know this happened towards the end of the spoof call when Miss K was distracted due to the 
scammer trying to keep her on the phone, and she was frequently checking her banking app 
during this time.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that Miss K, or 
someone with her permission, completed both the steps required to have consented to the 
Apple Pay token being added to a secondary device  meaning the disputed transaction 
wasnt authorised.
I also dont think Miss K failed with intent or that she was grossly negligent. Since Miss K 
approved the Apple Pay token, she allowed the disputed transaction to take place. However, 
I dont think Miss K intentionally approved the Apple Pay token and she did so without 
realising that the safety of her account would be compromised. So, Miss K didnt fail with 
intent. 
The standard for gross negligence is whether Miss K was significantly careless  did she act 
so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done or seriously disregarded an obvious 
risk. 
Monzo say they cant assess whether Miss K was grossly negligent without her revealing the 
full details surrounding the spoof call. I agree itd be simpler if Miss K was able to provide 
further information, but this isnt a clear-cut case. 
I dont believe Miss K is deliberately holding back details. Monzo have accepted the call she 
received was likely from a scammer, but theyve not appropriately considered the range of 
emotions that the recipient of one of these calls goes through. Even though Miss K twigged 
that something was amiss during the call, it wasnt like that right from the off, otherwise she 
wouldve immediately hung up. The caller must have resonated with her to some extent so I 
can understand why she wasnt thinking clearly in the moment within a stressful 
environment. 
So, I dont think that the actions Miss K took under the circumstances of this complaint  
approving the Apple Pay token accidently and unintentionally, when the notification on the 
banking app wasnt clear that she was agreeing for her card details to be added to a 
secondary device not belonging to her, while she likely was unaware that her card details 
were already compromised  amounts to gross negligence. 
Miss K took the actions Id expect as soon as she became aware of the disputed transaction. 
She immediately froze her card and contacted Monzo to dispute the transaction which 
prevented any further unauthorised transactions  which is consistent with her testimony that 
she didnt authorise the transaction.
Monzo feel Miss K has attempted to hide information from them about a text message they 
sent to her on 15 July 2021. This, along with the lack of explanation from Miss K about the 
spoof call, has raised their suspicions. They say they havent been able to complete a full 
investigation due to Miss Ks dishonesty which they believe is an exception for 
reimbursement under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code.
I cant say for certain about what happened to the text message Monzo sent Miss K. But I 
cant see a plausible explanation for why Miss K would withhold this information as it doesnt 
undermine her case as shes presented it. I think its most likely that Miss K didnt receive the 
text message as she reacted to Monzos notification about the disputed transaction debiting 
her account immediately.In any event, I should clarify that the CRM code only applies to authorised push payments 
such as faster payments. The CRM code doesnt cover pull payments such as contactless 
payment transactions, so the exceptions of the code cant fairly be applied in this case. 
All things considered, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold Miss K liable for 
the disputed transaction and to put things right, they should:
Refund Miss K £234.97;
Add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to deduct tax from this interest. Monzo must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman