DRN-3414884
The complaint
Mr W complains that Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded him after he was tricked into 
making payments for what turned out to be an investment scam. He brings his complaint 
with the assistance of professional representation, but for readability, in what follows I will 
refer solely to Mr W.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr W opened an account with Starling (the first hed held with the bank). 
He first used this account in January 2020 when he credited it with £200, and then made a 
corresponding £200 card payment to what appears to have been a licenced cryptocurrency 
exchange provider (returning his Starling account to a zero balance in the process).
Mr W believed this payment was being made in connection with an investment company he 
was setting up an account with  which I will refer to as B. 
Mr W had entered into an agreement with B, believing that it would provide him with an 
automated trading service. He says B had been recommended to him by an individual he 
knew through work (although afterwards this individual told Mr W theyd never personally 
had dealings with B).
Mr W explains that on Bs web-based trading system it appeared he was achieving 
substantial profits within a short space of time. Over the following weeks, B persuaded him 
to invest more.
Mr W sent an international transfer for the sum of £2,000 to a payee that appears to be an 
estate agency or property company based in Switzerland. Then about a week he sent later 
the sum of £6,755 to that same destination.
After another week he sent a payment of £4,000 to a different international payee (again one 
whose name suggests a link to property or estate agency). This payment was unsuccessful 
and was returned to his account the following week, after which he sent the same sum to a 
cryptocurrency wallet hed set up in his own name before transferring it onwards from there.
When Mr W first tried to make a withdrawal from his trading account with B, he was told hed 
need to pay fees first. He says he tried to do so from his account with Starling, but this didnt 
succeed. So, he tried again, this time from his current account held with another bank  
which Ill refer to as C. 
Mr W says hed not previously attempted to send money to B through his account with C. 
Rather, hed been transferring funds from the account with C to his account with Starling and 
then sending a matching payment onwards from his Starling account (which wasnt used for 
other transactions).
It appears C identified that this latest payment hed requested was out of character given 
Mr Ws previous pattern of usage on his account. It contacted him to ask about the payment. 
As a result of the discussion, Mr W carried out a search for B online, which revealed B might 
be a scam. He contacted Starling to report his concerns.
Starling investigated this as a scam. Unfortunately, it was unable to recover any money from 
the receiving accounts. Starling said it was not liable for the losses Mr W had incurred. It had 
followed Mr Ws instructions in making the payments hed requested and didnt believe it 
could have identified these payments as being connected to fraud at the time.
Mr W didnt accept that. He referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review. He 
said Starling should have blocked him from forwarding all the payments and could have 
prevented his losses. He said that Starling had blocked the final payment hed attempted 
(which was why hed used his main bank account with C to make the transfer instead) but 
should have acted sooner.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Starling was at fault in allowing 
Mr Ws payments to be made. The payee names gave no indication these were connected 
to B. There was also no prior usage on the account with Starling for the bank to compare 
these transactions against, so it couldnt have identified them as unusual or out of character 
for Mr W. She thought Starling had acted as required when it was made aware of the scam. 
Lastly, she didnt think Starling could have successfully raised a chargeback for the initial 
£200 card payment because it had been sent to a legitimate merchant (the cryptocurrency 
exchange).
Mr W didnt accept this. Because Mr W didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint 
has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr W. I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he doesnt accept that 
Starling shouldnt be responsible for refunding him.
I think its important to begin by clearly acknowledging that Mr W has been the victim of a 
crime here. Hes explained about the impact this has had on him. Mr W believed he was 
investing his money and making significant profits. Hes been left out of pocket by a 
significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of these losses was B  the organisation that deceived Mr W.  
For me to say Starling is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank 
could and should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its 
obligations in some other way. Further, Id need to find that Mr W had taken a reasonable 
level of care prior to making the payments that led to the losses.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. 
As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with 
the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud or scam - for 
example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Starling should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer. 
With the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that Starling did enough given the specific circumstances here.
Firstly, I find there was nothing obviously concerning about the payees to which Mr W was 
sending these payments. The largest payment was sent to a payee that on the face of it, 
would appear to be a property related business operating in Switzerland  not an investment 
trading scam, nor having any identifiable connection to B. This was also not the first payment 
hed sent to that payee - having made a smaller payment around one week earlier. At initial 
inspection I dont think there was anything here that would reasonably have prompted 
Starling to have had concerns about these payment destinations.
I cannot overlook that Mr Ws Starling account was one hed set up just a few months earlier 
and had not made any prior use of. I find this relevant when considering what might have 
been significantly out of character or unusual for his account usage. He had no previous 
account history with Starling against which the bank could have compared the payments in 
question. Given this and the other circumstances, I dont find Starling at fault for not 
identifying these payments as significantly unusual or out of character for Mr W.
Immediately preceding each outbound payment, Mr W sent a corresponding credit (or 
credits) to his Starling account to fund the outward payment  a pattern consistent in all of 
the transactions. This leads me to find on balance that the payments were consistent in 
appearance with each other  and in the absence of prior transaction history, these 
payments formed the only payment history Starling had to draw a comparison against. 
Mr W argues that the pattern of receiving a credit prior to making a payment ought to have 
prompted concern from Starling that this might be indicative of fraud (presumably including 
money laundering or account takeover). But I dont agree that this should have been a clear 
cause for concern in this instance. In the context of the limited number of transactions on Mr 
Ws account, and it typically operating with a zero balance, this doesnt strike me as 
inherently suspicious in appearance  rather it suggests he was transferring money from 
other accounts he held elsewhere before making payments onward (as indeed he was). It 
seems to me that might likely correspond with any number of legitimate purposes and that 
this would be the more likely explanation.
Similarly, while Mr W says the payment reference hed used (trading) should have 
prompted concern from Starling, I dont agree. That has numerous legitimate meanings, and 
I consider it most likely in the context here it would have been read as such. Even were I to 
think Starling ought to have scrutinised these transactions in more detail before processing them (which I do not consider it had cause to) then the reference Mr W had used would not, 
in itself, have been sufficient to prompt further concern.
Ultimately, the test I need to apply here is whether the evidence is such that I consider 
Starling ought to have had significant concerns that these transactions could be indicative of 
possible financial harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would have 
overcome its primary obligation to carry out Mr Ws payment instructions. 
On balance, and taking everything into consideration, I do not find that there was enough 
here for me to find Starling at fault on that basis. I do not find there was enough to say 
Starling should have intervened rather than carry out Mr Ws instructions.
Ive thought about Mr Ws point that Starling blocked the final payment he attempted (on the 
day the scam finally began to come to light). Starling says it doesnt have a record of 
blocking a payment from Mr W on that date. So the evidence here is contradictory. 
On balance, I consider it most likely Mr W did attempt that final payment from his Starling 
account, and it failed for some reason. I say this because the transaction log appears to 
show hed transferred across the equivalent sum in smaller payments and then returned this 
money to his account with C (presumably to attempt to send from there instead). This seems 
to me to be most consistent with Mr Ws version of events. Mr W goes on to say he was 
unaware exactly why he couldnt make the payment at the time  simply that it had not been 
possible. But I cannot safely conclude that Starling did block this payment (and if so on 
suspicion of fraud or a scam) rather than it having failed to complete for some other reason.
And more importantly, this occurred some days after those payments from which Mr W 
sustained a loss, and on the same day the scam began to come to light. All considered, it 
does not lead me to reach different findings than those I have explained above concerning 
Starlings actions in relation to those earlier payments.
In relation to the initial £200 card payment, I do not find it likely that any chargeback attempt 
under the relevant scheme rules would have had any reasonable prospect of success given 
it appears this payment was successfully made to what appears to have been a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange platform.
Finally, I am satisfied that when Starling was made aware of the scam, it took the 
appropriate actions, including its attempts to recover Mr Ws lost funds. 
Overall, I dont find Starling was at fault here. I cant fairly require Starling to refund these 
payments.
In closing, I would reiterate that I have natural sympathy for Mr Ws situation, and I am 
extremely sorry to hear about the losses he suffered and the impact the scam on him.  
But it is simply the case that I dont find Starling was at fault in making these payments in 
line with the instructions he gave the bank at the time, and I dont find the bank liable to 
refund him for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about Starling Bank Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman