DRN-1807731
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly increased his overdraft facility that 
became unaffordable.
What happened
Mr K says HSBC increased his overdraft facility to £5,000 in 2013 when he was in financial 
difficulties. He says the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable, and he had gambling 
problems. Mr K also says that HSBC didn't sell on his debt, and the overdraft facility 
remained until cancelled some years later.
HSBC says Mr K applied for an increase to his overdraft facility in July 2013 to increase it 
from £3,500 to £5,000. It says the application was credit checked and was not told about any 
gambling issues. HSBC says the facility was removed in 2017 and it agreed a settlement 
figure with Mr K that avoided a default. It says that was its policy at the time but it has now 
changed and Mr K benefited from it.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought we could only look at the overdraft increase in 2013 due to the time limits we 
operate under. And thought the application had been looked at appropriately. The 
investigator thought it was up to HSBC to decide if it wished to sell a debt and didn't think Mr 
K had told it about any gambling or financial difficulty issues.
Mr K doesn't accept that view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
The investigator has explained that we can only look at the last overdraft increase in 2013 
due to the time limit rules we operate under. I can't see that Mr K disagrees with what we 
have said about those rules. I can see from HSBC records that Mr K made the application to 
increase his overdraft facility from £3,500 to £5,000. I have looked at Mr K's account 
statements at the time and can see that he had a regular salary being paid in to his account 
and that there was no information on his account statements that would have indicated he 
was in financial difficulties. I appreciate that Mr K made use of his overdraft facility but I don't 
think that in itself would indicate such difficulties. And I can see that it was some time after 
the overdraft increase that Mr K experienced financial difficulties, no doubt caused by his 
gambling problem.
I can't see that Mr K has provided us with a copy of his credit file from the time of the 
overdraft increase or has provided any evidence of his debts or financial difficulties at that 
time. So I don't think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by approving the overdraft facility 
increase in 2013. And I don't think HSBC could reasonably have known about any gambling 
problems Mr K had unless he told it about them. It follows that I don't think the lending of a 
£1,500 overdraft facility was unaffordable and irresponsible.
I appreciate Mr K says that HSBC ought to have sold his debt to a third party company at the 
same time it sold other debts. I'm satisfied such matters are for HSBC to decide upon when 
exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. I can see that 
the result of HSBC not selling the debt was that a default wasn't registered on Mr K's credit 
file, and he agreed a lower settlement figure than he owed. So I think Mr K may have 
benefited from that decision.
Overall I'm satisfied HSBC hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman