DRN-4132503
The complaint
In summary, Mr L complains that Lift Financial Limited, took unagreed fees from his pension 
between December 2009 and July 2021. In addition, he doesnt think it has provided him 
with information he has asked for and hasnt communicated with him in a fair and not 
misleading manner. 
The plan was set up when Lift was known by a different name.  But for consistency I will 
refer to Lift throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr L joined his employers group personal pension (GPP) in 2010. Although the provider of 
the GPP name has now changed, I will refer to it as S, and to the employer as B. Lift wrote 
to Mr L in January 2010 to confirm what it had discussed with him in respect of him joining 
the GPP.
Mr L said that when he joined the GPP, he told Lift that he didnt want to receive financial 
advice. And he says he didnt sign any service agreement with it. 
In June 2013, S wrote to Mr L and said it had been told that he had left the service of his 
employer. It provided him with a statement and said the pension had been made paid up. 
His pension could be left with S and that charges would continue to apply as detailed in the 
members guide.
In 2018, Lift contacted Mr L. This appears to have been to ask him if he wanted to transfer 
his pension into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says he subsequently asked 
Lift to clarify the fees being taken from his GPP. He said that after receiving an 
unsatisfactory response to his information request, he stopped payment of the so-called 
adviser fees, which he had learned were optional, from July 2021.
Mr L then complained to Lift about the charges that had been taken from his pension. In its 
response to his complaint, Lift explained how his GPP had been set up. In summary it said: 
The GPP had been set up on a Direct Offer basis. 
No advice had been provided to Mr L by Lift which was the financial adviser for B and 
the GPP. It didnt have any of the original paperwork. 
Payments made to Lift were in respect of advice provided to B in setting up and 
administering the GPP, not for services provided to individual employees. 
In respect of Mr Ls request for a refund of fees paid to Lift, it said:
Lift was contracted by Mr Ls former employer to manage the GPP on its behalf, 
which included liaising with the employer payroll regarding contributions and general 
day-to-day administration of the GPP.
For providing this service to the employer, Lift received an initial commission of 1% of 
all contributions and transfers paid into the GPP and 0.25% pa fund-based 
commission. These commissions were added to the product charges and agreed 
with the employer as its preferred method for paying for Lifts service.
Lift didnt need to be appointed as his financial adviser for it to receive a commission 
from the GPP provided by B. This was because the payments were in respect of the 
advice provided to the employer to set up and administer the GPP, not for services 
provided to individual employees. 
The decision on whether to join the employers GPP was down to the individual 
employee to decide through what was known as a Direct Offer process. Lift didnt 
provide individual financial advice to employees as part of this joining process.
The Direct Offer pack the employee received consisted of a covering letter, a generic 
illustration, a Key Features Document, a Members Guide, a fund factsheet for the 
default investment fund, a Lifestyle Investment Guide, and an application form. The 
charges payable to Lift were disclosed in the illustration.
The charging structure agreed with the employer was part of the policy terms and 
whilst it could be switched off, S would have to be instructed directly to do this. 
The legacy charging structure applied to the pension is because it was in force prior 
to 31st December 2012, which was when the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) 
came into force. 
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service to consider. He 
provided copies of documents he received from Lift at the time he joined the GPP. This 
included a new joiner information pack that provided information about the scheme including 
details of charges and contributions. In respect of charges, it said the charges for the 
scheme were:
Initial charge of 1% of contributions paid to Lift for the scheme administration.
Policy fee of 0.15% pa paid to S for S administration and account services.
Fund based fee of 0.25% pa paid to Lift for advice services.
Fund charge of 0%-3.7% pa paid to the fund provider for fund management charges.
Mr L also provided the members guide he had been provided with from S. This included 
information about the GPP including charges and fees. And he provided copies of his 
correspondence with Lift in respect of his requests for information. 
When Lift provided its file to this service in February 2022, it explained a mistake had been 
made in its final response and that employees had been provided with individual advice 
when they joined the GPP. It provided information about the GPP including a members 
guide, key features document, a new joiner information pack and its retail client agreement. 
It also provided an e-mail from S which set out that the preR Day basis of charging 
continued to apply to all deferred members of the scheme unless instructions were received 
from members to reduce or cancel existing fund-based servicing fees. 
One of our investigators wrote to Mr L explaining why he wasnt upholding his complaint. In 
summary, he said:
He didnt agree with Mr Ls submission that a 0.25% pa advisers fund-based fee 
would only have been payable if Mr L received investment advice. 
That fee was a contractual arrangement between Lift and S for services provided to 
B, such as setting up and administering the GPP. 
The charging structure was common for GPPs and was known as a consultancy 
charge, the definition of which was set out in COBS 6.1C. 
In its letter of 17 September 2021, Lift had confirmed the charging structure agreed 
with the employer was part of the policy terms. It could be switched off, but Mr L 
would need to contact the GPP provider to do this. If the fee was stopped it could not be reinstated and if the fee was altered, he may not be eligible to stay in the GPP. 
The point-of-sale documentation evidenced that the fund-based fee of 0.25% pa was 
to pay for the set up and running costs of the GPP which the employer had agreed to 
as the preferred method of payment for running the GPP on its behalf. 
Mr L had said that he had received an unsatisfactory response to his request to 
clarify the charges, but complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity.
Information was shared with Mr L by Lift once it had been received from S.
When Mr L left his employer in 2013, he was written to by S and provided with his 
options. This stated that charges would continue to apply as detailed in the member 
guide. And the point-of-sale documents clarified all applicable charges.
Mr L didnt agree with what the investigator said. In summary:
He asked that his case be reviewed by an ombudsman.
He would need time to familiarise himself with the new facts that had been referred to 
and the references to the FCA handbooks. 
He still hadnt received information regarding fees from Lift. He asked that this 
information be sent to him.
The investigator responded to Mr L and gave him additional time to respond. Mr L 
subsequently provided a nine-page response to the investigators assessment. In summary:
He didnt agree that any adviser fund-based fees were payable by him, as he had 
declined the offer of advice, fees werent disclosed in a fair and not misleading 
manner and no advice was provided. 
Administration services for his pension were charged at 1% of the initial and 
subsequent contributions, so had nothing to do with the 0.25% fee.
There was no indication in the pension documentation that Lifts administration fees 
had been passed onto members as part of the adviser fund-based fee. 
If the advisers fund-based fee was to be structured as a consultancy charge, it had to 
be done in accordance with the pension documentation and disclosed as such.
The new joiner information pack he received indicated that the fund-based adviser 
fees were for advice services and no advice was provided to him. The key features 
illustration document disclosed adviser fund-based fees of 0.25% pa. The document 
also said it was for guidance only and benefits could only be paid in accordance with 
the members guide/T&Cs permitted by the rules. All the new joiner pack information 
considered as a whole, supported the assertion that the adviser fund-based fee was 
an advisory fee provided for advisory services. 
No documentation/instruction had been sent as to how the advice fees could be 
turned off. Having declined its advice, he believed Lift should have informed him of 
what specific steps he should take to avoid being charged. 
He hadnt received any information about the total fees deducted. 
The members guide stated that the fund-based advisers fee could be stopped or 
reduced at any time, and it wasnt a mandatory fee to join the GPP. If it was a term 
and condition that the fee must be paid on an ongoing basis in order to join the 
pension, that should have been clearly highlighted to him, but it wasnt.
He hadnt left his employer in 2013 but had relocated abroad. 
In preparation for the case being reviewed for a decision, the investigator wrote to Mr L and 
responded to the points he had made. In summary, the investigator said:
Lift had said it had made a mistake in saying the pension had been provided by way 
of a direct offer. Mr L had been provided with individual advice when joining the GPP 
and had been provided with a suitability letter. Whilst Mr L had declined to take up the offer of ongoing financial advice, he would 
have received initial financial advice on whether to join the GPP. 
There was no explicit cost for initial financial advice, but the overall costs were 
disclosed on enrolment. 
Although the fund-based advisor fee could be stopped this could have forfeited 
membership of the GPP and the employer contribution. The plan information said if 
the fee was altered, he may not have been eligible to remain in the GPP. 
In response Mr L asked for more documentation, which the investigator sent to him. He 
subsequently provided a response to what the investigator had said. In summary, he said:
He didnt agree that he had not been disadvantaged, as he had been charged 
ongoing fund-based fees for advice which hadnt been provided.
He had stopped the adviser fund-based fee payments and hadnt been asked to 
leave the GPP. 
It was a term of his employment package that his employer would make contributions 
into his pension.
The case was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2023 
explaining why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I asked for any further submissions 
to be provided by 16 May 2023. Lift replied and said it had nothing further to add. Mr L 
responded and explained why he didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary:
He believed I had been provided with inaccurate information. He didnt have sufficient 
knowledge or information to determine whether the discussion with Lift constituted 
advice. He thought at best Lift provided information and wasnt a tax adviser.
Lift had been appointed by B to provide advice for a variety of services including 
contributions. At the time of joining, he wasnt aware of the terms the agreement 
between the parties and the advice had been commissioned by B for its employees 
and didnt form part of the fund-based advice fee which formed the basis of his 
complaint. If it was, he wasnt made aware of it in the meeting with Lift. He was only 
told by Lift that he had to contact S to cancel the advisers fee. 
He thought generic illustrations that may have been provided were unwarranted and 
unwanted. He constructed and managed his pension portfolio. Lift hadnt provided 
any of the advice I had referred to in my decision. The third-party administrators had 
understood the fees were for financial services that he had declined.
The advisers fund-based fee was for financial advice, like fund and manager 
selection. He didnt receive that advice. He thought if Lift was entitled to recoup 
commission/fees it could have done that by charging an advisers servicing fee. He 
didnt think the terms of his pension permitted Lift to recoup commission payments 
per se. He didnt think these fees had been disclosed prior to 2017 and also said Lift 
had only chased S because he chased it.
He thought the findings I had made in respect of commission payments were 
contradicted by his pension documentation in that the fund-based fees were for 
financial advice services (not commission). The differences between consultancy 
charges and commission were never explained.
His complaint was amongst other things, about the clarity of the fee disclosure and 
whether Lift was contractually entitled to charge of the provision of relevant services 
under the pension documentation. He didnt think it could automatically deduct such 
commission from his pension without his contractual agreement. 
He thought it was unfair to classify a fee that wasnt for financial advice services as a financial advice service fee. He thought that if Lift believed it was entitled to charge 
an ongoing commission/fee for the pension set up work, it should have done so 
within the scope of the pension documentation. 
He asked that if I was unable to consider his actual pension documentation without 
generic templates and other documents Lift may have provided, I should explain why. 
And he asked for confirmation about whether members receiving advice were paying 
two advice fees. If they were only paying the 0.25% a year fund-based fee, what 
services was this in respect of?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully as well about what Mr L has said in response to my provisional 
decision. But having done so, I remain of the opinion that his complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ive set out my reasoning again below.
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mr L has raised. I 
dont intend to offend him by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
And this reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I 
think I need to consider, in deciding on whether Lift did anything wrong in applying the 
adviser charge to his personal pension, together with the other concerns he has raised. 
Did Lift provide Mr L with advice?
When Mr L first raised his concerns with Lift, it told him that the GPP with B had been set up 
on a Direct Offer basis, with no advice provided to Mr L. It also said payments made to Lift 
were in respect of advice provided to B in setting up and administering the GPP, not for 
services provided to individual employees. Although Lift has subsequently accepted that it 
provided advice to new joiners and issued a suitability letter, Ive considered whether Mr L 
was provided with any advice by L, as he contends that he declined advice and didnt 
receive any. Mr L also believes that Lift only provided him with information.
Im not persuaded that what Lift originally told Mr L was correct. I say this because helpfully, 
Mr L has been able to provide some information and documents that were given to him by 
Lift when he joined the GPP. The e-mail he was sent on 2 December 2009, sets out that Lift 
was able to provide advice about contributions and investment options and any legacy 
pensions he might have. It went on to say that he wouldnt be enrolled in the pension 
scheme until he had met with one of its advisers to agree on the basis, he wanted to be 
enrolled in the GPP.
Also, Lift provided Mr L with a new joiners information pack. This said:
B.. have appointed us to administer the pension GPP and provide advice to members. 
We will provide the following services to you:
1)Advice regarding contributions and annual / lifetime allowance strategies.
2)Individual  risk profiling, asset  allocation  and fund manager  selection  advice.
3)Assessment of any legacy  pension  arrangements  that you might  have,
We can also provide a range of other fee-based financial planning services and will 
discount our fees by 50% for Bs employees.Im satisfied the new joiners information pack shows that Mr L would be provided with advice 
as part of the process for joining the GPP. In addition to the e-mail and new joiners 
information pack, Mr L has provided a copy of the letter Lift wrote to him on 6 January 2010, 
following a meeting he had with one of its advisers on 5 January 2010. The letter set out that 
the discussion specifically covered the advice issues relating to Mr Ls membership of the 
staff GPP. It recorded Mr L had declined to receive advice on his investment selection, but 
that following Lifts advice, Mr L would contribute £1,500 a month into the pension, by way of 
salary sacrifice, in addition to the employers contribution. It also indicated there had been a 
discussion about the transfer of an existing pension that Mr L had from a previous 
employment. And it said the advice in the report was based on the information disclosed by 
Mr L. 
Mr L argues in essence that because he declined investment advice, he wasnt provided with 
any advice at all. And he thinks in relation to the level of pension contributions to make, that 
at best Lift provided him with information and wasnt a tax adviser.  
I dont agree with what Mr L has said. Im satisfied the evidence I have summarised above, 
shows contrary to what Lift originally told Mr L and his contention that he declined advice, 
that Lift did provide him with advice about joining the GPP. And this related to the level of 
contributions he was going to make into the pension. Also, I dont think advice about how 
much an individual might contribute into a pension to be outside the scope of advice that a 
financial adviser would provide. It would in my experience, form part of the advice process 
when discussing the setting up of a pension. And Lift didnt need to be a tax adviser in my 
opinion, to provide advice in respect of the amount of pension contributions Mr L might want 
to make. So, I think taking into account everything Ive seen, both Lift and Mr L were 
incorrect when they said Mr L wasnt provided with advice when he joined the GPP. 
Was Mr L given information about the adviser charge and did Lift do anything wrong in 
taking this charge from his pension? 
Mr L has argued that the fund-based adviser fee wasnt disclosed in a fair, clear and not 
misleading manner. And he didnt agree that any adviser fund-based fees were payable to 
Lift, as he had declined the offer of advice.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has said, but I dont agree with his arguments. I say 
this because despite what Mr L has argued about the adviser charge not having been 
disclosed within the pension documentation; I believe that it was disclosed in several 
documents from the time Mr L joined the GPP, which he has provided copies of. For 
example, the new joiner information pack has a section headed Benefits from the Plan 
which sets out the charges for the GPP. And the fund-based fee of 0.25% pa is disclosed as 
being paid to Lift for advice services. In addition, the 1% charge on contributions was paid to 
Lift for the scheme administration. 
There is also a section that sets out the advice services that Lift would provide to Mr L as a 
member of the GPP, which included advice about contributions, risk profiling, asset 
allocation and assessment of legacy pensions  as stated in the new joiner pack.  As Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied the information Mr L has provided, shows he did receive 
advice regarding pension contributions.
In addition, page 21 of the members guide provided by S in respect of the GPP, explains 
there were different fee options that would be shown on any individual key features, and that 
an advisers fund-based fee could be applied. It also goes on to explain that the advisers 
fund-based fee could be reduced or stopped at any time. Mr L hasnt provided a copy of the Key Features illustration. Lift has provided a sample 
illustration dated from 2006 that it says would have been provided to employees when they 
joined the GPP. And it is evidence that I need to consider together with everything else I 
have been provided with. The weight I attach to that evidence is a matter for me to decide. I 
think its more likely than not that something like the sample illustration Lift has provided a 
copy of, would have been provided to Mr L when he joined the GPP. But, even if it wasnt, I 
remain of the opinion considering the other documentation I have summarised above; that 
Mr L was made aware of the adviser charge in a way that was fair, clear, and not misleading. 
I think the confusion about the purpose of the adviser charge, is because of Lifts explanation 
to Mr L about the terms of the pension, how it was set up and what it told Mr L about the 
purpose of the adviser charge. As Ive summarised above, Lift originally told Mr L in its 
response to his complaint, that the GPP with B had been set up on a Direct Offer basis, 
with no advice provided to him. It also said payments made to Lift were in respect of advice 
provided to B in setting up and administering the GPP, not for services provided to individual 
employees. 
I think what Lift told Mr L is wrong in several respects. Firstly, for the reasons Ive explained 
already, Im satisfied that Lift did provide Mr L with advice in respect of his joining the GPP. 
And in his response to Mr Ls response to his initial view, our investigator explained that due 
to an internal misunderstanding, Lift had incorrectly stated the advice was provided on a 
Direct Offer basis. It had confirmed new joiners were provided with individual advice to join 
the GPP and issued with a suitability letter. And that has been evidenced by the letter Lift 
sent to Mr L on 6 January 2010, which he has provided a copy of. 
In his initial assessment letter to Mr L, our investigator explained that he thought the advice 
charge was in respect of consultancy fees for services provided to B by Lift and not for 
individual advice to individual employees. I dont agree with what the investigator said for 
several reasons. Firstly, the provision of COBS that the investigator referred to in relation to 
consultancy fees wasnt in force at the time Mr L joined his employers GPP. So, it cant be 
relevant to when Mr L joined the GPP in January 2010. 
As Ive already explained, Im satisfied information was provided to Mr L about the charges 
that would apply to his pension including the adviser fee. It was set out in the new joiners 
information pack, and Ive been provided with evidence that indicates it would have been set 
out on the illustration Mr L would more likely than not have received when he joined the 
GPP. And as Ive also explained, I dont agree with what the investigator or Lift have said 
about the purpose of the advice fee. I say this because I dont think the contemporaneous 
evidence I have been provided with, supports what Lift has said.  
Contrary to what Lift has said in relation to the purpose of the advisor fee, Im satisfied from 
the evidence Ive summarised above, that the fund-based advisor fee and initial fee on 
contributions, were commission payments. The new joiner information pack records that the 
initial fee was to pay for the scheme administration on behalf of B, and the adviser fee to pay 
for advice to members of the GPP. 
Lift, as part of its original agreement with B, had provided advice to Bs employees that were 
members of the GPP. And the revised charging arrangement agreed in 2006 was clearly 
intended to continue that service proposition, albeit on more cost advantageous terms. So, 
considering the available evidence, I fail to understand why Lift has argued that the adviser 
fee was only to provide services to B, when the weight of evidence including what Lift, itself 
has provided; indicates that it wasnt. And I note that Lift hasnt provided any further 
submissions in response to my findings, which suggests to me that it doesnt dispute what 
Ive said.Although I am satisfied the adviser fee provided for advice to be given to Mr L, I dont agree 
with his argument that he didnt receive advice or as no ongoing advice was given to him, no 
commission should have been taken from his pension. I say this because as Ive explained 
above, I am satisfied that Mr L did receive advice when he first joined the GPP. I accept that 
the letter of 6 January 2010, does record that Mr L declined advice in respect of where to 
invest his contributions. But as Ive already explained, it does record that he did receive 
advice in respect of contributions he would make into the GPP. And it records that an 
existing pension he had was discussed, with a view to it being transferred. 
When Mr L joined the GPP, Lift was allowed to take commission from his pension in the way 
that it set out it would do. And although the fund-based adviser fee wasnt described as 
commission, Im satisfied that in essence that is what it was, as it was a fee that was paid to 
Lift on an ongoing basis. Although Mr L thinks it shouldnt be allowed to have taken 
commission from his pension as it didnt provide him with advice after it was set up, I dont 
agree with him. I say this because prior to the Retail Distribution Review rules coming into 
force, it wasnt wrong for advisers to take ongoing commission from a pension such as 
Mr Ls. And the COBS rules that applied when the RDR rules were implemented, did provide 
for a firm such as Lift to continue to accept commission payments on transactions executed 
prior to 30 December 2012. This is referenced in COBS 6.1A.4AA (31/12/2012)
The information Ive seen doesnt indicate that Lift contractually undertook to provide 
ongoing annual reviews or that Mr L requested them. And specifically, the copy of the retail 
client agreement that Lift has provided and which it says would have been provided to Mr L, 
says that investments will not be kept under review unless agreed with the customer. But 
that advice could be provided on the customers request. So, I dont think Mr L would have 
been led to believe that he could expect Lift to provide him with ongoing annual reviews. And 
just because Mr L didnt ask for any advice from Lift after the pension was set up, doesnt 
mean that it was wrong of Lift to take the adviser fee until Mr L cancelled it. I can see that he 
did contact Lift for information about his pension after having been contacted by Lift. 
The information provided to Mr L in the members guide explained that the advisers charge 
could be cancelled. And in July 2021, Mr L wrote to the current provider of his pension. He 
explained that his pension statements recorded Lift as being his financial adviser and he 
asked that all payments to Lift be stopped. It subsequently confirmed that the advisers fund-
based fee had been stopped. So, I think this shows he was aware that he had the option of 
cancelling the advisers fee if he wanted to, and how to do that.  Mr L says that it was only 
because Lift recently told him that he needed to contact S to cancel the payments that he did 
so. But Im satisfied that the members guide explained that the adviser charge could be 
cancelled and that he had the information to have questioned this earlier than he did. 
Mr L has also complained about the delays in Lift providing him with the information he 
asked for about the fees taken from his plan. I dont agree that those concerns were a 
complaint about complaint handling. It seems to me that the complaint subsequently came 
about because Mr L thought there had been delays caused by Lift in providing him with the 
information he had asked for.   
Mr L has said that he had to chase Lift for information about his pension. That may have 
been the case. But I can see from the information provided by Lift that it requested the 
information in July 2021 and chased the pension provider in August 2021. It appears that the 
provider sent the requested information to Lift in February 2022. And I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Lift had to ask the GPP provider for up-to-date information in respect of 
the information Mr L had asked for. I dont think it would be fair to hold Lift responsible for 
any delays in S providing it with the information it asked for.I dont think Lift has helped matters with the incorrect information it gave Mr L in its response 
to his complaint. And I can understand why he may have had concerns based on the 
information Lift initially gave him. 
Notwithstanding the above, Im satisfied the payments for the adviser charge Lift received, 
although they were incorrectly described in hindsight as consultancy charges for services 
provided to B, were commission payments for advice provided to employees. And the initial 
1% charge on contributions was for the administration of the GPP on behalf of B. The nature 
of the arrangement seems to be a series of deferred commission in respect of the original 
advice Mr L received rather than a large one-off payment. In conclusion for the reasons I 
have explained, I dont think Lift has done anything wrong by taking commission payments 
from Mr Ls pension.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman