DRN-4165921
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs H complain because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
trip under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs H held single trip travel insurance, provided by AWP. They were due to travel
on a UK break in December 2021. Unfortunately, shortly beforehand, Mr T was advised by
his GP not to travel.
Mr T and Mrs H cancelled their trip and notified AWP on 15 December 2021 that they wished
to make a claim for their unused costs.
On 21 December 2021, AWP sent Mr T and Mrs H a claim form and asked for supporting
documentation. Mr T and Mrs H subsequently sent AWP a completed claim form dated 9
January 2022. The claim form included a medical certificate from Mr Ts GP. The medical
certificate wasnt signed by the GP but set out the GPs name and contained a GP surgery
stamp.
On 1 February 2022, AWP told Mr T and Mrs H that it needed the medical certificate to be
stamped by Mr Ts GP. AWP also asked for bank statements showing payment for the trip.
Mr T said he had difficulty visiting his GPs surgery and asked for AWP to arrange to obtain
what it needed directly. Mr T also said he didnt have copies of his bank statements but
provided a cheque book stub stating that payment was made to the holiday provider.
AWPs records show that, on 7 February 2022, it told Mr T that he would receive payment of
the claim within 7  10 days. On 8 March 2022, AWP told Mr T it had written to his GP
asking for his signature on the medical certificate. AWP said it would complete the claim
assessment once it had received the signed medical certificate. Mr T subsequently sent
further emails to AWP seeking an update and received automatic replies. Unhappy, Mr T
and Mrs H brought their complaint to the attention of our service.
Following our involvement, AWP sent Mr T a final response letter on 16 December 2022
saying it couldnt locate his claim so it had closed his complaint. And, on 28 March 2023,
AWP wrote to Mr T enclosing a claim form and asking for documentation, some of which it
had already received.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought AWP should
settle Mr T and Mrs Hs claim and pay them £200 for its delays.
Mr T and Mrs H accepted our investigators opinion but AWP didnt respond. The complaint
was referred to me as the final stage in our process. I made my provisional decision about 
Mr T and Mrs Hs complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims promptly and fairly, must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder
make a claim and must also provide appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these
rules into account when making my provisional decision and I dont think AWP has handled
Mr T and Mrs Hs claim in the way Id have expected it to.
Insurers are generally entitled to carry out reasonable investigations into and ask for
reasonable evidence in support of a claim. This would usually include evidence such as
bank statements demonstrating proof of payment for costs claimed for. And I dont think
AWP was unreasonable in initially querying the lack of a signature on the completed medical
certificate.
However, this doesnt mean that its fair for AWP to delay paying Mr T and Mrs Hs claim
indefinitely, particularly in circumstances where it hasnt chased Mr Ts GP for the
information it says it requested and where AWP hasnt communicated effectively with Mr T
and Mrs H about the progress of their claim.
Ive carefully considered the evidence which is available in this case  including the terms
and conditions of the policy (particularly the health declaration and health exclusions in
relation to UK trips). Ive taken into account the information on the completed medical
certificate confirming the date of first onset of Mr Ts symptoms, the date of first consultation
for the condition in question and the date Mr T was advised that it was medically necessary
to cancel the trip. I have no reason to doubt the authenticity of the medical certificate and,
although it is unsigned, it is stamped and, so, was capable of being verified by AWP if it had
chosen to telephone the GP surgery and make further enquiries.
Mr T and Mrs H have provided evidence that they have been unable to obtain a refund for
the cost of their trip from their holiday provider. They have also provided evidence from the
holiday provider that the client paid in full for the trip, as well as a stub receipt from a
cheque book. While I wouldnt necessarily consider this to be sufficient evidence that costs
have been paid for more generally, Im satisfied based on the individual circumstances of
this case that Mr T and Mrs H have demonstrated that they have a valid claim.
I think AWP has excessively and unreasonably delayed in assessing and paying Mr T and
Mrs Hs claim and I think AWP has had more than enough time to carry out any further
investigations into the claim which it may have deemed necessary. I think any potential
disadvantage to AWP in now losing the chance to carry out further investigations is of its
own making and Im satisfied that the fair outcome in the circumstances is for Mr T and Mrs
Hs claim to be paid, together with interest.
Ive considered the inconvenience and annoyance experienced by Mr T and Mrs H as a
result of how AWP handled their claim. Ive taken into account the length of the delays and
the lack of meaningful correspondence or updates from AWP in this case. Ive also taken
into account the loss of expectation experienced by Mr T and Mrs H following the incorrect
information given to them by AWP that their claim was due to be paid in February 2022. Ive
also had regard to the content of AWPs final response letter and its subsequent request for
information in March 2023, which can only have added to Mr T and Mrs Hs frustration.
I dont currently think that the payment of £200 compensation proposed by our investigator
adequately compensates Mr T and Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience they
experienced. Overall, I think a total payment of £300 compensation would be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. AWP responded and said it had nothing 
further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or additional submissions, I see no reason 
to change my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
AWP P&C SA needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr T and Mrs Hs claim, subject to any applicable policy excesses and/or limits;
add interest to the claim settlement at 8% simple per annum from one month after 
AWP P&C SA received Mr T and Mrs Hs completed claim form until the date the 
settlement is paid1;
pay Mr T and Mrs H a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. 
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation with 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr T 
and Mrs H accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr T and Mrs Hs complaint against AWP P&C SA and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T and Mrs H how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr T and Mrs 
H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 