DRN-2519901
The complaint
Miss D has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Privilege packaged bank account.
Miss D says that the account was mis-sold as she does not recall agreeing to the account 
and was unaware she was being charged a monthly fee for the account.
What happened
Miss Ds account history is:
Opened as a fee-free account 3 June 2011
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege account 27 September 2011
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they did not think that the account had been 
mis-sold. Miss D disagreed with their assessments and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, I dont think the 
Privilege account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it will help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
missing, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on everything that has been provided.
Ive started off by considering whether Miss D was given a fair choice. 
Miss D says that she does not recall agreeing to the account. I understand that Miss D 
believes her account was upgraded to a fee-paying account without her consent. Miss D has 
also told us she is a vulnerable customer as she suffers from several medical conditions.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was sold, Co-op has little information 
available from when the account was sold. But it has been able to provide a copy of a 
welcome letter it sent to Miss D on 28 September 2011. This letter confirmed that Miss Ds 
account had been changed to a Privilege account and explained that it incurred a monthly 
fee of £9.50. The letter also referred to the account benefits, which included worldwide travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and a £200 interest free overdraft facility. This letter 
looks to have been correctly addressed, so overall, I think it was more likely than not 
received by Miss D.
Co-op has provided evidence to indicate that Miss Ds account was upgraded in branch. And 
it has provided evidence to show that, after the account was upgraded, Miss D went on to 
register two handsets under the mobile phone insurance. The first handset was registered 
on 3 October 2011 and the second one on 28 April 2014. And the telephone number 
recorded for both handsets matches Miss Ds current mobile phone number. So Miss D was 
clearly aware she had mobile phone insurance provided with her account.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss D agreed to upgrade her 
account to the fee-paying Privilege account. And as she already had a fee-free account at 
the time, I think she did so in the knowledge that it was an optional product. Furthermore, 
although Miss D has told us that she suffers from several medical conditions, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Co-op was aware of these in 2011 (the earliest I can see Miss D 
had notified Co-op of these conditions was in November 2019). So I cant say that Co-op 
had acted inappropriately because it had sold Miss D the Privilege account when it did. 
Co-op says that the account was sold on a non-advised basis. And Miss D says she cannot 
recall the sale of the account. So, based on everything that I have seen, I think it was likely 
to have been sold on a non-advised basis. This means Co-op did not have to check if the 
insurance benefits were right for Miss D. But it did have to provide Miss D with important 
information about the account and associated benefits, so she could decide for herself 
whether it met her needs.
Miss D was clearly given some information about the account and the benefits it included. 
For example, the fact she registered two handsets shows she was aware of the mobile 
phone insurance; that she could register handsets; and how to go about doing so. The 
welcome letter also suggests Miss D had been made aware of the monthly fee and that the 
account included travel insurance, alongside a £200 interest free overdraft benefit as well.
I accept that Miss D might not have been given all of the information she shouldve been 
during the sale. But, based on what Ive seen about Miss Ds circumstances at the time, I 
dont think Miss D wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account had she been given 
more information about it. I say this because, Miss D says she had no need for the mobile 
phone insurance - yet went on to register two handsets  which suggests she did have a 
need for that benefit. Miss D has told us that she has medical conditions which she has to 
pay extra for, when taking out travel insurance. Im not sure if Miss D was told about the 
need to declare her medical conditions to the travel insurer. But Miss Ds comments suggest 
that she was not relying on the Privilege account travel insurance anyway. So I dont think 
its likely that she wouldve changed her mind about upgrading, had she been told about this 
requirement of the policy. 
I appreciate that Miss D may not have had a need for all of the benefits that the account 
provided. But as it was sold as a package, she was not able to pick and choose what it came 
with. And as I mentioned above, I think Miss D agreed to it knowing she didnt have to have 
it and that fee-free alternative accounts were available. And although it seems that Miss D 
now cant recall agreeing to the account, that doesnt mean that it was mis-sold either.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Privilege account was mis-sold.
Finally, since contacting our service, Miss D has mentioned that Co-op allowed her to 
consistently exceed her overdraft limit, but says she was not offered any support from Co-
op. However, as this was not mentioned in her original complaint, Miss D will need to raise 
any concerns she has about her overdraft with Co-op in the first instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman