DRN-2121474
The complaint
Mrs J complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) charged her an 
annual fee for a credit card. She says she wasnt made aware of this fee and wouldnt have 
taken the credit card if shed known about it.
What happened
Mrs J took out a Clear Rate Platinum credit card with NatWest in 2015. In July 2019 she 
noticed that shed been charged £24. NatWest explained this was the annual fee for the 
credit card. Theyd debited this from her account each year since 2015.
Mrs J complained that shed never been told about this fee and hadnt received any 
benefits from a fee charging credit card. She said she had no need of the features of this 
particular credit card (a low interest rate and a bonus for balance transfers), and so would 
have taken another credit card without a fee if shed known.
NatWest didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. They reimbursed the 2019 fee as a gesture of 
goodwill but said the annual fee had been correctly charged in line with the terms and 
conditions and would be charged again when due in 2020 if she didnt change to a different 
product.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs J continued to correspond with NatWest and also raised a 
complaint about the way theyd handled her complaint.
What NatWest told us
NatWest explained they no longer have a recording of the telephone call where Mrs J 
completed the credit card application in 2015, but they said its likely the annual fee would 
have been mentioned during the sale. They provided a copy of the promotional letter that 
was sent to customers inviting them to apply. This letter highlighted Just one annual fee of 
£24 (equivalent to £2 monthly) as a feature. However, NatWest couldnt be certain that this 
letter had been sent to Mrs J.
NatWest showed us that the statements sent to Mrs J included information about the fee  
on the first page of each statement sent between July 2015 and August 2017 it read:
Please note that your Clear Rate Platinum card has an annual fee of £24.
They said the annual fee was also included in the terms and conditions of the account and 
listed on each Annual Credit Card Statement.
The credit agreement was signed by Mrs J electronically on 11 June 2015 and the 
declaration said that the General Conditions and Charges Tariff should be read before 
signing.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. On balance, he felt Mrs J had been given 
enough information about the annual fee. He said shed benefitted from the lower interest 
rate in the first few years of having the card as she didnt, at that time, clear the balance 
every month.
With regard to Mrs Js concerns about complaint handling, the investigator explained that we 
dont look at complaint handling in isolation as it isnt a regulated activity. Nonetheless, he 
said he couldnt see any significant failures in what NatWest had done.
Mrs Js response
Mrs J disagreed with the investigator. She said that in the era of mobile banking many 
customers dont look at their statements routinely, and she wouldnt have looked at the 
promotional materials. She reiterated that she didnt believe the fee had been mentioned 
during the sales call, and said it was only in the small print.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I appreciate Mrs J feels strongly that the £24 annual fee should have been highlighted to her 
during the sales call in 2015 and wasnt. Its unfortunate that, due to the passage of time, a 
recording of that call is no longer available. But taking into account the promotional literature 
Ive seen from the time, I think its more likely than not the fee was mentioned at the point of 
sale; its likely to have been in the relevant sales script.
Mrs J has said that if the annual fee had been mentioned she wouldnt have continued with 
her application because she had no need of the cards special features. I can see that she 
might not have any need of these features now, as she often pays her balance off before it 
accrues interest. But when she applied for the card that wasnt the case, and she benefited 
from the lower interest rate. She also received a bonus when she transferred the balance 
from another credit card in 2015.
So, I dont think Mrs Js decision to take the credit card means the fee wasnt mentioned. Im 
not persuaded the annual fee would have discouraged Mrs J from proceeding in 2015. But 
even if Im wrong about this and the annual fee wasnt mentioned in the sales call, I think the 
other information made available to Mrs J gave sufficiently clear information about the 
annual fee. The fee was detailed in the terms and conditions and prominently highlighted on 
her statements for at least the first two years.
I acknowledge what Mrs J has said about not checking her statements, but I think the 
information about the fee was positioned on the statements in such a way that she wouldnt 
have had to examine them closely to see it. Its also her choice not to look at her statements 
or the other information made available to her.
This was a non-advised sale and NatWests obligation was to communicate information to 
Mrs J in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading, so that she could decide whether 
the product was suitable for her. From the evidence Ive seen I think NatWest met that obligation. I dont agree with Mrs J that she was sold a product with an undisclosed annual 
fee.
Overall, I find the annual fee was correctly applied in line with the agreement between 
NatWest and Mrs J. It was a legitimate debit to the account each year.
Mrs J has raised some concerns about how her complaint was handled. But as a service we 
cant normally deal with complaints that relate to the complaint handling itself. We can only 
look at complaints handling when its an extension of regulated activity failings. As Im not 
upholding Mrs Js complaint about the annual credit card fee, Im not making any findings 
about the way NatWest handled her complaint.
Whilst I am sorry that Mrs J is likely to be disappointed by my decision, Im satisfied that 
NatWest have dealt with Mrs J fairly, so Im not asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman