DRN-1550826
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim for 
the theft of his vehicle.
Mr H is represented in this case by Ms N. But, for ease, where Ive referred to Mr H, this 
includes Ms N.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr Hs vehicle  a pick-up truck  was reported stolen. Mr H reported the theft 
to the police shortly after, but didnt log his claim with LV until 18 July 2018, as he said he 
was due to travel abroad just after the theft took place. 
When Mr H did report the theft to LV, he said that the vehicle had been stolen on 6 July 2018 
while walking his dog. And he explained that hed reported this to the police immediately and 
that he held the only key. 
As part of LVs investigation, it carried out HPI checks and discovered that the police had 
logged an interest in the vehicle on 9 July 2018. 
LV requested Mr H send in the V5C registration documents and the keys to the vehicle, 
which he did in October 2018. But LV said the serial number didnt match what the DVLA 
held on file, and said it established that a new V5C certificate had since been issued. 
LV maintained contact with the police, and during its investigation it found out that the 
vehicle had since been located, and records showed it had changed ownership around six 
days after the theft took place, and that the registered owner had changed at the DVLA on 
15 July 2018. It also learned that the vehicle had been insured by a different provider since 
20 October 2018 and informed the police of this.
LV contacted the new vehicle owner in November 2018 for information and they responded 
with proof of purchase and their V5C registration document.
LV continued to work with the police but, in May 2019, it told Mr H that it wasnt able to seize 
the vehicle, and that it would be down to the police to recover it from the new owner.
LV said it wouldn't pay out on a claim as the vehicle wasn't unrecoverable or written off. So it 
declined Mr Hs claim.
LV initially said this was because the fire and theft section of the policy does not cover,
loss or damage from any agreement or proposed transaction for selling or hiring the insured 
vehicle or someone taking the insured vehicle by fraud, trickery or deception or attempting to 
purchase the insured vehicle by fraudulent means.
But LV later explained the decline of Mr Hs claim more appropriately fails under this section,We will cover you for loss or damage to the insured vehicle that is caused by fire, lightning, 
explosion, theft or attempted theft. This includes standard accessories on it. We will also pay 
for loss or damage to the insured vehicles fitted entertainment equipment up to the limit 
stated on the schedule.
LV said the claim was therefore declined as there was no loss to Mr H. This was because 
the policy would only cover the following:
the vehicles market value where its been stolen and is unrecoverable; or,
the repair costs of any damage present as a result of theft, where the vehicle is 
recovered and returned to the policyholder. 
As Mr Hs vehicle had been found, but not yet returned to him, LV said its unaware of any 
loss occurring from damage for it to consider. And that as Mr H remains the legal owner and 
has the right to have his vehicle returned, there is - at present - no loss.
But LV did recognise the journey of the claim hadnt been as straightforward as it couldve 
been, and sent Mr H a cheque for £50 to compensate him for any distress and 
inconvenience this caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
as Mr Hs vehicle had now been found, there was no loss or damage suffered in order to 
make a successful claim under the policy. So he didnt think LVs decision to decline Mr Hs 
claim was unreasonable or unfair in the circumstances. And he suggested Mr H continue to 
work with the police to have his vehicle returned. 
Mr H still felt his claim should be paid. So as no agreements been reached, the case has 
come to me, as an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs insurance policy covered him for, amongst other things, claims arising as a result of 
loss or damage to his vehicle  caused by fire, lightning, explosion, theft or attempted theft. 
Mr H has said his vehicle was stolen. And I can see that he reported the theft to the police 
and provided LV with a crime reference number. 
But for Mr H to potentially make a successful claim under his policy for theft or attempted 
theft, he would need to have suffered a loss as a result of that insured peril.LV has shown that when considering Mr Hs claim, it discovered his vehicle had since been 
located and subsequently sold on to a third party. So while he was no longer in possession 
of that vehicle, at this stage it wasnt lost and its likely he remained the legal owner of it. So 
based on the information LV has, there was no loss under the policy as a result of theft for 
which Mr H could make a successful claim. 
I understand Mr H has had difficulty in getting his vehicle back. But as LVs rightly explained, 
it has no powers to recover his vehicle from a third party. So I think its reasonable for LV to 
have advised Mr H to refer the matter to the authorities. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustration as at present he does not have access to a vehicle that 
would seem to remain legally his. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr H has 
experienced a loss under the policy, so I wont be interfering with LVs decision to decline his 
claim.
I can see that LV has recognised that it could have done more in handling Mr Hs claim more 
efficiently and has offered to pay him £50 in respect of this. If Mr H wishes to accept this 
offer, then he should contact LV directly to discuss this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29July2020.
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman