DRN-4283068
The complaint
Mrs A complains that the Legal and General Assurance Society Limited have mismanaged 
the investments within her pension after seeing large falls in the value of her plan. She says 
that as shes nearing retirement, theyve failed to move her fund into less risky investments 
to protect her from the volatility of the stock market. 
Mrs A would now like Legal and General to recompense her for the investment losses she 
says shes suffered because of the maladministration of her monies.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs A joined her employers group pension scheme that was organised through 
Legal and General. The retirement date on her plan was set to September 2024 when shed 
reach 65 years old. When the plan was set up for Mrs A, she was placed in the default 
Flexible Retirement Lifestyle fund that was selected by her employer.
In January 2023, Mrs A decided to formally complain to Legal and General after receiving 
her annual statement that showed for the first time since taking the plan out, her investment 
had dropped in value. In summary, she explained that she was concerned about the loss in 
value and wanted Legal and General to explain why her fund had fallen by the amount it 
had.
After reviewing Mrs As complaint, Legal and General concluded that they were satisfied 
theyd done nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that Mrs As pension fund was 
subject to life-styling (where the monies are moved into lower risk investments as the 
consumer nears retirement). Having checked her fund, Legal and General confirmed her 
fund was set up correctly. In addition, they explained that market volatility over the last 12 to 
18 months was outside of their control and linked to a number of factors such as the war in 
Ukraine and other economic challenges.
Mrs A was unhappy with Legal and Generals response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. In summary, she repeated the same concerns. Those were that Legal and General 
had failed to manage her monies appropriately, and they failed to move her funds into less 
riskier investments as she neared retirement.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Legal 
and General had treated Mrs A fairly. He explained that hed seen no evidence theyd 
mismanaged her monies or that Legal and General should be held accountable for the 
investment losses shed suffered.
Mrs A however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that looking 
at paperwork shed received when she took the plan out in 2016, it made it clear her monies 
would be switched to lower risk funds as she approached her retirement age. Looking at the 
investments she had in 2016 compared to what she had now, she didnt think that this had 
happened. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mrs A had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy, Mrs A 
then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
involved and Ive done so using my own words. The purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs A and Legal 
and General, in order to reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the 
relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the 
available information I've been given, what's more likely than not to have happened. 
However, I hope neither Mrs A or Legal and General will take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as they have 
outlined, as a discourtesy. 
Whilst I appreciate this likely isnt the outcome Mrs A was hoping for, having carefully 
considered both sets of submissions, Im in agreement with our Investigators view and for 
largely the same reasons. As such, I wont be upholding Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why 
below.
Mrs A is unhappy about the investment performance of her pension. Whilst I can consider 
complaints about investment performance, in most instances, I would need to see evidence 
that Legal and General had done something wrong and I cant just rely on actual or 
perceived poor performance. Thats because, even if the fund has underperformed 
compared to the rest of the market, we dont usually think this proves the fund was 
mismanaged. Many consumers have seen the value of their pension funds fall over the last 
18 months given the economic conditions not just across the UK, but wider financial 
markets too. So to be clear, this isnt just a Legal and General issue, and its something 
many other consumers are having to face at other businesses too.
I think its important to be clear about the level of service Mrs A was paying for. The costs 
associated with her plan covered the management of the underlying monies and a separate 
charge for the wrapper (or plan) her monies were sat in.
Mrs A wanted Legal and General to review her investments and feels it mismanaged her 
retirement fund by failing to do so. But Legal and General is not Mrs As financial advisor. It 
simply acts on the instructions she provides. It isnt for Legal and General to ensure that 
any investment decisions are suitable for Mrs As needs  those were essentially decisions 
she needed to make for herself. And I have seen that Legal and Generals website provides 
comprehensive information for investors about the range of funds that are offered. Had Mrs 
A wanted someone to advise her on the appropriateness of the investments her monies 
were sat in, she wouldve needed to seek out and pay for financial advice.
Allied to this, Mrs A was regularly made aware of the importance of seeking out advice. The 
regulator sets out the timing and content of the regular statements that need to be issued to 
pension investors. I can see that Legal and General did provide statements to Mrs A and it 
highlighted within them warnings that Mrs A should review the ongoing suitability of her 
investments to ensure they remained appropriate for her needs. There is no doubt that the performance of Mrs As pension investments will have caused 
her great disappointment. As Ive already said, during 2022, the value of pension 
investments fell for many consumers  but those falls were mirrored across a whole range 
of investment classes and were largely outside the control of Legal and General. The 
information provided to investors about the funds into which Mrs As pension savings were 
invested clearly set out that their values werent guaranteed and might fall. 
Mrs A has said that more of her monies shouldve been invested in lower risk investments  
typically, that would mean fixed interest securities. However, I dont think having more of 
her monies invested in lower risk investments wouldve shielded Mrs A from all the market 
falls that shes seen. A portion of Mrs As monies were already partly invested in fixed 
interest investments and importantly, fixed interest funds have been impacted by changes 
in the Bank of England interest rate. As interest rates have risen, a fall in the value of those 
funds is then often seen. But importantly at the same time, there will typically be an 
increase in annuity rates, so this means that although Mrs As fund value has fallen, its 
annuity purchasing power may appreciate. This is different to a loss that might be incurred 
in a higher risk fund when annuity rates might be falling (an annuity is a product that can 
provide a consumer a fixed guaranteed income for the rest of their life at retirement). 
As Ive already explained, Mrs As plan was set up with a retirement date of September 
2024 when shed reach 65 years old, and she was invested in Legal and Generals life-
styling approach. That meant as she neared retirement, her funds would be switched to 
lower risk funds but that approach didnt switch the entire fund into low-risk funds. Thats 
because Legal and General recognise most consumers dont typically divest their entire 
pension pot when they stop working and need to continue to benefit from some investment 
growth. Having looked at Legal and Generals life-style factsheet, Im of the opinion their 
explanation of how the approach works, would be understood by most consumers who had 
limited knowledge of pensions and investments. From the correspondence exchanged 
between Mrs A and our Investigator, shes explained she was provided with a different 
version to the one presented to this service by Legal and General. However, despite being 
given the opportunity to share that leaflet, Mrs A didnt submit any further evidence in 
support of that point. So, it seems more likely than not, the life-style leaflet provided by 
Legal and General is the one she wouldve received when she took the pension out in 
2016. And, as Ive already explained, Im satisfied that leaflet is clear so Im not persuaded 
she was misled by Legal and General on this point. As Mrs A started the plan in 2016, she 
was eight years away from her chosen retirement age. That meant her monies were in a 
switching phase and were invested across six funds in different proportions as she neared 
retirement. It isnt until she reaches her selected retirement age that Mrs As monies will be 
concentrated into just three funds. So, I therefore cant agree that Legal and General hadnt 
correctly positioned Mrs As monies and I also dont agree that Legal and Generals 
communications around this are unclear.
Based upon what I have seen, Im not holding Legal and General responsible for general 
falls in the market or the value of her investments. In 2022 in particular, there was 
uncommon volatility in those asset classes that led to the falls in value Mrs A experienced. 
Those could not have been reasonably anticipated, and so wouldnt have been mitigated by 
any investment approach that was taken by Legal and General. Ultimately, it fell to Mrs A to 
monitor her pension investments and seek financial advice as prompted in the statements 
that Legal and General sent to her over the course of their relationship since 2016. Only 
Mrs A can instruct Legal and General to make changes to her portfolio if she felt it had 
become unsuitable for her circumstances. And, whilst I accept her explanation that she 
wouldnt know which investments to move her funds to, as shes not a pensions expert, she 
shouldve sought professional financial advice if she was in any doubt. 
I think that Legal and General has met its obligations in the information it provided to Mrs A and in carrying out the investment strategy set with regard to the particular funds Mrs A has 
invested in. So whilst I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs A, I dont 
agree that Legal and General has treated her unfairly or done anything wrong. Therefore, I 
dont uphold her complaint
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and as such, will not be instructing the Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman