DRN-3048479
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
because it declined his claim, cancelled his policy and sought to recover from him the 
settlement it had paid to the third party insurer of the car hed crashed into.
What happened
Mr S arranged a policy in June 2018, he told Watford hed be using the car for the purpose 
of social, domestic and pleasure. In October 2018 Mr S crashed into a car in front of him. 
He called Watford and was asked about the accident. During the call Mr S said he was 
driving home from work. Later, when Mr S provided a statement to Watford, and during a 
further phone call, he clarified that he was coming back from a shopping trip. He said he 
doesnt speak very good English so hed given incorrect information during the first call. 
Watford, relying on Mr Ss first account of the accident, said hed been driving contrary to his 
insurance policy. So he wasnt covered for the accident. As such it wouldnt assess his 
claim, it was cancelling his policy and it wanted him to pay it the whole outstanding premium. 
Later it told him he needed to reimburse its outlay for the third party claim of nearly £20,000. 
Mr S complained to us and our investigator felt Watford had acted unfairly. She said, 
amongst other things, that, to put things right, it would need to remove the record of the 
cancellation, refund Mr Ss premium and pay £250 compensation to Mr S. Mr S accepted the 
view. Watford didnt. It maintained it had acted fairly because Mr S had breached his policy 
terms. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
I felt Watford had failed Mr S  but my reasoning and what redress I felt was fairly and 
reasonably due differed from that set out by our investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision. 
Mr S said he was happy with my provisional decision. Watford said it disagreed with it. It said 
Mr S had said he was using his vehicle to commute and it doesnt believe he has shown how 
he otherwise travelled to work. It maintained that given Mr Ss use of the car for a purpose 
he was not covered for, it was never acting as an insurer for Mr S. Watford also said that, its 
other objections notwithstanding, my suggested compensation award of £500 seemed high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
The level of cover Mr S had arranged, social, domestic and pleasure, wouldn't insure Mr S 
to drive to and from work. Mr S initially said he was driving home from work at the time of the 
accident, so Watford proceeded as if Mr S had been commuting.
In contrast Mr S said he wasn't commuting at the time of the accident but instead had been 
shopping. If that was the case then it wasn't fair for Watford to cancel Mr Ss policy and to 
refuse to pay his claim.
But, if I accept Watfords interpretation of the evidence that Mr S was driving from work at 
the time of the accident then he was, technically, driving in breach of his policy. And if Mr S 
had always intended to use his car to drive to and from work then he should have said so 
when he applied for the policy. But he didn't do so, which would mean that Mr S made a 
mistake - a misrepresentation - when applying for the policy. And in those circumstances 
Watford should have dealt with Mr Ss claim under the legislation which covers 
misrepresentation. And if it had done that, given that its since told us that it would still have 
offered to cover Mr S for the same premium, then the appropriate law wouldn't allow Watford 
to refuse liability for the policy or the claim. 
But, Mr S said he didn't wish to use the policy for commuting. And in that case, if hed simply 
used his car as a one off to drive to work, I still don't think it would have been fair for 
Watford to cancel the policy. Thats because in order for the insurer to fairly decline a claim 
and cancel the policy, it must show that the policyholders failure prejudiced its position in 
some way. Here Watford has confirmed that if Mr S had told it he used his car for work (and 
I note Mr S says he does not), it would still have offered him cover and the change wouldnt 
have affected his premium. So Watford would have been on risk at the time Mr S had this 
accident. Therefore, Mr Ss breach  not telling Watford that he used the car for work whilst 
using it for work  made no difference to Watford in terms of its acceptance of risk. 
On the flip side Watfords act of declining Mr Ss claim, cancelling his policy, and seeking to 
recover from him nearly £20,000, has massive implications for Mr S. Thats not fair, 
regardless of whether Mr S was driving to work or not at the time of the accident. And 
I appreciate that this all caused Mr S a lot of upset and worry.
I concluded my provisional decision by setting out a list of everything I thought Watford 
should do to put things right. That list included paying Mr S £500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Ive considered Watfords response to my provisional decision and I think its missed my 
point provisionally made. In short, whether or not Mr S was using his car for the purpose of 
commuting, Watfords response of cancelling his cover was unfair and unreasonable. That is 
because whilst Mr S, if he was using his car in this way, should have told Watford, if he had, 
all it wouldve done was just update his policy details. It wouldnt have given it cause to not 
insure him. Whilst Ive considered Watfords reply, my view on the complaint hasnt changed. 
I appreciate that Watford, other objections aside, feels my compensation award is excessive. 
But Im satisfied that Watfords error caused Mr S significant upset, such that £500 is a fair 
and reasonable compensation sum. Im also satisfied that my suggested award is in line with 
other awards made by this service in similar circumstances. Whilst Ive considered Watfords 
objection to the redress Ive recommended, my view on the fair and reasonable redress 
necessary to address this complaint hasnt changed.
Putting things right
Watford will now need to do a number of things to put matters right. I require Watford to:Remove the record of the cancellation from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate Mr Ss policy  but if he has found replacement cover, only until the date that 
began, at which point mark Mr Ss policy as cancelled by him. 
The above subject to Watford telling Mr S what premium he owes for the reinstated 
cover and him paying that to it. Although, if Mr S did still owe any balance of premium, 
and hed prefer it to, Watford may deduct this from its final settlement. 
If Mr S found alternate cover and it was more expensive than the policy he had with 
Watford, refund him the difference, plus interest* from the date the extra costs were paid 
until settlement is made. 
Reconsider Mr Ss claim.
Cease recovery action for the third party outlay and write to Mr S to confirm that he is no 
longer liable for that sum.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair decline 
and cancellation, as well as it seeking recovery of its third party settlement from Mr S.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr S, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman