DRN-3879160
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of service he received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
when he phoned them about his credit card application.
What happened
Mr H called Tesco in May 2022 to make further enquiries about his credit card application.
Mr H was unhappy with the service he received from the Tesco adviser, when he asked her 
to log a complaint. This is because he found the staff member unhelpful, lacking in manners 
and rude.
Tesco couldnt see they had done anything wrong and Mr H complained to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. His opinion was the Tesco adviser was defensive, 
seemed to avoid answering seemingly straightforward questions and resisted raising a 
complaint. Also, he thought there was a rude tone towards the end of the call. And, his view 
was that Tesco should pay Mr H £100 compensation.
This amount of compensation was acceptable to Mr H. However, Tesco disagreed and said, 
the logging of the complaint took a little longer than we'd expect, this had very little impact 
on the customer as ultimately the complaint was raised.
So, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
As this complaint is about Mr Hs dissatisfaction with the standard of service when making a 
complaint, I first considered the type of service customers should expect. This is that 
advisers should listen, make the experience easy, consider how customers want the 
complaint to be resolved and ensure customers are happy with the experience.
I then listened to the May 2022 call focussing on the part where, upon hearing his application 
is declined, Mr H clearly asks the Tesco adviser for information and then to register his 
complaint. 
I found there were times where the adviser didnt listen to Mr H, and talked over Mr H, 
including when he said, I dont think you are listening. Also, Mr H found it necessary to ask 
the adviser to let him finish speaking and told her that she was being impolite and lacking in 
manners and professionalism. In addition, Mr H had to repeatedly ask for his complaint to be 
logged and the adviser, despite Mr H being clear about his complaint, initially seemed to 
misunderstand. Furthermore, the adviser had to be prompted to answer what appeared to be 
straightforward procedural questions. 
I also found that the adviser made the experience difficult rather than easy. Firstly, the 
adviser didnt attempt to give Mr H an explanation for his application being declined. Then, 
the complaint logging call was long and inefficient, with the adviser correcting her own 
logging, asking Mr H to repeat himself and one of the long holds was because Mr Hs 
complaint wasnt matching up to what we class as a complaint. Also, some of the above-
mentioned interruptions were unnecessary and unhelpful and there are parts of the call 
where the advisers tone comes across as sharp, impolite, and possibly rude. In addition, 
there were some straightforward questions which she had to be prompted to answer and 
gave vague answers. And, with regards to logging the complaint, she seemed to be 
resistant. 
The adviser did ask Mr H how he wanted the complaint to be resolved. However, she first 
told Mr H his complaint would be dealt with as feedback and later, understandably upset Mr 
H by saying it would be put down as not being Tescos responsibility or fault, despite it not 
yet having been looked into. Also, I agree with the investigator, the adviser seems to be 
making assumptions, attempting to defend what has happened without being in the 
appropriate team or having looked into it. 
I can see why Mr H thinks the standard of service was unsatisfactory here. Furthermore, 
perhaps because of the advisers inaction, I cant see that Tesco took Mr Hs complaint 
seriously. I say this because I cant see that Mr H received a response to the complaint he 
logged and the file suggests Tesco misunderstood his complaint, thinking it was about their 
decline decision rather than the standard of service.
So, considering all the above, I agree with the investigator that this isnt the type of service 
that Tesco should expect their advisers to be giving to customers, or potential customers. 
And, as Im satisfied Mr H had a poor and distressing experience here, Tesco should pay Mr 
H £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay 
Mr H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman