DRN-3234994
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Miss W has private medical insurance with AXA. In August 2020, she visited her GP 
because she was suffering with pelvic pain. She was referred to a specialist and a diagnosis 
of endometriosis was eventually given and treatment was provided. Miss W claimed on her 
policy but was declined cover because AXA said the condition was pre-existing and so no 
cover was available. Miss W would like AXA to reconsider its position and pay her claim. 
Miss W said her condition is not pre-existing as this is a new diagnosis and that shed not 
suffered with pelvic pain previously. Miss W said her symptoms began in June 2020. Her 
policy began in August 2019 and so she believes AXA should cover her associated 
treatment costs. 
AXA disagreed. It said that Miss W had experienced symptoms for approximate one  two 
years prior to seeking medical treatment. It said because Miss Ws policy is underwritten on 
a moratorium basis, its decision to decline her claim was fair. 
Our investigator agreed with AXA. He said the medical evidence suggested that Miss W had 
experienced symptoms previously. He highlighted AXAs policy terms and the definition of a 
pre-existing medical condition  which he felt Miss Ws claim was caught by. And decided 
that AXA had applied the terms fairly in the circumstances. 
Miss W, unhappy with this, requested an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She 
provided new evidence from her GP which challenges the dates given previously about 
when her symptoms began. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for mainly the same reasons already given by 
our investigator. Im satisfied Miss W began experiencing symptoms of her endometriosis 
one  two years prior to June 2020 when she first consulted her GP. I say that because the 
medical evidence strongly supports this argument. Miss Ws policy was underwritten on a 
moratorium basis, which means that because she suffered symptoms prior to policy 
inception, theres no cover available in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover:
whether or not the condition was diagnosed
Ive highlighted this particular term because it defines how AXA considers pre-existing 
medical conditions. This is important because AXA defines a pre-existing condition as any 
disease, illness or injury that Miss W may have suffered despite the absence of a diagnosis. 
I thought it worth making this clear from the outset, because the medical evidence supplied 
by Miss W clearly states Miss W hadnt previously suffered with endometriosis and therefore, 
because its a new condition, cover should be provided. But thats not the test being applied 
here. The test is whether Miss W experienced symptoms in the five years prior to beginning 
her policy. 
The medical evidence Ive seen suggested that Miss Ws symptoms began one  two years 
prior to seeking medical advice in June 2020. Her policy had been running for less than one 
year at this point and so Im satisfied her symptoms began before the policy was incepted. I 
should be clear that whether there was a diagnosis during that time isnt relevant here 
because of AXAs definition of what it considers to be a pre-existing medical condition. 
Miss W challenged this and provided a letter from her GP to clarify when her symptoms 
began. The GP said their records showed Miss W was first referred to a gynaecologist to 
investigate pelvic pain, which was first brought up as a possibility of her symptoms when 
they met in June 2020. But I didnt find this evidence particularly persuasive because theres 
no dispute about when Miss W was referred to the specialist. The crux of the issue is when 
her symptoms began. This letter simply confirms that Miss W reached out for treatment in 
June and was referred to a specialist. 
Ive considered Miss Ws meeting with the GP in June and Ive found this and the specialists 
notes most persuasive because they both confirm that Miss W had experienced symptoms 
of pelvic pain one  two years prior to seeking treatment. Therefore, Im satisfied with AXAs 
determination that this is a pre-existing medical condition thats caught by the policy 
exclusion and so theres no cover available in the circumstances.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman