DRN-3168289
The complaint
Mr A complains his furniture warranty was mis-sold by Home Retail Group Insurance 
Services Limited (HRG).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr A bought several items of furniture from an online retailer in 2016, including a 
dining table and chairs.
Shortly after, he bought a warranty through the same retailer for the dining table and 
chairs only. The warranty was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as S.
In 2018, Mr A got in touch with S about a problem with his dining table and chairs. S 
declined the claim. Mr A referred that complaint to our service, which has been dealt 
with separately. The outcome of the claim didnt change.
Mr A thought his warranty had been mis-sold. He said he hadnt received any 
information about the limitations of the cover until after hed made his claim. And as 
his claim hadnt been paid, he didnt think hed been provided with a valid warranty.
Our investigator thought HRG was responsible for the sale of the warranty. She 
wasnt persuaded it had acted unfairly. Mr A disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A seems to be unhappy with the retailer and the quality of the furniture. Those arent 
things I can consider under this complaint. He may be able to explore them separately with 
the relevant companies.
Similarly, I cant consider the outcome of the claim with the insurer, S, under this complaint. 
Thats already been dealt with separately. Whilst I know Mr A thinks S treated him unfairly, I 
wont be considering or commenting on that here. My focus will be on the sale of the 
warranty.
Im satisfied HRG is responsible for the sale of this warranty from the retailers website. 
Whilst it initially disagreed with this, it seems to have accepted that now.
Mr A considers the warranty was mis-sold because:
The claim was declined, so the warranty wasnt valid.
He says he didnt receive the policy documents until after hed made the claim, so he 
didnt know what he was covered for.
All insurance policies include a range of terms and conditions that specify the extent of the 
cover provided. No policy will cover everything that might go wrong. As a result, claims are 
sometimes declined. But that doesnt necessarily mean the policy was invalid or mis-sold.
Mr As warranty provided cover for accidental damage and accidental staining only. Thats 
quite common for this kind of cover. It means some problems which may arise with furniture 
wont be covered. For example, damage caused deliberately or by wear and tear are unlikely 
to amount to accidental damage or staining.
S considered Mr As claim. I understand it sent a technician to inspect the damage and they 
thought it hadnt been caused accidentally. 
Whilst I cant consider the outcome of the claim here, I can consider whether the warranty 
was valid. Im satisfied it was. I dont think S would have considered the claim or sent a 
technician to inspect the damage if the warranty was wasnt valid. In principle S was 
prepared to pay a claim  but only if the damage was caused accidentally. I know Mr A 
disagrees with S view on how the damage was caused. But just because a dispute has 
arisen between the policyholder and the insurer, it doesnt mean the warranty is invalid.
Mr A holds HRG responsible for him not receiving his policy documents. Hes provided an e-
mail he was sent when he bought the warranty. It says: well get your items on their way 
within 14 days. You dont need to contact us  well contact you.
He says he didnt receive any further information from HRG. I havent seen any evidence 
that HRG sent the policy documents to Mr A. So, I accept that he didnt receive them.
Im satisfied the e-mail was clear that Mr A didnt need to do anything initially as he could 
expect to receive something within 14 days. And I think HRG should have fulfilled what it 
offered to do by sending the documents within that timeframe.
But once that period of time elapsed, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr A to 
understand that something had gone wrong  and so it was up to him to take the next steps 
if he wanted to know what his warranty covered. Because he considered the retailer to be a 
reputable company, he had a receipt, and it said there was no need for him to do anything, 
he said he saw no reason to worry or take further action.
Mr A wasnt required to do anything further. But I dont think it would be fair to say that HRG 
was solely responsible for Mr A not having his policy documents if he was reassured he had 
cover in place and chose not to pursue this point further with HRG.
When Mr A tried to make a claim through the retailer, he was put in touch with S. So, whilst 
he didnt have his policy documents, this didnt prevent him from making a claim.
Mr A says that after he made his claim in 2018, he received his policy documents. And the 
start date was set to 2018, rather than 2017, when he bought the warranty. Hes concerned 
the policy was written and started after hed made his claim, and this failing by HRG 
contributed to it being declined. The document hes sent us shows it covered a mattress only 
 and the cover was provided by a different insurer to S. Because of this, Im not persuaded 
the document Mr A has provided is relevant to his claim with S for the dining table and 
chairs. And nor does it indicate HRG acted unreasonably or mis-sold the policy.
Ive looked at historic records of the retailers website, from around the time Mr A bought the 
warranty for the dining table and chairs in early 2017. Documents that showed what the 
warranty covered were available to download. They were clear that accidental damage and 
accidental staining was covered  but not damage caused in other ways. So Im satisfied the cover was set in 2017 and remained the same regardless of whether Mr A had the policy 
documents or not. It also means they were freely available for him to access.
Overall, I think HRG could have done more to provide Mr A with his policy documents. But 
Im not satisfied HRG mis-sold the policy or contributed to the claim being declined. Because 
of that, Im not persuaded HRG needs to take any further action for Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman