DRN-3185776
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that more 2 life Ltd failed in its duty of care to them when they were porting 
their mortgage to a new property. They say they didnt get the help they needed, particularly 
in understanding the financial ramifications, and had they known what the end result would 
be then they wouldnt have gone through with the move.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out an equity release mortgage in 2016. They borrowed around £110,000 
at an interest rate of 6.40%. The mortgage offer from August 2016 said that the mortgage 
could be transferred to a new property, subject to various terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs L asked about porting their mortgage in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Then in 2020 an 
application was made. A valuation on the new property was carried out in December 2020, 
and an offer was issued in January 2021. The purchase went through  and so the new 
mortgage completed in March 2021.
Mr and Mrs L complained to more 2 life in July 2021 saying:
I am writing to you with a formal complaint as you have finally given me an address to get 
in contact with. 
I would like to point out that I have asked you on several occasions for your Standard 
Complaints Procedure - you have never furnished me with this. Is this your practice, to not 
reveal your complaints process? 
During our recent move from our home of over thirty years that had an Equity Release 
Mortgage with your firm, we feel you badly let us down as far as your Duty Of Care is 
concerned. 
At no time, along the way, did you step in and give us clear and concise advice on how the 
process works. I acknowledge that you do not give financial advice and the transaction 
followed a correct path, however my issue is that along the way, at no time was I contacted 
to explain how this would work, and foolishly we thought that there would be somewhere in 
the region of £ 120,000 left after the move. Quite clearly this is a very intricate transaction, 
which to lay persons like us is a minefield and one we were unable to navigate without 
some expert guidance and help and that was sorely missing. No one was there to guide, 
help or advise us through a process that we were not qualified to understand, and therefore 
we were unable to make the correct and informed decisions we needed to for our best 
interest: no one from your company who would have been able to help us understand the 
financial ramifications of our move. Had this been the case and we had realised what the 
end result would have been we would never have gone through with the move. 
Where was your Duty of Care ?
Considering the above in the first instance and prior to escalating this complaint to your 
regulatory body, please could you respond - in writing - to the points below; 
I would like you to confirm your sales process for porting a mortgage. Whilst you dont give 
advice are you devoid of all responsibility? 
Could you show me your cost of moving expenses sheet for my move? 
At what time were we talked through and helped to understand how porting an Equity 
Release Mortgage works? I am assuming you have records of your expertise being shared 
with us to help us make the correct decision. 
What safety measures does your company have in place to ensure we were informed, and 
you fully explained, how this would work? If you had we would not have moved. 
I must also express my disappointment at having to ask for your complaints process on 
several occasions, only to be emailed back asking me to phone you to discuss the 
situation. That is not what we asked for.
 
If you are unable to help me with all of the above please furnish me with the governing 
body that regulates your industry so I can escalate my complaint.
More 2 life didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary:
The terms of the original mortgage were set out in the mortgage offer, including those 
on porting.
It had answered Mr and Mrs Ls questions over the years about porting, giving different 
figures as requested for different property values.
Whilst it isnt a requirement to receive financial advice, its letters said if you have any 
concerns, you may wish to speak to your financial adviser.
Mr and Mrs L had their own solicitor appointed to act, and it told them to discuss the 
mortgage offer with the solicitor.
Mr and Mrs L referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at matters and 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered matters very carefully, and have read through the emails that Mr and Mrs L 
provided to us. Ive also listened to the calls between Mrs L and our investigator. Having 
done so I cant uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs L referred the complaint to us she said that less than a week before they were 
due to move house, they realised the financial side of things wasnt as they thought, but it 
was too late to back out without legal action being taken against them. She said that they 
knew they couldnt get financial advice from more 2 life (and didnt ask for it), but as they 
couldnt get the information they wanted they just took the plunge in the end. 
I understand Mr and Mrs L say they were unable to obtain independent financial advice due 
to a combination of the pandemic and where they live (which I wont mention here to prevent 
the risk of triangulation, that is inadvertently putting enough information in this decision that it 
could identify Mr and Mrs L when its published). But Mr and Mrs L first started asking about 
porting in 2017, and then asked again in 2018 and 2019, so if they didnt understand it from the very start  as Mrs L has said  then the pandemic wasnt a barrier to them obtaining 
independent financial advice.
Unfortunately though, that doesnt mean more 2 life needed to become a de facto adviser 
instead. Whilst I acknowledge Mrs L has said that she knew more 2 life didnt give advice, 
and they werent asking for that, that isnt what comes out of this complaint. As our 
investigator explained, more 2 life is their mortgage lender. It couldnt stop Mr and Mrs L 
moving house, nor should it interfere with that. It answered the questions that were put to it 
in a clear way.
Having listened to the calls between Mrs L and our investigator it is clear the problem wasnt 
the information that more 2 life was giving, it was by Mrs Ls own admission that she:
made the big error
made a massive, massive error early on
From my understanding, I think Mrs Ls error was that she didnt include the fact theyd need 
to repay the existing mortgage of around £145,000 when moving house, so they thought 
theyd be receiving around £120,000 when they moved (the £145,000 new mortgage minus 
the £20,000 difference in purchase price). But as Mr and Mrs L moved pretty much like-for-
like (the new house was being bought for about £20,000 more than they were selling for) 
that could never have been the case.
She said that she made that error herself early on, so whenever more 2 life replied with 
different figures based on possible purchase prices (that is, whether or not Mr and Mrs L 
would need to reduce their outstanding debt) she was looking at that from the incorrect 
starting point.
More 2 life correctly answered the questions that Mr and Mrs L asked over a number a 
years. Ive read the questions asked and answers given and I dont think more 2 life could 
(or should) have given any further information. If Mr and Mrs L didnt understand the 
information then they had the option to try to seek independent financial advice over the 
phone or by email (if they were unable to obtain it in person) or to wait until such time as 
they could obtain that advice. I cant hold more 2 life liable for Mr and Mrs Ls calculation 
error, or their decision to proceed without the benefit of financial advice. 
Having considered everything, whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation 
Mr and Mrs L found themselves in, I simply cant uphold their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman