DRN-3499877
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when his overdraft 
was removed.
What happened
Mr B has an account with HSBC. The account had an overdraft facility, but HSBC removed 
it. In July 2021 Mr B complained that it had done so. This service has dealt separately with 
Mr Bs complaint about the decision to remove the facility, and I make no further comment 
on the way in which that was done or the reasons for it. 
This complaint concerns the way in which HSBC handled Mr Bs queries and complaints 
after he found out that his overdraft facility had been removed. 
Mr B called HSBC on 2 July 2021 to complain about the removal of the overdraft facility. He 
says no complaint was logged. HSBC says however that it responded to the complaint by 
letter of 4 July 2021.
Mr B called again on 27 July 2021. He was told a response had been sent on 4 July  which 
Mr B said he hadnt received. The call was otherwise largely unproductive. Mr B was put on 
hold for much of its duration and, when he asked to speak to a manager, none was 
available. No call back was offered or made.
In a further call Mr B was told, incorrectly, that the overdraft had been removed because of 
gambling activity on the account. That was not correct. Mr B again asked to speak to a 
manager. This time he was promised a call back, but it does not appear that any call was 
made.
The following day HSBC acknowledged Mr Bs complaint about the calls and included a 
copy of its letter of 4 July 2021. A few days later it sent a final response acknowledging that 
there had been errors and offering £150 in recognition of that. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service. Our investigator agreed that Mr B had received poor 
service but thought that the banks offer of £150 to put things right was fair in the 
circumstances. He did not recommend that HSBC do anything more to resolve the 
complaint. Mr B did not accept that recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
I believe that HSBC did respond to Mr Bs complaint as it says it did, by its letter of 4 July 
2021. I accept however that Mr B did not receive that latter until a copy was sent later in the 
month. I agree with the investigator (and indeed with HSBC) that telephone calls were not 
always handled as well as they could have been. 
The investigator expressed the view that, had HSBC not made an offer of compensation, he 
would have recommended a payment. And, on balance, he thought that £150 was 
reasonable.  
As HSBC has made an offer to Mr B, I need to consider whether that offer is reasonable in 
the circumstances or whether I should make a higher award. I share the view of the 
investigator that it is reasonable; I do not believe that further compensation is merited in this 
case. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman