DRN-3417894
The complaint
Miss P complains about St Andrews Insurance Plcs handling of a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P has a home insurance policy underwritten by St Andrews which covers her contents 
and buildings, amongst other things.
Theres a long and complicated history behind this complaint and others Miss P has made to 
St Andrews and to our service. That background is well known to both parties, so I dont 
intend to set it out in minute detail here.
Suffice to say, Miss P made a number of claims under her policy including: one in 2012, 
following a flood; one in 2016, after a neighbour drove his car into the back of her house; 
and one in 2020, after a further flood.
Miss P has made a number of complaints to St Andrews about the handling of those 
complaints. These are to an extent interrelated, but this decision is about a complaint she 
made about the way her 2016 claim was handled.
The complaint Miss P made to St Andrews and then brought to us has essentially three 
elements. 
When St Andrews accepted the claim in 2016, they asked miss P to pay an excess of £250, 
as set out in the policy. They returned this only in 2020 after theyd made a partial recovery 
of their costs from the neighbours insurer. Miss P is unhappy that she had to pay the excess 
and that it took so long to return it.
Miss P was also unhappy with the work carried out in her home to repair the damage from 
the accident. In particular, she said St Andrews contractors damaged a valve on her water 
pipes which caused her to be intermittently without hot water and/or water pressure for a 
period of time.
Finally, Miss P complained to St Andrews about the way their solicitors were handling her 
claims.
St Andrews only upheld the second part of Miss Ps complaint  about the damage caused 
by their contractors. They paid Miss P £250 in compensation for her trouble and upset. They 
accepted that it had been wrong to deny responsibility for the damage initially, when there 
was an expert report available which suggested the contractors likely had caused the 
damage. And they accepted this had caused some delays in the necessary repair work.
Miss P wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think St Andrews needed to do any more to put things right for 
Miss P.
Miss P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should make it clear that Miss Ps objections to the way her claims have been 
handled by the solicitors working for St Andrews are also part of her other complaints to 
St Andrews and to our service. 
As Ive said, the complaints are interrelated. But given that Miss Ps main complaint about 
the solicitors is that theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably towards her in dealing with the 
claims as a whole  and primarily in relation to the flood claims - well deal with those issues 
as part of those other complaints.
Turning now to the excess payment, I dont think theres any dispute here that Miss Ps 
policy includes an excess of £250 per incident leading to a claim. 
Miss Ps objection is essentially that St Andrews made her pay the excess when they knew 
the fault was with her neighbour. And that, once they had made her pay the excess, it took 
them too long to recover costs from her neighbours insurer and so pay her excess back.
Miss Ps policy documents make it clear that there is an excess to be paid by the costumer 
when they make a claim. Theres nothing unfair or unusual about that  most policies set out 
excesses to be paid in different circumstances. 
Broadly, if a customer wants a smaller excess, they will pay a higher premium. Theres 
nothing to suggest Miss P wasnt aware of the excess on her policy when she bought it 
and/or renewed it.
So, Im satisfied it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for St Andrews to ask Miss P to pay the 
excess when she made this claim. Once they had recovered some of their costs from the 
third party insurer, they refunded the excess to Miss P. 
St Andrews werent solely responsible for that process. They had to recover the costs from 
a third party insurer. Given that they were recovering money theyd already paid out, I cant 
conceive of any reason why St Andrews would have delayed that process more than was 
absolutely necessary.
St Andrews admitted theyd made a mistake around the damage caused by their contractors 
when they were carrying out repairs at Miss Ps property. 
Miss P was no doubt frustrated and distressed by St Andrews unwillingness initially to take 
into account an expert report that suggested their contractors were at fault.
It appears that Miss P also had to suffer a short period of time where, as she herself puts it, 
she didnt have sustained hot water and where the water pressure in some parts of the 
house wasnt at an optimum level.
However, the £250 compensation is, in my view, fair and reasonable given the extent of the 
trouble and upset Miss P suffered as a result of the errors St Andrews made.  
As Ive mentioned above, Miss Ps other complaints, including her broader concerns about 
the way her claims have been handled, will be addressed separately.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman