DRN-4428598
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt provided him with the service it 
should have when dealing with his credit card application.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card but made a mistake on the application. He is unhappy that this 
couldnt be amended and instead he was told he would need to reapply. Mr H said he 
received an email saying that he would be contacted if further information was needed which 
he feels should have happened with his application and that had this happened the issue 
could have been resolved. Mr H said that when he contacted NatWest the person he spoke 
with was rude and didnt listen and he is concerned that NatWest hasnt been able to locate 
a recording of the call. Mr H doesnt think that NatWest has taken his disability into account 
and feels it acted arrogantly by paying compensation into his account without providing a full 
response to his concerns.
NatWest issued its final response letter in December 2022 and a subsequent letter in 
January 2023. It said that once an application had been submitted it wasnt able to change 
any of the details and as Mr H had made a mistake, he would need to re-submit his 
application. It apologised that Mr H felt his disability wasnt taken into consideration and 
while it said it was unable to locate the call Mr H had mentioned it upheld this part of his 
complaint and awarded him £75 compensation. It noted the comment made about sending a 
letter and the postal strikes but said that its process resulted in a letter being sent and so no 
mistake had been made. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that NatWest had explained that it 
wasnt able to edit applications and that Mr H would need to reapply with the correct 
information. He listened to the call and thought the telephone agent had been polite and 
explained why the application had to be withdrawn. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the call our investigator listened to 
wasnt the one he was complaining about. He said that NatWest had accepted that the 
wording in its communication about the application process wasnt clear, so he didnt 
understand why our investigator didnt agree with this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the experience Mr H has had with NatWest since applying for a credit card has 
been frustrating and upsetting for him. But for me to uphold this complaint, I would need to 
be satisfied that NatWest had made a mistake or treated Mr H unfairly.
The initial complaint was about NatWest not being able to edit Mr Hs application form when 
a mistake had been made. I have listened to the call on which Mr H says he has made an 
application and not had a response. The adviser says that his application is waiting for 
income verification and tells Mr H the monthly income he included. Mr H explains he has 
made a mistake and the adviser says the application will need to be withdrawn. She explains 
that Mr H is able to re-apply but he says he doesnt wish to do this. While I can understand 
why Mr H feels his application should have been amended, NatWest has explained that it 
cannot do this and as it acted in line with its policy I do not find I can say NatWest did 
anything wrong at this time.   
While this investigation has been ongoing, a screenshot of Mr Hs application data has been 
provided. I note Mr Hs comment about this and not recalling putting in the amounts 
recorded. But having looked at the data this shows the income amount incorrectly recorded. 
This was identified on the call with the adviser, and I find the action taken to withdraw the 
application was reasonable. 
Mr H has said that he received a letter in response to his application that said NatWest 
would be in touch if it needed any further information. I note Mr H feels that had he been 
contacted then this issue could have been resolved. But I do not find I can say that NatWest 
was required to contact Mr H in this case, as when he called his application was at income 
verification stage and it was on this call the error with the income was identified. As NatWest 
has said it cant amend application forms the appropriate action was then taken to withdraw 
Mr Hs application. 
Mr H says that when he called NatWest the staff member was rude and didnt listen. I have 
listened to the calls NatWest has provided, including the call when Mr H is told his 
application will be withdrawn and subsequent calls when Mr H wishes to raise his complaint. 
I can hear that Mr H was getting frustrated by the service he had received both in regard to 
his application having to be removed and also the number of people he had spoken to in 
order to raise a complaint, but I find the advisers on the calls were polite and did try to assist 
Mr H. I appreciate that Mr H doesnt think we have listened to the relevant call, and that 
NatWest upheld his complaint about how the call was handled and awarded him £75 
compensation for this. Without further evidence of calls being mishandled I do not require 
NatWest to do anything further in regard to this issue.
Mr H has raised concerns about NatWest not being able to provide certain call recordings 
and how NatWest handles data. We are an informal dispute resolution service, and it isnt 
our role to say whether NatWest has breached data protection laws. The Information 
Commissioners Office regulates compliance to data protection laws in the UK. We can 
consider the impact of any data protection issues on Mr H but in this case, I do not find that I 
have evidence to show the issues Mr H has raised have caused him any financial loss or 
significant distress and inconvenience. So, while I have noted the comments and I 
understand Mr Hs frustrations, I do not require NatWest to pay additional compensation for 
this issue.
Mr H was sent a letter by NatWest informing him of the status of his application. I appreciate 
the comments he has made about using other forms of communication and the delay that 
can be involved with sending letters. However, as it is NatWests policy to send a letter in 
these circumstances, I cannot say it has done anything wrong.
Mr H says that his disability hasnt been taken into consideration by NatWest. I am pleased 
to hear his positive comment about the member of staff that assisted him on a visit to the 
branch and that they went through the policy of registering Mr Hs disability. But I am 
disappointed that Mr H feels other staff members havent taken his condition into account. It 
isnt our role to say if NatWest is in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the 
power to do this. What we can do is take relevant law and regulation into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. In this case, 
NatWest has apologised for Mr H being made to feel this way and has paid him compensation for the service on the call he complained about. In this case I find this a 
reasonable resolution. 
Overall, while I can see the process has been upsetting for Mr H I do not find that I can say 
NatWest has done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. It acknowledged that it might not 
have provided the service it should have in regard to the call Mr H had highlighted and 
compensated him for this. I understand that Mr H didnt think it right the compensation was 
paid without his issues being resolved to his satisfaction, but I think that NatWest was trying 
to act in Mr Hs interest by paying him the compensation when it had accepted it hadnt 
provided the service it should have. 
Based on the above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman