DRN-3045651
The complaint
Miss W complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) wont refund a payment 
made on her NBS credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for theatre 
tickets. 
What happened
In November 2017 four theatre tickets were purchased through the Website to attend an 
event in March 2018 using Miss Ws NBS credit card. The total cost charged to her card was 
just over £246.
Miss W has said these tickets were advertised as being the last 4 remaining and 
guaranteed to be seated together but such messages were repeatedly advertised 
afterward. Miss W says the Website used aggressive pressure tactics and decided to try 
and reverse the transaction but the Website refused by pointing to the terms and conditions 
which said all sales are final.
Miss W also points to the issue that the tickets she was provided with show a date which 
indicates that they were purchased from the primary ticket seller after she bought them on 
the Website. So she notes that when she bought them they were not resell tickets as theyd 
not been purchased at the time she bought them. So this along with the other messages the 
Website told her whilst she was considering the sale mean she says she was 
misrepresented to and accordingly she should be refunded. Miss W refers to the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 and says the Website is in contravention of this and accordingly this is 
another reason why her complaint should be upheld.
Having been unsuccessful with her complaint to the Website she then took her complaint to 
NBS so it could consider the transaction. NBS has said that it hasnt treated her unfairly in 
not refunding the transaction to her. It felt as shed received the tickets and there was no 
evidence of breach of contract or misrepresentation. So she complained here.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that NBS hadnt treated Miss W unfairly 
be not refunding her. Miss W then made significant arguments in response to this 
assessment including saying You advise that it is not for you to determine whether (the 
Website) treated me fairly or not... who's responsibility then is it? What protection then is 
available to consumers against fraudulent purchases, none?
Overall, our Investigator didnt think NBS had acted unfairly by declining Miss Ws request 
for a refund. Miss W didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. The majority of 
Miss Ws complaint points are about the Website and any complaint she has with the 
Website should be directed to it. But this Service nor I have the powers to settle disputes 
with it directly.
Nor is it about the seller who supplied the theatre tickets through the secondary ticket selling 
Website which Miss W bought (apparently purchasing the tickets supplied to Miss W after 
shed bought them on the website). The activity of selling of tickets on such as these isnt an 
activity within my remit and so I cannot consider it directly.
I can see from Miss Ws representations to the Investigator after his assessment that Miss W 
is (understandably) focusing on the behaviours of the Website. However whatever issues 
there maybe with the Websites behaviours over time it doesnt necessarily follow that NBS 
has treated Miss W unfairly. 
The question of whether or not NBS has treated Miss W fairly is the only question I can 
decide upon in this decision. And it does have obligations in relation to the Website under 
the legislation I will explain. But it is not one and the same as the Website. This is the crux of 
the matters here which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear. And the reason I can decide on 
NBS treatment of what happened here is because NBS has obligations around such 
transactions which fall within the Legislation and subsequent rules which give me the power 
to consider disputes such as this.
Miss W says she made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that she 
did this transaction with the Website in question. 
This service has seen a number of complaints about this Website and has built up a detailed 
appreciation of the process that consumers went through when purchasing tickets. This 
understanding includes understanding changes to the selling process over several years and 
what purchasers would have seen at each stage of the process. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Miss W would have gone through 
at the time she bought the tickets and what she would have seen on the Website at each 
stage. Having considered when these tickets were sold and what this service knows I 
appreciate that the full cost wasnt shown at the very beginning of the sales process. 
However Im satisfied on balance that when Miss W went through the several stages/pages 
of the sales process and got towards the end of the sales process and had to enter her card 
details, the total cost to be charged to her was shown at that point which is importantly 
before she completed the transaction.
Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Miss W and it was 
correctly applied by NBS to her credit card account with it. 
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss W 
does here, NBS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one.I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss W didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then NBS should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
NBS) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So NBS isnt solely 
responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback 
process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.
NBS has said it couldnt raise a chargeback when Miss W started to raise concerns about 
the transaction as there was nothing persuasive to suggest that the chargeback would be 
successful. And through what Miss W has said we know the tickets were provided. And 
having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) Im not 
persuaded Miss W has lost out because NBS didnt raise a chargeback. I say this because I 
dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success considering the situation and the 
chargeback rules. I also think had it raised a chargeback the Website would have defended 
it on the basis it provided what it said it would and hadnt done anything wrong. So whether 
or not NBS should have raised a chargeback I dont think makes a difference because I dont 
think Miss W has lost out here because of what NBS did.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Miss Ws NBS credit card. Under S75 of the Act, in certain 
circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against NBS as she does against the supplier 
(the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
I should make very clear here that this test is a very different test to whether Miss W thinks 
the Website could have done things better overall (which she very clearly does). Outside the 
authorisation of this transaction and its consideration of Chargeback, NBS is only 
responsible in this case due to this legislation and is only responsible for those issues which 
are ascribed to it under this legislation which has significant limits to what NBS is liable for in 
this situation. This distinction between NBS and the Website is crucial in properly 
appreciating this complaint. They are not one and the same. Considering the tenor of Miss 
Ws arguments and their being directed toward the Website largely, I cannot emphasise this 
key issue enough.
Section S56 of this Act is also important here. In summary section 56 has the effect of 
making NBS responsible during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Miss W entering 
into the agreement. In essence this means NBS can be held responsible for the things that 
were done or said during the sales process before the agreement was reached. And this is 
important as Miss W points to various comments made by the website early in the sales 
process. For a valid claim under Section 56 or 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does 
provide a service and for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says 
it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Miss W, NBS and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as venue, date, time, 
and price) is displayed to buyers. Under the guarantee its responsible for providing 
replacement tickets or a refund if the seller (the original purchaser of the tickets who is now 
selling them through the Website) doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets.
For a successful claim here Miss W would need to show a breach of contract or material 
misrepresentation by the Website, not as Ive said before that the Website could have done 
better or more. As Ive mentioned this service has built up a thorough understanding of the 
websites processes and what consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. 
Clearly in any sales process things can be done better. But NBS can only be responsible 
here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted 
Miss Ws decision to purchase. Which is a different test than to that of whether or not Miss W 
feels the websites sales process was fair or whether she was told every possible piece of 
information. Clearly there was no breach in delivering the tickets because the tickets Miss W 
bought were supplied to her. So was there a misrepresentation which made a difference 
here?
Misrepresentation
Miss W has argued repeatedly that there are misrepresentations here. But that isnt quite the 
test applicable here. The test is a three-part test, and this is essentially 1) was Miss W told 
something she relied upon 2) which wasnt true 3) which led to her suffering a detriment 
shed otherwise would not have suffered.
Miss W has made clear that she bought the tickets because she wanted to go to the 
theatrical event in question. Miss W has provided screenshots from the time and has made it 
clear she was aware that this was a ticket reselling site. So she was aware that it wasnt the 
primary seller of the tickets. In essence she was buying from a secondary market and knew 
this when she bought the tickets. And as Ive described the website provided a guarantee 
which meant that if the tickets werent provided the website would either source her the 
tickets she wanted or provide a refund. So Im not satisfied she has suffered a detriment 
here which NBS should be responsible for. She bought the tickets knowing how much they 
were and got them. So broadly speaking I dont see what loss has been suffered here by 
Miss W that NBS should be liable for.
Im also not persuaded that Miss W has provided persuasive argument that there were 
misrepresentations when she points to comments like last 4 remaining, only x tickets left, 
less than 2% of tickets left for this event or about to sell out. It is clear these 
representations are with regard to the secondary market the Website is providing as Miss W 
was aware that this is a secondary ticket selling website. So in essence these comments are 
in relation to the number of tickets being sold by this site at any particular time rather than 
the totality of all tickets being sold by the primary entity selling the tickets. So the fact that 
more tickets were on sale later doesnt make these representations untrue at the time they 
were made. Secondary markets are far more volatile than primary markets. It maybe sellers were drip-feeding the sales of tickets on the Website in order to make more profit. Miss W 
points to tickets coming on sale immediately after she bought hers late at night. This could 
easily be a seller drip-feeding the sale of such tickets. After all this is a secondary market 
which due to its nature is more volatile and heavily driven by both supply and demand. So 
Im not persuaded that such comments on the website have been shown to be untrue. For 
example Miss W has not provided any data from the website showing this information was 
untrue. She has only pointed to later sales and suggested that they appear to show the 
earlier comments to be untrue. But this could easily be the sellers providing supplies of 
tickets in such a way as to leverage greater profit.
And even if I was persuaded these comments were untrue Miss W accepts she wanted the 
tickets, paid the price for them and got them-so I dont see how she lost out because of 
these comments. Further as she accepts she wanted the tickets, whether they were the last 
or the first available its clear to me she was happy to pay the price shown-so Im not 
persuaded she relied on these comments in her decision whether or not to buy them. So in 
relation to these comments I think Miss Ws arguments are unpersuasive to me.
Consumer Rights Act (CRA)
Miss W says that the website has broken part of the CRA because there is a requirement for 
details to be given regarding the particular seat or standing area your ticket is for, including 
the block of seats and row number. But it doesnt follow that just because Miss W says the 
Website is in contravention of the CRA that that makes NBS liable here. As Ive explained 
NBS only has liability here for breach or misrepresentation. And in describing the position of 
the seats the Website has not stated anything untrue. So there is nothing for NBS to be 
liable for. So in essence just because Miss W says the Website broke the CRA this isnt 
enough to make NBS responsible.
Purchased tickets that hadnt been bought yet
Miss W has made many arguments regarding the fact that the tickets she received were 
dated after the date that she purchased them as resold tickets. Firstly I should point out that 
just because the tickets were dated after when Miss W bought them on the Website it 
doesnt necessarily follow that the seller didnt have access to tickets that matched the 
requirements Miss W wanted when they advertised them and was able to sell them. 
 
And its important to remember she didnt know about this issue at the time she bought them 
anyway and Ive seen no comments made by the website at the point of sale saying that the 
tickets wouldnt show a purchase date on them later than the date they were bought on the 
Website (as they are here). But importantly the guarantee the website provided was 
disclosed on the Website when she made the purchase so Miss W would have known she 
had a safety net if anything went wrong with the tickets-which was evidently enough for her 
to be happy to purchase the tickets as she did in the first place. 
NBS can only be responsible for breach or misrepresentation. But in this regard she got the 
tickets and there is no persuasive evidence that they werent acceptable by the venue. So 
there is no breach of contract. And I havent seen a misrepresentation on this point which 
Miss W relied on to her detriment-notwithstanding the point I dont see any detriment 
because of this issue as she bought the tickets and got the tickets for the event she wanted 
to go to at the price she was willing to pay. And ultimately as Ive described the website isnt 
responsible for the provision of the tickets. 
Lastly I should add that Miss W suggests that the tickets were advertised without being in 
the sellers possession and the tickets themselves only purchased to fulfil the sale made to 
Miss W. But even if that was the case Im not persuaded she lost out as a result. She wanted the tickets; paid the price they were on sale for and got the tickets. And if they werent 
provided (which they were) she had the safety net of the guarantee. And she didnt know any 
of this when she bought them-so this issue didnt impact her decision making. And I dont 
think it creates any significant unfairness on her at the point of purchase.
Media comment
Miss W points to online comment about the website, legal processes and a vast array of 
other argument about the Website. Clearly much has changed since she bought these 
tickets about ticket selling websites such as this. And I can imagine that much of what has 
changed might be galling to Miss W when considered in relation to this purchase. But all of 
that doesnt change the fact that I can only consider whether NBS has treated Miss W fairly 
in its decision not to refund the cost of the tickets. NBS is only liable if there is breach or 
misrepresentation by the website and Im not persuaded there was. And I can only consider 
what NBS did here as the website isnt within my powers directly to decide upon.
Other cases/legal cases
Miss W points to other cases and proceedings in other dispute avenues. There is no debate 
that pertinent questions and issues are raised about the secondary ticketing market. But 
those are not for this service or this decision of mine. I can only decide on whether NBS 
acted fairly in relation to what its obligations and what is fair and reasonable in relation to this 
transaction in that context. I should add that although I have to consider the law in my 
decision making, the rules that set out my powers make clear that Im not bound by it. I am 
obligated to make fair and reasonable decisions and give reasons for those decision which 
Im satisfied Ive done that here.
aggressive pressure tactics
Miss W refers to aggressive pressure tactics being used in the sale here. This is purely an 
online process with no in-person real time interaction. Normally such hard sales tactics are 
where sales staff use intimidation, physical threats or prolonged imposing sales practices 
person to person. In this situation Miss W was navigating through a Website and could exit 
the page at any time. There was no human to human real-time pressure applied here. Miss 
W has referred to the time pressure element of making decisions and the fear of missing out 
issues related to this site. However Im not persuaded that she was under such intense 
pressure here that she lost her decision-making capabilities or was under significant duress.
The guarantee
Miss W has pointed to the guarantee and asked how the Website could give such a 
guarantee when the tickets hadnt been purchased. But she hasnt lost out here as she got 
the tickets she wanted. So the guarantee never needed to be relied upon. And ultimately it 
was in place and the website would have had to fulfil it. The issues raised here would be for 
between the seller and the website to resolve between them afterward. So I dont think Miss 
W lost out because of this. 
Financial Limits
S56 of the Consumer Credit Act sets out how NBS can be liable under the Act for breach 
and misrepresentation by a supplier in a DCS arrangement. Importantly the financial limits 
described by the Investigator regarding S75 do not apply to cases considered under S56. So 
although the Investigators position was correct on that matter I can consider this case under 
S56. However a claim under the Act can only be successful if there is shown to be a breach 
of contract or a material misrepresentation at some stage in the transaction. Throughout Miss Ws main argument is that there has been misrepresentation throughout the sales 
process she went through. But for the reasons given Im not satisfied there is 
misrepresentation here for the reasons given. So whether I consider it under s56 or s75 
doesnt make a difference or cause any unfairness to Miss W. 
NBS handling of Miss Ws claim
Miss W points to issues with NBS complaint handling. Complaint Handling by firms is not an 
issue within my remit. It is for the Financial Conduct Authority to consider how NBS meets its 
complaint handling obligations. My role is to decide whether NBS treated Miss W fairly in 
regard to her dispute with the Website. It is my decision that NBS stance on the transaction 
in itself, Chargeback and liability under the Act and ultimately not refunding Miss W for the 
transaction in question was fair and reasonable.
However I must add I have a significant amount of sympathy with Miss Ws position on this 
matter. I can see she has pointed to lots of things she didnt like about the sales process the 
website had. And it is clear that over the intervening years there has been much movement 
in this type of market and evidence of improved sales practices and indeed significant 
involvement by various authorities in and around these issues. So I can understand why 
Miss W feels aggrieved at some of the matters shes raised. And it seems likely that were 
she to purchase tickets now through such a market her experience might be different to that 
discussed here. So as I say I have significant sympathy for her position and imagine my 
decision isnt what she wanted to read.
Nevertheless NBS is a third party here and were it not for this Act it wouldnt have any direct 
liability here whatsoever. It is not one and the same as the website and this is the crux of the 
matter. NBS only has to meet its obligations here. It isnt treated as if it were the website. It is 
only responsible for the processing of the transaction, Chargeback and considering claims 
under the Act. Having considered everything Miss W has said for the reasons Ive given I 
dont think Miss W has lost out because of how NBS has treated her overall, as I think it has 
treated her fairly. Accordingly Miss Ws complaint is unsuccessful. And NBS has nothing 
further to do with this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman