DRN-2969514
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Tilney Financial Planning Limited (Tilney) gave an unsuitable 
recommendation to invest in EIS schemes. 
What happened
In early March 2015 Mrs J and Mr J met with an adviser from Tilneys predecessor to 
discuss their investments. Tilney then met with Mrs J and Mr Js accountant and following 
these meetings they provided a tax led recommendation, in which Mrs J and Mr J were 
advised to invest £175,000 each into EIS schemes.
It is common ground that at the time, Mrs J and Mr J held joint assets valued at over 
£17,000,000 and received an annual joint income of over £1,150,000. They were anticipating 
a capital gains tax liability of £350,000 from sale of a property in April, which they were 
looking to defer. It was also recorded that they wished to manage their affairs tax efficiently 
so that wealth could flow through the generations. They were advised to retain £100,000 in 
cash and invested the balance of £350,000 into the EIS schemes, which amounted to 1.7% 
of their combined assets.
Mrs J and Mr J say they have sustained significant capital losses, in the region of £162,714, 
for which they seek compensation along with a refund of the adviser fees.
Those acting on behalf of Mrs J and Mr J maintain that the recommendation was unsuitable 
because it exposed Mrs J and Mr J to more risk than they wanted or needed to take. Theyve 
highlighted that Mrs J and Mr J had a cautious attitude to risk, but the EIS schemes were 
high risk. It is said that Tilney misrepresented the level of risk with the EIS schemes as Mrs J 
and Mr J were told the capital sum invested would not reduce and each of the schemes was 
low to medium risk. Further, Mrs J and Mr J were told that their investment was fixed for 
three years but two of the products continued without their consent or agreement.
Tilney maintain that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs J and Mr Js needs and 
objectives at the time. Tilney also dispute the level of losses claimed by Mrs J and Mr J.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He considered     
Mrs Js and Mr Js income and assets at the time and concluded that the amount they were 
advised to invest was not unreasonable. They had the capacity to re-build any losses 
sustained. Our investigator took into account that Mrs Js and Mr Js attitude to risk was 
defined as cautious but for these investments they were prepared to take more risk to 
achieve tax relief. Tax planning was the focus of the recommendation and a tax liability was 
due to arise from sale of a property. The EISs met the financial objectives due to the tax 
relief available. Further, our investigator thought Tilney had been clear that Mrs J and Mr J 
might not get back all the funds invested and the high risk with EISs had been explained. 
Overall, our investigator thought that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs Js and       
Mr Js needs at the time.
Those acting on Mrs Js and Mr Js behalf, disagree with the view. They maintain that Tilney 
misrepresented the risks and say Mrs J and Mr J were not advised that their capital was at 
risk.
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to acknowledge Mrs Js and Mr Js disappointment in having sustained 
losses. I dont doubt they feel strongly about this complaint. As Tilney provided investment 
advice, Ive considered whether the recommendation was suitable for Mrs Js and Mr Js 
needs, taking into account their objectives, capacity for loss, attitude to risk and 
circumstances at the time the advice was given. 
Mrs J and Mr J havent disputed their financial circumstances recorded in the 
recommendation letter. As at March 2015, they held joint residential and commercial assets 
worth over £17,000,000 and received an annual joint income of over £1,100,000. In addition, 
they held £450,000 in cash. Both Mrs J and Mr J were in good health and they were in the 
process of selling a property, which was going to realise a capital gains tax liability of 
£350,000 in the near future. Mrs Js and Mr Js expenditure was significantly below their 
income. Taking all these factors into account, I am satisfied that they had the capacity to 
withstand losses.
Mrs J and Mr J maintain that they were cautious investors. Whilst their overall attitude to risk 
was recorded within the recommendation letter as cautious, it was also recorded that Mrs J 
and Mr J were prepared to take a higher exposure to risk to achieve tax benefits for these 
particular investments. The recommendation letter expressly stated, you are aware that the 
risk involved with this type of investment is much greater than you usually opt for but your 
need for tax relief outweighs these feels and you are comfortable with this level of risk for 
this specific investment.
Theres nothing to show that this statement was challenged at the time and it isnt disputed 
that tax efficiency was important to them (as addressed below). So, I think its more likely 
than not that this was an accurate reflection of Mrs Js and Mr Js intention at the time. 
Moreover, Ive taken into account that the sums referred to within the recommendation 
amounted to only 1.7% of their combined assets. So, set in context of their wider 
circumstances and property investment portfolio, Im not satisfied that they were exposed to 
more risk than they wanted to take at the time with these particular investments.
I also dont agree that the risks were misrepresented. The recommendation letter explained 
that tax led investments were considered to be speculative, which meant that investors 
would have, no concern over potential investment losses, which could be significant. Tilney 
highlighted that even if the investments failed completely, tax benefits would have been 
secured. So, the possibility of losing all capital was raised. Further information in the 
appendix explained that EIS products were for investors who understood speculative risk. I 
think its helpful to clarify that Tilney did not hold the schemes out as being low to medium 
risk, but said the particular recommended products were low to medium relative to other EIS 
schemes, all of which were high risk. Thats clear from the section on disadvantages with 
EIS schemes generally which said that, Direct investments in small companies are treated 
as speculative and high risk even in a diversified portfolio of EIS companies. 
Further risks were highlighted in the general risks section, which warned that tax -led 
investments should be regarded as, long-term, high-risk and illiquid in nature and is only 
suitable for investors who are capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such investments and who have sufficient funds to bear any loss which might result from such investments 
(which may be equal to the whole amount invested.)
I think its also helpful to add that references to capital preservation within the 
recommendation letter relate to the investment strategy for the particular EIS schemes, 
which is separate to the level of risk with these types of investment.
Despite all the information and explanations provided by Tilney as to the risks of investing in 
EISs, Mrs J and Mr J elected to proceed with the recommendation to invest. Ive noted from 
the recommendation letter that the level of risk was also discussed with Mrs Js and Mr Js 
accountant at the time before they took the decision to invest. The recommendation letter 
records that Tilney worked closely with the accountant to formulate the advice which had a 
heavy bias towards tax planning. Taking all these factors into account, I am satisfied, on 
balance, that Mrs J and Mr J were aware of the risks associated with the investments and 
they were content to proceed at the time.  
The purpose of the advice was to provide tax planning and its clear from the objectives set 
out in the recommendation letter that Mrs J and Mr J were looking to defer capital gains tax 
and it was a priority for them to secure income tax efficiency. Further, they stood to achieve 
30% income tax relief and inheritance tax relief in the future. Figures were given as to the 
likely sums that could be saved and the recommendation went onto say that tax savings 
would be made, even if the EIS failed completely. So, overall, I think its more likely than 
not that the product met their investment objectives.
Ive also taken into account the information provided about the timeline for the EIS schemes. 
In order to realise capital gains tax and income tax benefits, EIS schemes need to be held 
for a qualifying period of at least three years, during which time funds cannot be accessed. 
This was set out clearly within the recommendation letter. Tilney explained that investment in 
the schemes should be held for the long term. Further, that EISs typically matured within 
three to five years. However, the section on risk of EIS schemes highlighted that they were 
illiquid, sometimes locking shareholders into an investment without a means of disposing of 
the shares. I appreciate that memories fade with time and on balance, I think Mrs J and Mr J 
are mistaken that any guarantees were given about a three-year limit. 
Considering these matters in the round, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that the 
recommendation was suitable for Mrs J and Mr J. It met their objectives, they had capacity to 
withstand losses and Im satisfied that the level of risk exposure was something they wanted 
for these particular investments. Its unfortunate that the risks identified by Tilney 
materialised, but as Ive explained, it doesnt follow that Tilney did anything wrong.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J and Mr J but I wont be asking Tilney to do anything more.
It is also open to Mrs J and Mr J to consider whether they are eligible to claim loss relief.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J and Mr J, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman