DRN-2955937
The complaint
Mr D complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) avoided his buildings insurance 
policy and refused to settle his claim. Any references to Fairmead include its agents. 
What happened
Mr D took out a buildings insurance policy with Fairmead in March 2019. He renewed the 
policy by phone in March 2020. During the call, Mr D was asked about any changes to the 
property. He explained he was planning on making some structural changes and he 
expected these to cost no more that £25,000. 
In May 2020 there was a fire at Mr Ds home causing significant damage. He contacted 
Fairmead to make the claim and they arranged for a loss adjuster to visit Mr Ds property. 
During the loss adjusters visit, Mr D was asked about the renovation works that hed been 
undertaking. In this conversation, Mr D said the renovation was intended to take a number of 
years and he expected the total cost to be between £100,000 - £150,000.  
In July 2020, Fairmead told Mr D it was avoiding his policy. It said Mr D didnt take 
reasonable care when answering the question asked about the cost of renovations. Mr D 
says this was because when discussing the renovation with the loss adjuster, he estimated 
the full refurbishment cost would be between £100,000 and £150,000 in response to a 
question. But when he had renewed the policy, he had given the figure he believed he would 
spend during that single policy year. Mr D says this was in line with his recollections of a 
question asked when he took out the policy the year before. 
Fairmead considered Mr Ds answers to be a deliberate misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to avoid the policy. It said it could do this as, if Mr D had been clear the total renovation 
works would cost more than £75,000, it wouldnt have offered cover. Fairmead says it was 
clear from the conversation Mr D had when he renewed the policy in March 2020 the total 
renovation cost would exceed £75,000, but he failed to disclose this. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He didnt 
consider Fairmead asked Mr D clear questions and, on that basis, Mr D hadnt made a 
misrepresentation. He said Fairmead should deal with the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and pay Mr D £1,000 compensation. The investigator said that, as Mr D 
indicated hed been paying for alternative accommodation from a payment from his contents 
insurer, Fairmead should refund Mr D any payments he can evidence hed made and pay 
interest at 8% simple.  
Fairmead didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
maintain Mr D misrepresented the cost of renovations to it. Mr D broadly accepted the 
investigators conclusion but wanted clearer direction of how the claim, including certain 
items like a kitchen hed purchase, would be settled. Mr D also thought the compensation for 
distress and inconvenience couldnt be calculated until the claim had been settled. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2021. Heres what I said:
In reaching my conclusion, I appreciate Mr D would like me to consider the actions of the
other organisations involved in this matter. But my role is to consider the actions of
Fairmead. As the insurer, the decision to avoid the policy was made by them. And while I
realise Mr D has made extensive submissions  all of which I have carefully considered  my
decision focuses on what I consider to the most relevant issues in this complaint. This isnt
intended as a discourtesy to Mr D or his submissions, rather its a reflection of the informal
nature of this service. I consider the key issue for me to decide is whether it was fair for
Fairmead to avoid the policy.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Fairmead maintains Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when he renewed the policy. It has referenced an extract from Mr Ds policy which says:
Information and changes we need to know about You must take reasonable care to
provide complete and accurate answers to the questions we ask when you take out,
make changes to and renew your policy
Fairmead says it asked open ended questions about the renovations that were taking place,
but Mr D declined to give full details on the scope and cost of the renovations planned for the
property. On this basis, Fairmead says Mr D misrepresented the total cost of the renovations
he intended to carry out at the property. It says had it known the true cost of the renovation
at the outset, it wouldnt have offered cover.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr D and the broker, who acted for Fairmead, both when
the policy was taken out in March 2019 and renewed in March 2020. I consider the key issue
here is the call in March 2020, when the policy was renewed. Below is a transcript of the
renewal conversation, where Fairmead says Mr D misrepresented the cost of the
renovations:
Call agent: is it just cosmetic work going on in the property sir?
Mr D: Its quite substantial work
Call agent: Okay, what is like? Like double storey extension, single storey?
Mr D: Its a change to the roof structure. Were creating a dormer and some
erm err a balcony
Call agent: Okay, right Ill just see[inaudible] structuralwas it structural change,
would it be sir?
Mr D: Yes it is, yeah [inaudible] timber roof
Call agent: Okay just bear with me please sir
Call agent: So Im just gonna put you on hold really quickly. Its referring at the
moment because Ive changed it to a structural change, Im going to speak to my
manager to see if the underwriter will be able to do that, okay sir?
Mr D: Yeah, sure
Call agent: Okay just one moment
Call agent: Hello sir, just to check, how much is the err works costing sir?Mr D: Well Im doing it myself err so it would be about erm really difficult to
say you know, £25,000?
Call agent: Twenty-five thousand. Okay thats fine.
There are no further questions about the cost of the works during the call. I consider the key
issue at the renewal in March 2020, is that Mr D was not asked any specific details about the
works he had confirmed were underway, despite confirmation the works were substantial.
There were no further questions about how long the works might take, or if it was an ongoing
project (which might have been indicated as Mr D confirmed at the start of the call, given he
had outlined he had already completed a number of works and he was now able to live in the
property).
Like our investigator I am more persuaded by Mr Ds account of the conversation, in that he
gave an estimate of the costs he expected to incur during that policy year. Specifically, Mr D
gave information about the changes that were being made to the roof structure and then
answered the question about the costs, indicating he was planning to undertake these
himself. Fairmead considers if Mr D was unsure of the questions being asked of him then he
could have asked for clarification. I disagree. I consider it was Fairmeads responsibility to
ask clear questions to obtain the information it required. I consider it had every opportunity to
ask further questions in order to decide if it was prepared to offer cover but chose not to do
so during the renewal call.
Fairmead highlighted a conversation Mr D had with his wife while he was on hold during the
renewal call in March 2020. They consider that in Mr D referencing other cosmetic works
during the time he was on hold from the agent is clear evidence he withheld information.
Fairmead said it believes the comments Mr D made to his wife while on hold during the
renewal call were indicative of him misrepresenting the cost of the renovations. I dont agree
with this. Instead, I interpret this as Mr D trying to have a separate conversation with his wife.
At the start of the conversation with Fairmeads agent, Mr D was clear in stating having
moved into the property they were still doing some works. I think it is reasonable to suggest
Fairmead had an opportunity to ask Mr D if there were any other works planned. I dont
agree Mr Ds comments to his wife are evidence of Mr D trying to misrepresent the position.
Fairmead became aware of potential total renovation cost during Mr Ds conversation with
the loss adjuster. Mr D says he was asked about the total budget for renovating the house.
Mr D says this led to him providing an estimate of £100,000 - £150,000. It seems from Mr 
Ds recollection, the question put to him by the loss adjuster was both quite different and
more specific than the questions asked when Mr D renewed his policy in March 2020.
As well as the conversation Mr D had with his wife during the renewal call, Fairmead also
referenced information Mr D provided by email after the fire. In these emails, he apparently
answered the question about the nature of the works as cosmetic only. Ive considered this
exchange of information and the context under which it took place. However, Im inclined to
put more weight on the questions put to Mr D at the time the policy renewed.
Additionally, Fairmead has provided this service with evidence from its underwriting criteria,
showing it wouldnt have offered the cover had it been aware of the overall value of the
renovation works. In recognising this, I consider it was Fairmeads responsibility to ask Mr D
clear questions to obtain the information it needed in order to decide if it wanted to offer
cover.
Having carefully considered all the information provided, I dont think the questions Fairmead
asked Mr D were clear enough to draw out the information it needed to know. I consider Mr
D answered the questions he was asked, based on his understanding. I am unable toconclude Mr D misrepresented the situation to Fairmead. It follows, I dont consider
Fairmead has any grounds for avoiding Mr Ds policy.
As Im satisfied Mr D did not misrepresent the situation, Ive looked at the actions Fairmead
can take in accordance with CIDRA.
I consider the policy should be reinstated, and any mention of the avoidance should be
removed from Fairmeads own database, along with external ones. In addition to this, I
consider the claim should be considered in line with the policy terms. Mr D has expressed
concern at being provided with differing copies of policy terms. In considering Mr Ds claim,
Fairmead should provide Mr D with a copy of the policy terms that apply to his policy.
Mr D said he wants us to direct Fairmead to include a kitchen being stored in the property
that had been purchased but not installed. However, Im not going to make this specific
direction in respect of the kitchen. My overall finding is that the policy should not have been
avoided, but this does not automatically mean the claim should be settled as Mr D has
requested. Because the policy was avoided, the claim was not considered in line with the
policy terms. In requiring the policy be reinstated, the next step would be for the claim to
considered in line with the remaining policy terms.
I recognise Mr D would like this service to go further in directing Fairmead to appoint an
independent expert to decide how the claim should be settled and make a cash settlement.
However, I wont be going as far as this. In the circumstances I am satisfied the fairest and
correct first step is for the claim to be considered in accordance with the policy terms and
Fairmead should confirm to Mr D what the next steps will be.
Our investigator said Fairmead should reimburse Mr D for any accommodation costs hes
incurred. Mr D has provided detailed submissions to show the costs that have been incurred
as a result of finding him and his wife alternative accommodation, along with the cost of
utilities. Mr D mentioned a payment he received from his contents insurer.
However, my overall finding is that the policy should not have been avoided. Therefore, if the
claim had been considered, Mr D might well have been entitled to alternative
accommodation in line with the remaining policy terms. Alternative accommodation is offered
by the policy and might be something Mr D is entitled to as part of the claim. But as the claim
has not yet been considered by Fairmead. It is not for me  or anyone at this service  to
decide on which basis this claim should be settled. The key issue I need to decide is if I think 
Fairmead has acted fairly in avoiding Mr Ds policy. I do not think it has. Therefore, for the
reasons Ive given, Im intending to require Fairmead to reinstate the policy, and consider the
claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
I realise that Mr D might be hoping for more from this decision. And Im sorry if thats the
case. Our investigator made it clear he considered the first step would be for the policy to be
reinstated, and I agree with that conclusion. Therefore Im not intending to direct Fairmead to
make a refund for any costs Mr D has asked for at this point, unless its something Mr D is
entitled to under the policy when the claim is considered.
Mr D stated his concerns Fairmead and their agents havent acted in line with the guidelines
of the regulator. He also says despite a number of requests that they havent answered all
his questions. Im very sorry to see how Mr D feels about this, especially under the already
difficult circumstances of losing his home in a fire. However, the role of this service is to
decide what we think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. It is not our role
to stand in the shoes of the regulator.
While Mr D has expressed his main concern about the avoidance of the policy, hes alsoraised a number of other points about Fairmeads handling of this matter. Hes complained
about being provided different policy documents, about Fairmeads handling of a Subject
Access Request, and difficulties in getting answers to his questions. I understand Mr Ds
strength of feeling here. However, my investigation is limited up to the point Fairmead issued
the final response letter in August 2020.
But given my conclusion Fairmead acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Ds policy, Ive gone on to
consider the impact this had on Mr D. Hes told us about the significant distress and
inconvenience hes experienced since he found out the policy was being avoided. Mr D has
also shared the impact this matter had on both his physical and mental health. Mr D says he
and his wife have been diagnosed with PTSD, that hes suffered with insomnia and stress
related illnesses, such as migraines since discovering the policy had been avoided.
The very experience that caused Mr D to have to claim must have been worrying and
upsetting in itself. But I consider the impact of the policy being wrongly avoided on Mr D has
been substantial. Its clear this matter has had a very long-lasting impact on Mr D and while I
note hes suggested a compensation payment might not be made until the matter has been
finally resolved, I dont agree. Having considered whats happened so far, I agree a payment
of £1,000 is a fair compensation amount to reflect the impact this matter has had on Mr D.
Fairmead responded to my provisional decision, maintaining Mr D had misrepresented the 
scope of the works intended to be carried out at the property. They referenced again the 
conversation Mr D had with his wife whilst on hold during his call with the agent, where he 
mentioned some further works intended to be carried out in the garden. 
They said it seemed from my provisional decision that I had not considered this part of the 
conversation. They still believed it indicated Mr D had misrepresented the works he intended 
to carry out. In addition to this, Fairmead wanted confirmation I had considered the planning 
permission documentation provided, showing the scope of works intended to be carried out. 
Mr D said he thought the provisional decision needed to be clearer in terms of the timeframe 
I had considered when awarding compensation. And he noted there were other areas of his 
complaints which hadnt been directly addressed in my decision. But, overall, he accepted 
my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I think at this point it would be helpful to clarify again whilst Ive considered all the 
available evidence and arguments, my final decision focuses on what I consider to the most 
relevant issues in this complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr D or to Fairmead, 
rather its a reflection of the informal nature of this service. Having done so, I still consider 
the key issue for me to decide is whether it was fair for Fairmead to avoid the policy.
Ill turn first to Fairmeads points about the phone call during which Mr D renewed his policy. 
Its not in dispute that Mr D referenced other works whilst on hold during his conversation 
with the agent. Ive considered the phone call during which the policy was renewed, 
including the conversation Mr D had whilst on hold in detail. The agent asked Mr D if he was 
just having cosmetic works carried out at which point Mr D detailed the structural changes 
that were being made to the roof. However, I remain satisfied he had been clear in setting 
out that there had already been works carried out at the property. Had Fairmead asked Mr D if there were any other work planned for the property, Im 
persuaded he would have discussed the works referred to during the conversation with his 
wife. However, the key point for me here is that Mr D wasnt asked about any further works. I 
do not consider the fact Mr D did not declare some works that, in his view, were cosmetic 
after he declared the structural works was a misrepresentation. He answered the questions 
he was asked. And he considered he was being asked questions about the roof of his 
property at that time. 
Fairmead did not ask Mr D about the conversation he had with his wife until the claim was 
made. It could have done so earlier if it was concerned he had misrepresented his answers. 
Its not the case as Fairmead suggests that I considered the conversation Mr D had with his 
wife as off the record. Thats not the case here. Rather, I remain of the view it was 
Fairmeads responsibility to ask Mr D relevant questions to ensure it had all the information 
needed to decide if it would offer cover. Having considered everything both sides have said 
again, I dont consider it did so. It follows, I cannot agree with Fairmeads suggestion Mr D 
misrepresented his answers. This is because I am not satisfied Mr D was asked clear 
questions. 
I have considered the planning documents Fairmead refers to. However, its not in dispute 
that Mr D was intending to carry out significant works to the property - hes never denied 
that. I think Mr D was upfront about his intention to redevelop the property during the history 
of the claim. However, I remain of the view that the key issue here is the questions Fairmead 
asked Mr D. It did not ask specific questions about more work needed or other plans for the 
property. And I think it could have done so, given Mr D had been upfront about completing 
works both when he took the policy out and when he renewed it. It follows I have not 
disregarded these documents. Instead I placed more weight on the questions Fairmead 
asked Mr D when he renewed his policy in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill turn now to Mr Ds points about the compensation I said I intended to award in my 
provisional decision. Again, I can see this has been a very difficult time for Mr D and his 
family. They needed to make a claim under some very difficult and worrying circumstances. 
Ive revisited the impact Mr D told us this matter had on him.
Mr D outlined the significant distress and inconvenience experienced since he found out the 
policy was being avoided. Mr D has also shared the impact this matter had on both his 
physical and mental health. Mr D said he and his wife have been diagnosed with PTSD, that 
hes suffered with insomnia and stress related illnesses, such as migraines, since 
discovering the policy had been avoided.
I consider the impact of the policy being wrongly avoided on Mr D has been substantial. Its 
clear this matter has had a very long-lasting impact on Mr D. While I note hes suggested a 
compensation payment might not be made until the matter has been finally resolved, I dont 
agree. 
Having considered whats happened so far, I remain of the view a payment of £1,000 is a fair 
compensation amount to reflect the impact this matter has had on Mr D from the point he 
made the claim up until Fairmead issued its final response letter in August 2020. Ive not 
considered Fairmeads handling of the claim after this point. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to:    Reinstate Mr Ds policy, removing the record of the avoidance from its own and any 
external database. 
 Consider Mr Ds claim for fire damage in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. If Mr D had completed any repairs for insured damage, his costs will need to 
be reimbursed plus interest*. 
 Consider reimbursement for any losses not otherwise covered by the policy but 
which stem from Fairmeads avoidance, plus interest*. 
 Pay Mr D £1,000 compensation. Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the related amount from the date Mr 
D incurred the cost until reimbursement is made. If Fairmead considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr D, it should tell 
him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman