DRN-3924250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to the interest 
applicable to their mortgage current account (MCA). 
What happened
For simplicity I shall simply refer to Mr and Mrs B, and any submissions made by them, as 
Mrs B. When Mrs B took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2009, it was part of the 
arrangement that an MCA was opened. This is a current account linked to the mortgage. 
The 2008 mortgage terms and conditions make it clear at paragraph 11 that interest will be 
charged to a debit balance on the MCA.
Mrs B said that when she took out the mortgage she wasnt told what the interest rate was 
on the MCA. She has also said that this interest rate is not mentioned anywhere in the 
documentation provided when the mortgage was taken out. She has said that the MCA 
statements Barclays sent to her, show an interest rate at 0% which isnt correct since they 
do, and have, paid interest. That is quite obviously true since the statements show it to be 
so. Mrs B would like the interest rate on the MCA aligned with the rate on their mortgage as 
the MCA rate is much higher.
Barclays has not consented to this service looking into Mrs Bs complaint surrounding the 
original setting up of the mortgage and MCA, arguing that Mrs B is out of time. But it did say 
that interest was being charged correctly in line with their Standard Variable Rate (SVR) and 
the amount charged has been clearly set out on the monthly statements. Barclays didnt 
agree that it had done anything wrong in this respect. It did however agree that there had 
been a delay in providing a response to Mrs Bs complaint and as such offered her 
compensation of £150.
Mrs B was unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had 
been poor service with regard to the delay in providing a response, the amount of 
compensation Barclays had offered was enough to put things right. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has argued, and Barclays have conceded, that neither the mortgage offer, the 
mortgage MCA terms and conditions, or any other document issued at the time of entering 
into the mortgage, set out what the rate of interest is. It is however evident from section 11 of 
the 2008 terms and conditions that some interest will be applied on a debit MCA balance. 
But that said, I am unable to look into this element of the complaint  that is, what was the 
rate of interest agreed to if any - because Barclays havent agreed to us doing so. 
The rules that set out which complaints we can consider are known as the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) and are contained in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
One of these rules deals with the time limits a person has for bringing a complaint to us. 
These say that we cant consider a complaint if it is referred to us more than six years after 
the event complained of. Or, if six years have passed, then we can still consider the 
complaint if no more than three years have passed from the date on which the person 
making the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that 
they had cause for complaint. 
As the mortgage was taken out in 2009, Mrs Bs complaint on this specific issue ought to 
have been submitted by 2015. But the complaint wasnt made until April 2022 and so it is 
well out of time. And I cant say that Mrs B could only have become aware of the matter in 
the last six years because clearly she knew she was being charged interest on the MCA as 
the monthly interest charged appeared on her monthly statements. There is also no 
evidence that exceptional circumstances exist here which prevented Mrs B from bringing 
their complaint within the time limits and so I am afraid I cant consider the issue of whether 
or not she was advised of or agreed to an interest rate for the MCA.
Sometimes, even though a complaint may be out of time, we can still consider it if the 
business, in this case Barclays, consents to us doing so. But Barclays havent consented 
here, so we cant.
Part of Mrs Bs complaint concerns the ongoing application of interest to the MCA. Mrs B 
feels that this is too high. Barclays say they have applied their SVR and its fair. I can look at 
this aspect of the complaint but only going back for six years from the date of the complaint, 
because this involves me looking at the interest charged each time a statement was 
prepared and issued over those six years. That takes me back to 12 April 2016.
Mrs B has always known that some interest was being charged since it appears on the 
monthly statements. In the main, the statements Barclays have produced dont show the rate 
of interest, but they always show the amount. The first statement I can see which mentions 
the rate is from March 2022 which shows that it is the Bank of England Base Rate +4.49%. 
This is the SVR and the rate previously applied. 
But the issue is whether it is fair and reasonable to apply any interest to the MCA, which I 
think it is because it is provided for in the terms and conditions. The next question is whether 
the rate of interest charged by Barclays is fair. In the absence of any evidence directing me 
as to what the rate might specifically be, or that it ought to be linked to the mortgage rate 
itself, I think the SVR rate is fair. That is the rate which Barclays say is applied to all MCAs 
regardless of the linked mortgage rate. The amount of interest charged, and the period 
charged for are clearly shown on each statement, so I cant say Barclays have not made 
Mrs B aware of the monthly interest being applied.
So, I cant say Mrs B has been misled because she knew that the MCA was always going to 
attract interest if she used it, which she did, and it appeared monthly on her statements.
Putting things right
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right in relation to providing a response to 
Mrs Bs complaint. Because of that it has offered to compensate Mrs B with £150. Ive given 
this some further thought I think what Barclays offered is fair and reasonable taking account 
of the delay concerned.So, although Mr and Mrs B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs B £150 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mr and Mrs B £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman