DRN-3645749
The complaint
Miss J complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) made an entry 
about her on the Cifas fraud prevention database in connection with a mortgage application 
and that it refused to remove this.
What happened
Miss J applied for a mortgage with Halifax in June 2019 but this was declined in September 
2019 due to fraudulent information being provided. 
Miss J says that she met someone at an event in March 2019 who posed as a mortgage 
broker. She says they discussed her right to buy and the fact she could still have a mortgage 
despite working more than one job and the man took her details. Halifax contacted her and 
said that it had received a mortgage application from her but that she had submitted 
fraudulent documents and committed mortgage fraud. Miss J says that she has never heard 
of the company entered on the application and that she didnt make the application, so 
someone had posed as her to get a mortgage. She later found out that she had a Cifas fraud 
prevention marker against her name. She asked for the call recording during which the 
application was made but Halifax wouldnt supply this as she said it wasnt her who made 
the application and the call. Miss J would like the fraud marker to be removed.
Halifax says that Miss Js application was not submitted by a broker but was made using its 
online system and then completed over the phone, with the caller providing Miss Js 
personal details. Halifax was given information about Miss Js employer and salary and a 
payslip was provided to evidence this income. A copy of the application summary was sent 
to Miss Js home address which confirmed the information given but Miss J did not contact 
Halifax to notify it that the information was false. Miss J has since confirmed her correct 
employment and income details and said that she didnt get the application summary.
Halifax has asked Miss J for additional information about her application and the broker 
used. It says that a number of checks have been made, which have identified that incorrect 
information has been given. Halifax requested copies of the documents Miss J sent to her 
broker but it has only received a draft email to Miss Js own email address containing 
documents. It says this email doesnt show that Miss J provided her genuine income 
documents to a broker, as the email is not addressed to a broker and the broker is also not 
mentioned in the documents. The company Miss J said the broker worked for has no record 
of the broker Miss J says she used and doesnt have her registered as a former client. 
Therefore Halifax is of the view that there is no evidence that there was a fraud against Miss 
J and it is not willing to remove the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator looked into Miss Js complaint and was of the view that Halifax hadnt acted 
unfairly in adding a marker with the fraud prevention agency as it was clear that the income 
information submitted on the initial application was incorrect. The investigator concluded that 
there was insufficient evidence to show exactly what happened at the time of the application. 
But she didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong and couldnt fairly ask it to remove the 
marker.
Miss J disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. She maintains 
that a broker made the application and that she submitted the genuine documents to the 
broker. Miss J says that she did not make the application over the telephone and did not 
submit any fraudulent evidence. She has provided a copy of screenshots from her email 
account; a letter from a support worker stating that Miss J told him in December 2019 that 
she had been made aware that the mortgage broker she met wasnt genuine which had 
caused many problems for her; and letters from three witnesses  one who states they were 
with Miss J when she met the broker at the event, one who states they were with Miss J 
when she gave the broker legitimate figures and one who states they went to meet the 
broker with Miss J on one occasion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services sector, allowing 
the sharing of information with financial businesses to protect themselves and their 
customers from fraud. However, the consequences for an individual of being added to a 
database can be severe, so its important that a marker is only entered where it can be 
justified. 
In order to apply a Cifas marker, a business must have reasonable grounds to believe that 
fraud has been committed or attempted, and there must be clear, relevant and rigorous 
evidence such that the business could confidently report the matter to the police should it 
choose to do so. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is that a financial 
business has found dishonesty in the information supplied by the customer.
Ive taken this into account when looking at Miss Js case. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
Halifax didnt act unfairly when it placed the marker on the Cifas database.
Halifaxs concerns were based on the fact that it suspected false employment and income 
details were declared as part of Miss Js mortgage application. Ive listened to the call 
between Miss J and Halifax in September 2019 when it calls to ask about the information 
provided in the application. During this call, Miss J tells the advisor that she hadnt heard of 
the company entered as her employer during the application process and provides the 
details of her actual employer. She also asks if the application could be resubmitted with the 
correct details.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that the information provided in the application was false. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Miss J provided her genuine employment and income 
details to a broker who went on to provide the false details to Halifax.
When Halifax was unable to verify the information in Miss Js application it contacted her to 
ask for information. When she claimed that a broker had posed as her and submitted false 
information, Halifax asked her for more information about this and Miss J provided some 
screenshots from her email account and details of the broker. Halifax was unable to trace 
the broker with the details provided and did not accept that the screenshots evidenced that 
she had sent the genuine information to a broker.
I note that Miss J provided a name, number and company details for the broker she says she 
used. However, the company said that they did not have a broker with those details and 
Halifax was otherwise unable to trace the broker.
Whilst I accept that Miss J says that she was asked to upload documents, she hasnt 
provided any details of where she uploaded them to.  
Miss J has provided this service with some screenshots which she says confirm her 
correspondence with the broker and that she provided her ID and genuine income at the 
outset. These appear to be the same screenshots provided to Halifax. I have considered the screenshots but these only show an email draft to herself dated 10 June 2019 with some 
documents and photos attached. Miss J has not provided a copy of any email she sent to a 
broker with these documents at the relevant time. Likewise, I have seen no independent 
evidence of any correspondence or communication between a broker and Miss J. 
I understand that Miss J says that she reported the fraud to the police, FCA and other 
relevant agencies. I can see that she also told a healthcare worker about the fraud in 
December 2019. However, I dont think that Miss J telling others that there was a fraud in 
itself provides evidence that there was in fact a fraud. I also have to bear in mind that this 
was after she was advised by Halifax that it had not been able to verify the details on the 
application and was told by the advisor to report the matter if a broker had posed as her. 
I have also considered the statements Miss J has provided from her three witnesses who 
say respectively that they were present when she met the broker, when she gave the broker 
the correct details and when she went to meet the broker on another occasion. These 
statements were not provided to Halifax at the time and were provided to this service in 
August 2022, some three years after the events in question. In any event, I still dont 
consider that any of these statements provide independent evidence that Miss J gave a 
broker her genuine employment information and that the broker then submitted false 
information to Halifax on Miss Js behalf.
As set out above, I am satisfied that the information provided in the application was false. 
Halifax asked for clarification around this issue and Im satisfied that it had reasonable 
grounds to suspect that it had received false information from Miss J in support of an 
application and that it applied the marker fairly to the fraud prevention database. Having 
received further information since the marker was applied, I am of the view that there is 
insufficient evidence to demonstrate that someone other than Miss J provided the inaccurate 
information. So I am also satisfied that the grounds Halifax had for applying the marker 
remain and I wont be asking it to remove this. 
In light of the above, I dont think it was unfair that Halifax put the marker on the Cifas 
database and I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman