DRN-3833472
The complaint
Mrs D complains that when she made a claim for her dogs treatment it was declined by 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd as they say her dog is overweight.
What happened
Mrs D has had insurance cover for her dog with C&G since April 2019. Her policy covers her 
for vet fees up to £1,000, subject to a £90 excess. The policy contains a general exclusion 
for claims resulting from Mrs Ds dog being medically overweight, or underweight, where this 
results in the dog needing treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical 
weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by an independent vet.
In January 2022 Mrs D took her dog to the vet for his annual vaccinations and she told the 
vet that hed been limping from time to time on his left hind leg. It was noted that had Left 
stifle crepitus and flexion/extension. He was seen again on 10 February 2022 and X-rays 
under sedation were recommended.
X-rays were taken under general anaesthetic on 23 February 2022 and these are said to 
have shown distinct draw left stifle, effusion present in caudal joint, bilateral hip dysplasia 
right stifle, patella has luxated anteriorly with osteophytes at tibial tubercle and calcification 
with in patella ligament, suggestive of historical tibial tubercle avulsion. The x-rays were to 
be reviewed to confirm cruciate disease. So Mrs Ds dog needed surgery on his left hind leg 
which was booked in for April 2022.
Mrs D submitted a claim to C&G for her dogs x-rays and surgery, but this was declined 
under a general policy exclusion as they said her dog was overweight. C&G said the dog 
had a history of problems with his joints, but despite this hed continued to gain weight, and 
was obese.
Mrs D provided a letter from her vets surgery dated 25 May 2022 saying that her dog was 
an appropriate weight when he had his x-rays in February 2022 and his later surgery. Post-
surgery his exercise had been limited as he was on cage rest. But he was still an appropriate 
weight. They also said that he was a well-built dog with a taller than average frame for his 
breed.
Mrs D raised a complaint with C&G about her claim being declined, which they didnt uphold. 
They maintained that her dog was overweight, and that this is likely to have caused issues 
with his joints and inflammation, as they say fat tissue can cause systemic inflammation 
throughout the body. And that by-products of this can alter the enzymes that keep cartilage 
and connective tissue healthy, which can lead to degeneration in the cartilage and joints. 
C&G considered the letter from Mrs Ds vets surgery, but said it was written by nurse, not a 
vet, and they said the dogs ideal weight should have been 12.5kg, but it was recorded as 
17.5kg, which is obese and hed been overweight for most of his adult life.
Mrs D wasnt happy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case 
and upheld her complaint. She said that C&G had applied the exclusion relating to weight 
unfairly, saying that the dog was overweight based on the average recommended weight for 
his breed. But Mrs D had provided a letter from a veterinary nurse confirming hes a large 
dog for his breed and had at all times been an appropriate weight. Our investigator said she 
was persuaded by the nurses testimony as shed examined the dog.
Our investigator also said that even if Mrs Ds dog was overweight, C&G would need to 
provide evidence that this had caused his condition, which they hadnt done. So she said 
C&G should reassess her claim and pay £100 compensation for the distress Mrs D had 
suffered as a result of her claim being unreasonably delayed.
Mrs D accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt. They maintained that the dog was 
overweight and this had caused degeneration in his cartilage and joints.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds policy contains a general exclusion which says claims wont be covered if they 
result from your pet being medically overweight and this results in your pet needing 
treatment.
C&G have said Mrs Ds dog was not just overweight, but obese, and had been for most of 
his adult life. They say this is because the average weight for a dog of his breed is 12.5kg 
and his weight is 17.5kg. Theyve not seen the dog, yet theyve dismissed evidence from Mrs 
Ds vet that the dog was large for his breed, and that before, during and after his treatment, 
even when hed been on cage rest, he was an appropriate weight. Their only reason for 
doing this appears to be that the letter was written by a veterinary nurse rather a vet. 
Theyve not provided any valid reason why a veterinary nurse cant accurately record and 
comment on the dogs weight. And theyve failed to consider that while the dogs weight is 
recorded in his clinical records, theres no comment on this or any concerns noted about it, 
when he was examined by a vet.
So having reviewed the dogs clinical records, the letter provided by Mrs Ds vets and Mrs 
Ds own testimony that her dog wasnt overweight, I prefer this evidence to C&Gs statement 
that the dog was overweight. 
Even if the dog was overweight, for me to say that C&G had correctly applied the policy 
exclusion, there would have to be clear evidence that his weight had led to his joint problems 
and the need for his x-rays under sedation and subsequent surgery. C&G havent provided 
any such evidence. All theyve done is set out a general statement that being overweight can 
lead to degeneration of a dogs joints and cartilage. 
Im not persuaded that C&G acted fairly when they applied the exclusion relating to her dog 
being overweight to Mrs Ds claim. So they should pay her claim up to her policy limit, 
subject to any applicable policy excess.
And I think Mrs D has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of C&G unfairly 
declining her claim so they should also pay her £100 compensation for this.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
To put things right I required them to pay her claim up to her policy limit, subject to any 
applicable policy excess. And to pay her £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered as a result of her claim being declined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman