DRN-2937477
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans administered
her loans and about how it reported information about her repayment history on her credit
file.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Cs complaint. Miss C did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not going to be asking Dot 
Dot Loans to do any more than what it had already agreed to do. A copy of the background 
to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Dot Dot Loans lent one loan for £500 to Miss C in July 2019, payable through six monthly
instalments.
Miss C was unable to make any regular payments towards the instalment loan. This led to
the loan being sold to a third party to recover and a default being recorded to credit
reference agencies. I understand based on what Miss C has told us, that the debt has now
been repaid.
Miss C feels that Dot Dot Loans reported the default late and has questioned the way her
loan was administered. Miss C also made a complaint about irresponsible lending.
Our adjudicator felt that Dot Dot Loans ought to have reported the loans status as in default
from 16 January 2020 rather than 10 March 2020 (the date Dot Dot Loans reported). She
also didnt think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to lend the loan.
Dot Dot Loans has agreed to change the date of the default with credit reference agencies in
line with the adjudicators assessment. It says it has also asked the third party to amend the
default date. When Miss C contacted the third party to ask for the default to be removed, I
understand it said the default entry for the sold debt would need to match the default entry
that Dot Dot Loans requests for the original loan.
Miss C doesnt appear to disagree with the adjudicators assessment that Dot Dot Loans
wasnt wrong to have lent the loan. But she has asked for her complaint about the way Dot
Dot Loans administered the loan to be reviewed. In summary, Miss C has said:
she didnt receive the summary of borrowing until three months after the loan was
lent and then heard nothing further about the loan for a further six months when she
was contacted by debt collectors;
Dot Dot Loans failed to speak to her about the debt which led to the loan defaulting
and being sold;
reminders that the debt was outstanding were important because she had other debt
and her mental health had deteriorated, affecting her ability to deal with the issue;
it was the debt collector who said a default notice had been issued, but she never
received it by e-mail or through the post from Dot Dot Loans;
Dot Dot Loans should have sent the default notice by e-mail rather than post as it
had done with other communication, such as for the loan agreement;
the default should be recorded after three months missed payments particularly as
she didnt have the capacity to deal with the debt at the time;
she asked, as a gesture of goodwill, for a default not to be recorded because it may
lead to difficulties when credit checks are completed, for example, if she needs to
move home.
The adjudicator asked Dot Dot Loans to consider whether it would move the default date
back to three months after the missed payments, but it declined to do so.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Miss C doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Dot Dot Loans wasnt
wrong to grant the instalment loan. It seems therefore this issue isnt in dispute and so I no
longer think that I need to make a finding about it.
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Dot Dot Loans reported information about
Miss Cs repayment history to the credit reference agencies correctly.
Miss C says that she wasnt aware of the status of the debt, because she didnt receive any
notifications from Dot Dot Loans, for example emails or letters that shed missed payments.
This service asked to see a record of any of these letters. But the only information that it
seems to have sent her, are the summary of borrowing, a letter about when her direct debits
would be collected between October and December (both of these were sent in October)
and the default notices in December and February.
I appreciate, that Miss C says she wasnt able to track this debt because she didnt get any
letters about missed payments, which based on the evidence so far appears to be correct.
But there were letters sent during this time, that highlighted she had a debt. And I know that
Miss C was having some health problems at the time. But, I dont think the lack of say a
missed payment letter wouldve made a material difference in this case. This is because Im
not persuaded that Miss C wouldve been able to repay her loan as she agreed to initially if
she had received more ongoing information about it.
principles for reporting repayment difficulties
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is the body set up to deal with a customers
personal information. In July 2016 it released an updated paper called Principles for
reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This
document set out principles for lenders (which Dot Dot Loans is one) when reporting
information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Understandably, the ICO requires that information reported on a credit file is ..fair, accurate,
consistent, complete and up to date and where regular payments are not made by theagreed date, principle two of the document says:
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported
to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported 
arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form of action. This 
could include notification of their intention to report the account as defaulted.
It's not in dispute that Miss C wasnt paying her regular contractual repayments for the
agreed amount. So, considering these principles in connection with Miss Cs repayment
history, Im satisfied that it was fair for Dot Dot Loans to report her arrears to CRAs.
Should Dot Dot Loans record a default? If yes, should this be earlier as Miss C says?
Principle four of the ICO guidance explains that generally a default may be recorded when
you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
The loan started on 2 July 2019 and repayments were scheduled to be paid over six months
from 26 July 2019 to 13 December 2019.
Dot Dot Loans has explained that the loan agreement was sent to Miss C and she digitally
signed the documents in acceptance of the terms. Miss C has also confirmed she received
the summary of borrowing three months after the loan was lent. This was sent to Miss C on
24 October 2019. Miss C has also mentioned the default notice ought to have been sent by
e-mail as other communication such as her loan agreement had been. This seems to
indicate she did receive the loan agreement. So, I think Miss C should reasonably have been
aware of the terms of the loan and the required repayments.
I understand that Dot Dot Loans issued a default notice to Miss C on 16 December 2019 and
10 February 2020 followed by an arrears notice on 19 February 2020. I appreciate Miss C
thinks default notices should be sent by email but there was no requirement for notices to be
sent in this way. Dot Dot Loans has taken the decision to send them via post, and that is
consistent with standard industry practice. And Ive not seen anything in this case to indicate
that the notices were sent albeit I accept that Miss C says they werent received, the
obligation on Dot Dot Loans is to show that they were sent.
Dot Dot Loans says it didnt report the default following the default notice sent on
16 December 2019 because some notices issued around this time had incorrect information
contained within them.
I think the issue to decide here is when the default should reasonably have been reported.
As Ive explained, the ICO says that when a consumer is at least three months behind with
their payments then a default may be registered, and it would expect a default to be
registered by the time the customer is six months behind with their payments. In practice
most lenders do generally make sure the relationship has fully broken down before recording
a default and register it after six months.
In this case a default wasnt recorded after three missed payments and the ICO guidance
doesnt suggest this was unreasonable. Dot Dot Loans has though agreed to amend the
date to 16 January 2020. Given that the first payment was missed on 26 July 2019, this
means the default will have been registered by the time Miss C was six months in arrears.
So, following the adjudicators assessment, Dot Dot Loans has agreed to act in line with the
ICOs guidance.
I think therefore that Dot Dot Loans has already made a reasonable offer in agreeing to
amend the default date of the loan to 16 January 2020. I understand it has already contacted
the third party to ensure the entry for the sold loan also reflects the same date. And it
appears the third party has agreed to use the same default date as Dot Dot Loans records.So, it appears the third party will also amend the default date to 16 January 2020. Miss C
may wish to check this with the third party as this decision concerns what Dot Dot Loans
needs to do.
I can understand why Miss C would prefer for the default to be recorded earlier or not at all. I
also appreciate this has been a difficult time for her and that a default on a credit report may
be viewed unfavourably. Having carefully considered what has happened though, I dont
think I can reasonably ask Dot Dot Loans to record the default any earlier when it has
agreed to act within the ICO guidance for reporting repayment difficulties. But I hope my
explanation has been helpful in explaining why I dont think I can ask Dot Dot Loans to do
anymore.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C let us know that she accepted the findings in the provisional decision. Later on, 
Miss C provided this service a screen shot showing her credit file had been updated by Dot 
Dot Loans, but the third partys record is still showing the wrong default date. 
Dot Dot Loans didnt respond to the provisional decision, so it didnt provide any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider. 
Given, Ive not received any new comment or evidence, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision and Dot Dot Loans doesnt need to do any more 
than what it was previously agreed to do. 
But, Dot Dot Loans needs to ensure that Miss Cs credit file actually reflects the new default 
date, including arranging for the third party to amend the default date.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not going to be 
asking Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans to do any more than what it has already 
agreed to do in relation to the default date. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman