DRN-3313154
The complaint
Mrs B complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold her a non-reviewable whole of 
life policy in 1989.
What happened
In 1989, Mrs B purchased a non-reviewable whole of life plan. It had a death sum-assured of 
£7,740 and a fixed premium of £20 per month. The final premium was to be paid in 2020. 
The policy was sold by another provider, but Aviva have since taken on responsibility for the 
policy and all references to Aviva can be taken as reference to the initial provider.
Mrs Bs representative complained to Aviva in 2021 that the adviser didnt establish Mrs B 
had a need for life cover or regular savings. And that the adviser hadnt considered the 
impact of a drastic reduction in the level of cover, or the risk that her premiums may have to 
increase. The representative said theres no evidence Mrs B was told about other less 
complex, lower-cost available alternatives, or that those alternatives were properly 
considered by the adviser.
Aviva provided a final response in June 2021 and didnt uphold the complaint. Aviva clarified 
the level of life cover and premium amount werent subject to change over the life of the 
policy unless Mrs B requested a change. And, Aviva said Mrs B had been provided with an 
illustration and product literature at the time and these explained how the policy worked.
Mrs Bs representative brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things for Mrs B and thought the policy wasnt unsuitable as 
Mrs B had dependents at the time. The Investigator thought there was nothing to suggest a 
term assurance policy would have been a better fit. The representative for Mrs B didnt agree 
and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. The complaint has now been passed 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will now explain why.
Theres very little documentary evidence of what was discussed when Mrs B met with the 
adviser as the sale took place more than 30 years ago. However, Ive seen the product 
literature and illustration Aviva provided Mrs B and Ive read the submissions from Mrs Bs 
representative detailing her circumstances at the time. Mrs Bs representative says Mrs B 
was married at the time, had dependents, and wasnt looking for anything at the time the 
adviser called on her. The representative says Mrs B wasnt employed and had no pension 
provision. Im therefore satisfied I can make a final decision based on what is likely to have 
happened at the time of the sale.
The policy was sold more than 30 years ago, but I would still expect the adviser to consider 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, and to assess whether any premiums would be 
sustainable. In this case seems more likely than not the adviser would have established Mrs 
B had a need for some life cover as she had dependents. It also seems that Mrs B had no 
pensionable earning at the time and was unable to contribute to a pension. Because of this I 
consider its likely the adviser also identified a long-term savings need. Taking this into 
account, it seems to me that recommending a policy combining an element of life cover and 
longer-term savings wasnt unsuitable. 
Mrs Bs representative says term assurance would have been more suitable, I cant say this 
would likely be the case here. A term cover policy would pay out on death, but it would have 
an end date for any claim. The policy sold to Mrs B provided life cover for the whole of her 
life. It carried with it some flexibility to cash in one or all of the segments of the policy if life 
cover was no longer required, or Mrs B wanted to reduce cover when any dependents left 
home. It also provided an element of savings for the longer term, another identified need.
The illustrations and product literature Aviva provided to Mrs B show a fixed monthly 
premium of £20. The premium couldnt increase unless Mrs B requested a change in cover 
as the policy was non-reviewable. Mrs B surrendered the policy in April 2021. Ive not seen 
any specific evidence that sustainability of the premiums was discussed at the time. 
However, Mrs B continued to pay premiums until the last one was due in 2020, before she 
surrendered the policy in 2021. So, I consider its fair and reasonable to conclude the 
premium was sustainable over the term of the policy and Mrs B was comfortable with it.
Mrs B representative says she hadnt much experience of financial services products as 
shed only recently moved to the UK. However, I dont consider the product literature was 
mis-leading and it explained concisely how the whole of life plan worked. The literature and 
the illustration prominently included details of the split between the protection and 
investment parts of the policy in a format I would expect to see from 1989.
My final decision
Ive decided the non-reviewable whole of life policy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
recommended to Mrs B was suitable and wasnt mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman