DRN-3224474
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) closed his 
accounts.
What happened
Mr R had two Barclaycards. The limits in December 2020 were £8,750 (card A) and £7,700 
(card B). The balances had been largely paid off in June 2020 with credits of £7,230 (card A) 
and £7,669 (card B). So, the balances in December 2020 were £187 (card A) and zero (card 
B). 
Barclaycard wrote to Mr R in January 2021 (card A) and February 2021 (card B) to say they 
intended to close the accounts. The accounts were then closed in March 2021 (card A) and 
April 2021 (card B).
Mr R complained. He said he had worked hard to build up his credit rating with Barclaycard 
and the closure of his accounts was unreasonable. As a result of losing his credit facilities he 
was now struggling as he needed the flexibility of having a credit facility. He said to us that 
Card B had been closed because he complained about the closure of card A.
In January 2021 - Barclaycard said Mr Rs account (A) was to be closed following a review 
and because of their responsible lending policies. Theyd looked at his financial situation, 
including information from credit reference agencies. Mr R had been in persistent debt and 
they didnt want him to fall back into the same position again. They wanted to ensure that Mr 
R wouldnt be caused problems by borrowing too much in the future. They said theyd acted 
in line with the terms and conditions on the accounts.
Mr R didnt accept what Barclaycard had said and asked us to look at his complaint. Our 
investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. In both cases, theyd written to Mr R to give 
two months notice of closure of the accounts. And their terms and conditions said they can 
close accounts at any time.
Mr R didnt accept what our investigator said and asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R had two accounts with Barclaycard, one with a limit of £8,750 (card A) 
and one with a limit of £7,700 (card B). Also  the balances had largely been paid off in June 
2020. And so, in December 2020, the balances were low.  So  I can see that Mr R may 
have found it odd when Barclaycard closed his accounts  in March 2021 (A) and April 2021 
(B).
But  I can also see that Mr R had been in persistent debt on both cards. This meant that  
Mr R was paying more in interest and fees than he was paying towards reducing the amount 
of the debt. He was previously notified of this  because as far as Barclaycard were 
concerned, they wouldve been worried that Mr R couldnt afford to pay the debts back. So  
it was a warning sign for Barclaycard. 
Mr R came out of persistent debt in December 2020 on both cards. This might have 
indicated that his finances were improving and so we asked Barclaycard about this. They 
told us that they took the action they did after an overall review of Mr Rs finances, including 
looking at information at credit reference agencies. The fact that Mr R had previously been in 
persistent debt was one factor they considered, but not the only one. 
I looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions. And  they do give Barclaycard the right to 
close an account if they wish, and without any notice. They say If we reduce your credit limit 
based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any 
notice beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate. (However, we may choose to 
give you up to seven days notice).
In Mr Rs case, Barclaycard wrote to him at his home address on 5 January 2021 (card A) 
and 9 February 2021 (card B). So  in each case they gave Mr R two months notice of 
closure, which I think was reasonable  and wouldve given Mr R time to apply for other 
cards if he wished. 
Mr R said to us that he didnt receive the letters  but they were sent to his address in 
Barclaycards records. And  he contacted Barclaycard in January 2021 after having 
received a letter about card A. I say this because Barclaycards letter dated 15 January 2021 
says youcontact(ed) us recently about the closure of your Barclaycard account. So, 
it does appear that he got the letter about card A  which was dated 5 January 2021  as he 
called Barclaycard because of it.
Mr R said to us that he thought that card B was closed because he complained. We asked 
Barclaycard about that as we saw a note on the file of Card B which said on 13 January 
2021 complaint SMS sent. But they told us that this just recorded that Mr R had 
complained and no more. I didnt see any further reference to this or anything suggesting 
that the action they took was in some way linked to Mr Rs complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr R felt frustrated by Barclaycards actions. But for the reasons Ive 
set out, I dont think Barclaycard acted unreasonably and so Im not going to ask them to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman