DRN-2451007
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that PSA Finance UK Limited has provided a car through a hire purchase 
agreement that wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car.
 
What happened
Miss C entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA in October 2019. The car she got 
through the agreement was brand new. The agreement was for £12,933. This was the cash 
price of the car less the £1,000 deposit Miss C had already paid. 
Miss C told us that about a month after shed got the car, she started to have problems. She 
said the anti-lock braking system (ABS) light started flashing and the engine management 
light came on. Miss C also said the cars brakes came on automatically. So she took the car 
back to the garage shed bought it from.
 
While the garage found a fault, it couldnt repair the car there and then. Instead, it asked the 
manufacturer for advice on how to deal with the problem. Once the garage received this, it 
booked the car back in to carry out software updates to the electronic control unit (ECU). 
This was around two weeks after the first inspection.
 
But a few weeks later, when Miss C was on a day trip, the problem happened again. She 
told the garage she wanted to reject the car. But it wanted Miss C to bring the car back in to 
see if the current fault was a repeat of the first one. Miss C wasnt happy with this and 
complained.
 
PSA didnt uphold her complaint. It repeated that the garage needed the chance to see if the 
current fault was related to the first one. PSA understood that Miss C was arranging for the 
car to go back to the garage for further testing. It said she was working with the garage to 
resolve the matter, and the garage had been unable to find grounds for a rejection.
 
Miss C took the car back to the garage in March 2020. A further fault was discovered. She 
said the garage told her she couldnt reject the car as this was a different fault to the first 
one. She wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. She said the 
documents shed been given showed the same fault was present both times.
 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She thought Miss C should be able to 
reject the car. In summary, she thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss C and she should be allowed to reject it. Our investigator set out what PSA 
needed to do to put thinks right.
 
Miss C accepted our investigators view. PSA didnt. It made various points including: the 
repairs that were carried out didnt support that the faults were related; Miss C hadnt 
reported any further problems since the second repair was carried out; and, it felt a rejection 
was a disproportionate resolution. 
This didnt change out investigators opinion. Again in summary, she said: Miss C was afraid 
to use the car for all but essential journeys; Miss C never wanted or consented to the second 
repair  shed already said she wanted to reject the car; and, a reasonable person would 
expect a brand-new car to operate without any significant problems or defects  this wasnt 
the case here. In response, PSA said there wasnt a fault with the car in the first 30 days and 
it had repaired the car under the terms and conditions of the manufacturers warranty.
 
As this matter remains unresolved, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first. Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: was the car supplied to Miss C by PSA of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Miss C got the car using a hire purchase agreement in October 2019. As the finance 
provider, PSA is responsible for the quality of the car provided using it. Here, the relevant 
legislation dealing with the quality of goods is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015). In 
summary, this sets out that the car provided under the agreement should be of satisfactory 
quality. When reaching my decision, Im required to take the law into account. Im also 
required to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, there are a number of factors to 
consider. These include, but arent limited to, things such as age, mileage and durability. 
Here, the car was brand new. As such, its reasonable to expect it to be fault free with no 
minor defects and in a durable condition. 
But it wasnt. Miss C started having problems around a month after she got it. The garage 
identified a problem with the cars ECU. A software update was carried out in an attempt to 
repair the problem. But not long after this, Miss C reported further problems. So Im satisfied 
the brand-new car supplied by PSA was far from fault free. 
Ive also thought about the durability of the car. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect each part 
of a car to last forever. But nor would it be reasonable to expect the ECU on a brand-new car 
to develop problems so soon after Miss C got it. 
Generally, the CRA 2015 provides that where a fault is identified within the first six months of 
Miss C entering into the agreement, its for PSA to prove the quality of the car was 
satisfactory at the point of sale  its not down to her to prove it wasnt. PSA hasnt disputed 
that the car had a fault within this period. Nor has it provided any evidence to show it was 
satisfactory at the point of sale. So, Im satisfied the car provided by PSA wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Having made this finding, Ive looked at what PSA needs to do to put things right. Miss C 
says shes lost faith in the car and wants to reject it. The CRA 2015 does indeed give Miss C 
two ways to reject the car: a right to reject if a fault occurs within 30 days of her taking 
possession of the car; or a final right of rejection if a repair or replacement doesnt result in 
the goods conforming to contract. PSA has told us no fault was reported within the first 30 days. Miss C hasnt disputed this. 
So, Im satisfied this short term right of rejection doesnt apply. But having looked at the final 
right of rejection, I do think that does apply. Ill explain why. 
Where goods dont conform to the contract  for example, theyre not of satisfactory quality - 
the CRA 2015 sets out that a consumer has a final right to reject if, after one repair has been 
carried out, the goods still dont conform to contract. 
The garage carried out a software update in January 2020 to try and resolve the problem 
with the car. But a few weeks later Miss C was still having problems. At this point, she told 
both the garage and PSA she wanted to reject the car  but PSA didnt support this. Then, 
when she took the car back to the garage in March 2020 further faults were found, including 
a problem with the built-in systems interface (BSI). So, Im satisfied that after one repair had 
been carried out, the car still didnt conform to contract. 
PSA has argued that the original fault with the ECU and the further faults identified in March 
2020 werent related. Whether or not this was the case is a moot point. The CRA 2015 
allows a single right of repair, not a right of repair for each different issue. As Ive just said, a 
repair was carried out in January 2020, but this didnt result in the car conforming to contract. 
PSA has said it feels a rejection of the car would be disproportionate. I dont agree. Miss C 
got a brand-new car under her agreement with PSA. It was reasonable for her to expect the 
car to be fault free. It wasnt. First, problems were found with the cars ECU. Then, soon 
after, further problems were found  including problems with the BSI and the emergency 
collision braking (in town) function. Im satisfied these werent trivial, insignificant problems. 
They affected the car while it was being driven. 
With these faults happening while Miss C was driving the car, and with them happening 
within only a few months after shed got it, I can fully understand why Miss C told PSA shed 
lost faith in the car and wanted to reject it. Miss C told our investigator she was reluctant to 
use the car, and only used it for strictly necessary journeys. This is backed up by the 
mileage the car has done. At the end of November 2020  over 13 months after Miss C got 
the brand-new car  it had only covered just under 2,900 miles. This isnt significant mileage 
at all for a car of this age. 
Taking all the above into consideration, Im not satisfied the car PSA provided to Miss C was 
of satisfactory quality. Nor did it conform to contract after PSA had carried out one repair. 
So, I think Miss C should have been allowed to reject the car in March 2020 when PSA 
established there were still faults with it after a repair had been done. Im satisfied in the 
circumstances she should now be allowed to do so. 
Our investigator set out what she thought PSA needed to do to put things right. In general 
terms, this was: to collect the car; cancel the agreement; return Miss Cs deposit plus 
interest; return all Miss Cs payment to her plus interest, other than her first payment; update 
Miss Cs credit file; and pay Miss C £150 for the stress and inconvenience shed 
experienced. 
I broadly agree with this, with one exception. Our investigator thought PSA needed to return 
all but one of the payments Miss C had made under the agreement. This was to reflect the 
impaired usage she experienced once the faults with the car developed. I certainly agree 
that Miss Cs usage was impaired. But Im also mindful that she did still use the car for the 
journeys she deemed strictly necessary, even if this was significantly less than might have 
been expected. To reflect this, I think its fair and reasonable for Miss C to pay half of the monthly payments 
that have fallen due under her agreement with PSA. Our investigator discussed this with 
Miss C. She accepted this position and had no further points to make. 
For completeness, I agree that PSA should pay Miss C £150 for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced over this issue. She got a brand-new car which should have been fault free but 
wasnt. Her use and enjoyment were significantly affected by these faults to the point where 
she was reluctant to drive the car. Im satisfied £150 is proportionate to the situation here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
PSA Finance UK Limited should:
collect the car from Miss C at no cost to her;
cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund the deposit of £1,000*;
refund half the monthly payments she paid since the start of the agreement until its 
cancelled*;
update Miss Cs credit file to reflect the cancellation of the agreement and remove 
any adverse markers, if applicable; and
pay Miss C £150 for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
*PSA Finance UK limited should add 8% yearly simple interest on these amounts from when 
Miss C paid them until she gets them back. If it thinks its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman