DRN-2162117
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amount of compensation Santander UK Plc (Santander) has 
offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside his mortgage.
What happened
Mr K applied for a mortgage with Santander in 2005 and at the same time took out a PPI 
policy. The mortgage funds were released on 5 October 2005 and the PPI cover also 
commenced at that date. 
Mr K complained to Santander that the PPI had been mis-sold. Santander agreed to uphold 
his complaint and offered him £250.97 in compensation after tax. Santander do not have full 
records and documents from the sale in and the records available indicate the PPI was 
cancelled in December 2005. Santanders compensation offer included a refund of all the 
premiums and also some compensatory interest.
Mr K wasnt happy with the offer as he said he paid the PPI for much longer, he believes 
until the mortgage was repaid. And he also wanted Santander to pay additional 
compensation for the trauma he says the mis-sale of the PPI has caused him.  
Mr K brought his complaint to this service and our adjudicator said the compensation 
Santander had offered was fair. Mr K remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold Mr Ks s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Therefore, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking 
at what is fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
Santander does not have full records and documents from the time of the sale, which isnt 
surprising considering the mortgage and PPI were taken out over 15 years ago. Legally 
businesses are only required to keep full records for six years.
Santander has provided a copy of its computer records, showing that the PPI Mr K took out 
was paid for by direct debit. The first payment is shown as made in November 2005 for 
£87.10. This was for the PPI premiums to cover October and November 2005. In December 
the standard monthly payment of £43.55 was taken. These are the only three payments on 
record and indicate that Mr K only made these three payments for the PPI before it was 
cancelled. The records also indicate that the payments were made by direct debit.
Santander has also been able to provide some screen shots from the PPI administrators 
system and also copies of two letters sent to Mr K when he took the PPI out. These two 
letters form a welcome to Mr K. One explains who was responsible for managing and 
underwriting the policy and the other provided some additional information and also included 
a copy of the Schedule of Insurance. 
The Schedule of Insurance for Mr K set out the monthly premium and benefit amounts and 
also indicated the amount for the first premium that would be taken by direct debit on 8 
November 2005 to cover the period until 5 December 2005. Then it indicates the amount of 
the normal monthly premium that would be taken from December 2005. This is in line with 
the monthly premium being £43.55. Information is also provided about what reference would 
show on Mr Ks bank statement against these direct debit payments, which clearly had been 
set up at the time of taking out the policy.
All this information indicates that at the time Mr K did know the PPI had been taken out as he 
was sent correspondence about it. Also, that the payment for the policy was taken by 
separate direct debit from his bank account, with a different reference against the PPI direct 
debt to that of the mortgage payment. And this would have appeared on his bank statement 
each month.
The screen shot records from the administrator of the policy also indicates that a letter was 
received from Mr K on 9 December 2005 cancelling the PPI, indicating he did not feel the 
cover was necessary. 
Taking account of all this information I am satisfied that Mr K only made three payments for 
the PPI policy before cancelling it. A copy of his letter of cancellation is no longer available 
but the administration records do show that the policy was cancelled.
So, to pay Mr K fair compensation for the mis-sold PPI, in this case, Santander needs to 
refund the total amount paid for the PPI premiums and pay compensatory interest at the rate 
of 8% simple per year. That is what the offer from Santander does.
No mortgage interest rate was ever paid on the PPI premiums as Mr K has suggested, as 
the premiums were paid separately to the mortgage, as indicated by the Schedule of 
Insurance, by separate direct debit. The PPI and Mortgage were separate products taken 
out at the same time but paid for separately.
Mr K has also raised a number of other concerns in his complaint. He has indicated he knew 
nothing about the PPI, and it was added deceptively without his agreement. He says this 
deception by Santander has caused him a great deal of trauma. So, he has requested 
further compensation for this.
The correspondence that has been provided that was sent to Mr K after taking out the PPI, 
reflects that he would have known he had the policy at the time. Clear information was given 
to him in the Schedule of Insurance and welcome pack. This all took place some years ago 
and memories do fade over time. It seems Mr Ks recollections of what happened are not 
totally accurate and I cannot see the sale of the PPI caused him any problems because it 
was added without his knowledge  as this was not the case. 
Whenever something goes wrong consumers do suffer some distress and inconvenience 
and are put to some trouble to make complaints. I havent seen any evidence that Mr K 
suffered any more stress or inconvenience than anyone else bringing a complaint about mis-
sold PPI. 
I also note Mr Ks concerns that he says he was told some years before Santander dealt with 
his complaint that he had no PPI on his mortgage. It is unclear exactly when this may have occurred, but over the years that businesses have been dealing with PPI complaints, access 
to more information in older records has become available.
I cannot say why Santander may have previously told Mr K he had no PPI, but if he had 
been unhappy with that response, he could at that time have brought his complaint to this 
service, which it seems he didnt do. Santander has now dealt with his complaint and the 
compensatory interest is calculated over a longer period of time, so he has not lost out. 
Mr K is also unhappy to rely on the screen records relating to his account and has asked for 
a copy of the direct debit mandate when he set this up for the PPI and also a copy of his 
cancellation letter. Santander do not have these documents available. The evidence 
provided from the records it has do clearly indicate a separate direct debit was set up and 
also that the policy was cancelled at the request of Mr K.  
This is the only evidence available about the direct debit and cancellation. Without any other 
evidence to show this information is for some reason wrong or inaccurate, this has to be 
accepted as evidence of what most likely happened at the time.
In summary, having taken into account all of the evidence that is available, I am satisfied that 
the compensation offered by Santander to settle Mr Ks complaint about the mis-sold PPI is 
fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I think the compensation Santander UK Plc has 
calculated and offered to Mr K for the mis-sold PPI is fair and I am not upholding this 
complaint that any more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman