DRN-1925222
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited has charged for 
retention of her car following a total loss claim she made on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss O insured her car through Advantage. She made a claim in August 2019 because her 
car had been broken into, causing significant damage. Advantage deemed the car a total 
loss on the basis it wasnt economical to repair it. Miss O was made aware of this by the 
garage, rather than by Advantage  which she wasnt happy about.
Miss Os car was categorised as a Category N write-off. This means the car hadnt suffered 
any structural damage and was repairable, but the insurer elected not to repair it.
Advantage advised Miss O that because of the category placed on the car, she could 
choose to retain it, but that the salvage cost would be deducted from the amount paid in 
settlement of the claim. At this stage, Miss O says Advantage refused to tell her how much 
the retention fee would be until she accepted it. 
Advantage calculated the market value of Miss Os car using the recognised industry trade 
guides. It valued the car at £5,137. Based on this, it calculated the retention figure to be 
£1,746.58. It says this amount is based on the amount it would expect to receive at auction, 
based on its knowledge of previous sales. 
Miss O said she had spoken with people who work in the insurance industry and had been 
advised that figure was too high. She said a figure of 10% of market value is more likely to 
be correct. Miss O also complained that Advantage failed to respond to her communications, 
that it contacted her finance company without permission and that it failed to pay her finance 
company on time  resulting in an extra charge.
Advantage said the retention figure had been calculated correctly and that it was non-
negotiable. It said this is so that all its customers are treated equally and fairly. Advantage 
accepted that the service it provided wasnt up to the standards it would expect. It said its 
agent ought to have explained to Miss O what the retention figure would be. It also accepted 
that its agent should have arranged for a colleague to call Miss O back if they couldnt do so 
themselves. Based on this it apologised and paid Miss O £75 compensation. It also paid the 
shortfall to the finance company which resulted from the payment being received late.
Miss O remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. She agreed that the customer service provided by Advantage 
would have caused Miss O additional distress. But she felt the £75 already paid was 
sufficient to compensate for it. She said the retention figure had been correctly calculated 
and that Advantage had covered the shortfall to the finance company. So, overall, she felt 
Advantage had provided a fair and reasonable resolution to Miss Os complaint.
Miss O didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O hasnt disputed the decision to declare her car a total loss or the valuation placed on 
the car by Advantage. And Advantage hasnt disputed that the service it provided during the 
claim wasnt up to the standards it expects. The issues that remain for me to decide are 
whether the retention figure Miss O was charged was fair and reasonable and whether the 
compensation Advantage has paid her is enough to fairly reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her during the claim.
Retention figure
Miss Os policy document explains what happens in the event of a total loss on page 17:
Total Loss - if your Car cant be repaired
If your Car can't be repaired or your Insurer deems the cost of repair to be 
uneconomical, your Car will be declared a Total Loss (sometimes called a "write-off).
If your Car Is a Total Loss, your Insurer may put It In storage until your claim Is 
settled. Your Insurer Is also entitled to take possession of your Car once they've 
settled your Total Loss claim.
So, under the terms of the policy, Advantage was entitled to take possession of Miss Os car. 
This means that by agreeing to return the car, in exchange for a retention fee, Advantage 
was acting outside the terms and conditions of the policy. This is why the policy document 
doesnt contain details about retention of the car.
Our service typically agrees that that an insurer should agree to allow consumers to retain 
their cars, despite what the policy says, because the car is still the consumers property until 
the claim is settled. So, they should have the right to keep it if they wish to do so. That said, 
we also typically agree that it is fair for the insurer to deduct the amount it would have 
received for the salvage. This is so that the insurer doesnt lose out as a result of the 
consumer keeping the car. 
In this case, Miss Os policy specifically states that Advantage can take possession of the 
car. So, had Advantage stuck to the terms of the policy, it would have been able to sell the 
car/salvage at auction. Miss O decided she wanted to retain the car, and Advantage agreed, 
so, I think it is fair and reasonable that it charged Miss O a retention fee so that it didnt lose 
out financially by allowing her to keep the car.
In terms of the amount it paid, Advantage has explained that, based on its knowledge of 
previous sales, cars valued between £5,001 and £12,000 are likely to bring an expected 
return of 34% of their market value when sold at auction. This figure isnt out of line with my 
understanding of the salvage market. And, as Ive explained, it wouldnt be fair for 
Advantage to lose out by selling the salvage to Miss O for less than it could get elsewhere. In addition, Advantage has provided a copy of its in-house matrix to show that the amount it 
has calculated as the retention figure for Miss Os car is in line with the percentage quoted 
and that it is the same percentage it would have applied to other customers with cars of a 
similar market value. So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Advantage has 
calculated the retention fee fairly, based on the salvage market for cars of a similar value to 
Miss O's, and that it has applied this fairly and reasonably in this case
Customer service
Miss O accepted the claim settlement and retained her car. But she feels strongly that it was 
wrong of Advantage to refuse to provide the retention fee until she agreed to accept it.
 
Advantage has accepted that its agent was wrong not to provide Miss O with the figure when 
she requested it. It says the agent could have provided the retention figure as it was a known 
percentage of the market value  which was available. It has apologised for this, and 
because the overall level of service provided by its agent wasnt up to the standards it 
expects.
I agree that it was unfair for Advantage to refuse to provide Miss O with the retention fee 
when it did. But as she was eventually made aware of the figure, and chose to accept it, I 
cant say that she has lost out as a result of this. However, Ive taken into account that 
Advantages refusal to provide the figure will have caused Miss O some unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience when deciding whether the amount it has paid in compensation 
is fair and reasonable.
Miss O is also unhappy that it was the garage, rather than Advantage who told her the car 
was being declared a total loss. Ive thought carefully about this. I appreciate Miss O found 
this distressing and I sympathise. But as the garage was in possession of the car and was 
acting as an agent of Advantage, I dont think it did anything wrong in contacting her to 
provide a meaningful update about her car.
Miss O has complained that Advantage contacted her finance company without her consent. 
She is also unhappy that it was late paying the finance company which resulted in an 
additional charge.
Miss Os policy document states:
If your claim is settled on a Total Loss basis and your Car belongs to someone else, 
or you've bought your Car by a hire purchase contract, your Insurer will pay any 
money owed to that person/company first and then pay any remaining money to you. 
If your Car is on lease or contract hire, your Insurer will pay the lease or contract hire 
company either the Market Value of the Car, or the amount required to settle the 
contract, whichever is less
Based on this, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Advantage to contact Miss Os 
finance company directly as it was required to pay a portion of the claim settlement directly 
to them.
In terms of the late payment, Advantage has explained that there was a 31-day delay 
between attempting to pay the finance company and the payment being received. 
Advantage says a cheque was sent on 23 September 2019  but that it wasnt received. A 
payment by BACS transfer was then attempted on 8 October 2019  but it wasnt received 
either. A further cheque was then issued on 9 October 2019, but it too wasnt received. So, 
another BACS transfer was made on 24 October 2019. This delay resulted in an additional 
amount of £33.46 being due. Its not clear whether Advantage or the finance company were at fault for the payment 
issues. But in any event, Advantage has covered the additional amount which became due 
as a result. This means Miss O hasnt suffered any financial detriment as a result of this 
delay.
That said, its clear that there have been some customer service issues throughout the claim 
which were caused by Advantage. And its clear that Miss O has suffered some distress and 
inconvenience, over and above what would usually be expected as a result of an insurance 
claim, because of the actions of Advantage.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss O has said about the impact of these issues. But 
taking into account everything that happened, I think the £75 paid by Advantage is enough to 
fairly compensate Miss O for the impact of the issues it caused. So, I wont be directing it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Miss Os complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already apologised and paid Miss O £75 
compensation to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already done enough to 
fairly resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman