DRN-1446195
The complaint
Mrs A says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs A took out in 2004. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card instore.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint for the following reasons.
I dont think AXA gave Mrs A clear enough information about the policy. I say this because it 
didnt clearly set out the cost and benefits of the policy. I think this would have mattered to 
Mrs A because she had at least six months sick pay through her work, so couldve kept up 
with her repayments for some time without the PPI if shed been off sick. 
I dont think Mrs A wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information about 
it. So, I think Mrs A has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments, including what it said about not believing Mrs A 
wouldve had the level of sick pay that she claims. But I still think I should uphold the 
complaint. AXA has provided no evidence that persuades me Mrs A didnt have at least six 
months sick pay through her work.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs A in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
AXA should find out how much Mrs A would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs A owes and what she would have 
owed.If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
If  when AXA works out what Mrs A would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs A paid 
more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Mrs A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs A wouldve owed 
AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
AXA should tell Mrs A what its done to work out the above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman