DRN-3079747
The complaint
Miss C complains that Eunisure Limited (hereafter Eunisure) mis-sold her income 
protection policy.
What happened
Miss C is self-employed. In 2011 she purchased an income protection policy through an 
advised sale with Eunisure, and after an injury in 2020 she made a claim on it.
The insurers of Miss Cs policy calculated how much monthly benefit shed be entitled to and 
explained this would be worked out on her self-employed profit. Miss C said the benefit 
worked out to be much less than shed expected it to be though, and complained about the 
way Eunisure had sold the policy to her. 
Miss C said Eunisure had sold the policy on the basis that shed receive a monthly benefit of 
£1000. She said shed expected this figure to have been based on her income, and Eunisure 
hadnt explained it would be based on her profit. Miss C said she wouldnt have taken the 
policy out had she known this, because her monthly premiums were around £37 and her 
benefit had only worked out to be around £80.
Eunisure said Miss C had raised her complaint too late and when she referred it to this 
service didnt consent to us looking into it. 
An ombudsman decided this service did have the jurisdiction to consider Miss Cs complaint, 
and so it was passed to an investigator to review. 
Our investigator didnt think Eunisure had taken Miss Cs individual circumstances into 
account when selling the policy, and they werent persuaded that it would have found the 
policy suitable for her needs and circumstances at the time had it done so. Our investigator 
didnt think the policy benefit was set out clearly enough in the available documentation 
either. So they upheld the complaint and recommended Eunisure paid compensation 
equivalent to a refund in Miss Cs premiums plus simple interest. 
Miss C agreed with those findings but Eunisure did not. In summary Eunisure said it couldnt 
provide any evidence from the time of the sale, but Miss C would have been provided with 
lots of information about the application and the policy following it, and she would have been 
given a cooling off period too. Eunisure also said that further information would have been 
made available to Miss C at each annual renewal, and she would have been invited to 
ensure it remained suitable for her on those occasions. 
Our investigator remained of the opinion that Eunisure hadnt fulfilled its obligations in view 
of the advised sale. And so, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Eunisure sold Miss Cs income protection in 2011 on an advised basis. So it needed to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her needs and circumstances at the time. 
Both sides have provided testimonies about what happened in this complaint. I understand 
that due to the passage of time limited contemporaneous evidence is available, but I have 
seen copies of some documentation relating to Miss Cs policy and her financial position 
around the time of the sale. 
One of those is a copy of the policy terms and conditions which explains the maximum 
monthly benefit available is £2,000, or 65% of gross monthly income, whichever is the lesser 
amount. It also explains that for the self-employed, gross monthly income means, the 
monthly average of your income for the 12 months immediately prior to the start date or the 
date you request a change in monthly benefit as declared on your self assessment return for 
the previous tax year as confirmed by HM Revenue & Customs.
I have also seen a copy of the key facts document which sets out that the monthly benefit 
available under the policy will be shown on the policy holders certificate of cover. And 
looking at a copy of the certificate of cover, I can see that Miss Cs total monthly benefit is 
recorded as £1000. 
Given the lack of contemporaneous evidence in this complaint I do not know how the 
available benefit was explained or presented to Miss C at the time of the sale. But having 
reviewed the above I dont think Miss Cs position of being under the impression she was 
eligible for a £1000 is implausible. 
I say this because the benefit calculations are explained in both the terms and conditions 
and key facts documents  but the key facts set out a policyholders available benefit will be 
shown on their certificate of cover, and on Miss Cs certificate that benefit is shown as 
£1000. 
Another document I have seen is a copy of Miss Cs tax return. This shows the profit from 
her self-employed income in the same year in which her policy was sold was £3,793. 
The policy Eunisure sold to Miss C was designed to replace lost income in the event of her 
becoming incapacitated and unable to work. And in view of the figures that would have been 
used to calculate the monthly benefit available, I think it reasonable to assume that Eunisure 
would (or at least should) have gathered information about Miss Cs financial position at the 
time. 
Had it done so, I think it would have seen how much profit Miss C was making from her self-
employed income. And consequently how little benefit shed be eligible for. Especially when 
taking into account the premiums required to fund the policy. So like our investigator, Im not 
persuaded Eunisure would have found this policy to have been suitable for Miss Cs 
circumstances and needs at the time.
I appreciate the lack of evidence Eunisure has about this sale and the commentary it has 
provided about what it thinks would have happened. But the difficultly I have is that Eunisure 
needed to make sure the policy it sold was suitable for Miss Cs circumstances and needs at 
the time, and aside from the testimonies provided the very limited evidence available does 
not support it having done this.I genuinely empathise with the difficulty Eunisure has had evidencing its position here, but 
Miss C has said she wouldnt have taken the policy out had she known how little benefit 
shed be eligible for. And for the reasons given above I dont think this is implausible. 
Putting things right
As I cannot fairly conclude the policy Eunisure sold was suitable for Miss Cs needs and 
circumstances at the time, I too am of the opinion that it needs to take the following action:
pay compensation equivalent to the premiums Miss C paid for the policy, adding 8% 
simple interest from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Eunisure Limited must put things right in the 
way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman