DRN-2877012
The complaint
Mr K complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy but didnt notify him. Mr K is represented in this matter by his solicitor. He 
wants £5,000 compensation for breach of contract and his solicitors fees reimbursed. 
What happened
Mr K was stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured. He was charged and his car was 
impounded. Five days later, Somerset Bridge confirmed indemnity was in place at the time. 
Two weeks later, the police dropped the charges. Somerset Bridge told Mr K that it had 
incorrect contact details for him. It said it would refund the impound fee on production of 
evidence that it had been paid. Mr K had already appointed a solicitor to help him deal with 
the issue. He wanted compensation and the solicitors fees covered. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Somerset Bridge had sent the insurers requests for validation documents, and then the 
cancellation warnings and confirmation to incorrect email and text addresses. He thought 
Somerset Bridge should put things right for Mr K by reimbursing the £250 impound fee and 
paying him £850 compensation for his trouble and upset. But he didnt think Somerset 
Bridge was responsible for Mr Ks legal costs. 
Somerset Bridge thought the level of compensation was out of keeping with other cases and 
was based on a sympathetic reading of a compelling story. Mr Ks representative replied that 
he didnt think the compensation was sufficient for the ordeal Mr K had suffered. He also 
thought Somerset Bridge should cover the legal costs. He asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Somerset Bridge agreed that its error had led to Mr Ks policy being cancelled as it hadnt 
updated his email address and contact number. So Mr K received its welcome letter and 
policy documents, but no further correspondence. Somerset Bridge apologised, reinstated 
Mr Ks policy after about three weeks and it offered to reimburse the impound fee on 
production of evidence that it had been paid. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Somerset Bridge accepts it has done here, we expect 
it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. In deciding the amount of redress we think a 
business should pay in compensation, we consider each case on its individual merits.
Somerset Bridge reinstated Mr Ks policy and it offered to reimburse the impound fee. I cant 
see any further direct losses that should be considered. But I think the error, and Somerset 
Bridges subsequent actions, had a significant impact on Mr K. And I think it should 
reasonably compensate him for this. 
Firstly, Mr K had the humiliation of being stopped by the police and charged for driving whilst 
uninsured. He had the threat of a £300 fine and 6 points on his clean licence. He had the 
worry of this for three weeks until the police dropped the charges. I think £250 compensation 
for being stopped and then £100 for the subsequent three weeks of worry is fair and 
reasonable as thats in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. 
Mr K was caused further embarrassment as his passenger witnessed the event. Mr Ks car 
was impounded. He was without any cash at the time and so he had to walk home in the 
dark. 
Mr K said he had health conditions and needed his car for transport. He said he had to take 
taxis as he was without his car. But, unfortunately, he has lost the relevant receipts. But I 
think the investigators recommendation of £150 compensation for this is fair and 
reasonable. I think this takes into account Mr Ks particular circumstances and the effect the 
loss of his car had on him. 
Mr K called Somerset Bridge the day after he was stopped by the police and he was told that 
the cancellation wouldnt be reversed, and his policy wouldnt be reinstated. Mr K called 
several more times to try and understand what had gone wrong and to get things put right. I 
think the trouble and upset this caused, and the subsequent worry and stress until he finally 
had the policy reinstated deserves compensation. I think £200 is fair and reasonable for this 
as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. 
Mr K was put to the trouble of appointing a solicitor to represent him as he had no 
knowledge of these issues. I think this was Mr Ks decision and Somerset Bridge isnt 
responsible for these costs. 
A new insurance proposal was provided after five days so that Mr K could get his car 
released from the impound. But Mr K had a wasted journey beforehand as Somerset Bridge 
hadnt warned him that he would need this to release his car. The reinstatement of the policy 
wasnt confirmed on the Motor Insurers Database for a further three weeks when the entry 
was made manually by Somerset Bridge. 
Mr K didnt have funds to pay the impound fee, and Somerset Bridge wouldnt forward this. 
So he had the embarrassment of having to ask a neighbour to lend him the money. And it 
took eight weeks for Somerset Bridge to send its response to Mr Ks complaint and offer to 
reimburse his impound fee. I think these matters caused Mr K further avoidable worry and I 
think Somerset Bridge should pay him £150 compensation for this.
So I think, in all, that the total of £850 compensation recommended by the investigator for 
the impact that Somerset Bridges error had on Mr K is fair and reasonable. I think this takes 
into account his embarrassment, his inconvenience, his stress and his worry. I also think that 
Somerset Bridge should reimburse the impound fee if it hasnt already done so.
Putting things right
I require Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr K £850 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. I also require it to reimburse 
Mr K £250 for the charge to release his car from the police impound.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman