DRN-2176265
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) poorly handled their 
buildings warranty claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased their new build home in 2014 which came with a NHBC
Buildmark 10-year warranty. They followed the necessary claims process under their 
warranty for defects associated with the property. In 2016 NHBC took over responsibility for 
the claim from the builder. Mr and Mrs B have been unhappy with NHBCs handling of the 
claim since.
A final decision was issued by this service on a previous complaint brought by Mr and Mrs B 
which addressed matters that took place between October 2017 and November 2018. 
Theyve since brought a new complaint regarding further issues that NHBC addressed in a 
final response letter (FRL) it issued in July 2019.
In summary, under this new complaint Mr and Mrs B said that NHBC had;
further delayed resolving issues at their home;
failed to resolve reported issues;
put the work out to tender to supply them with a cash settlement;
refused to pay for items damaged by their appointed contractors (Company A), and
caused delays and gave a poor service.
In its July 2019 FRL NHBC said that in line with the policy terms, it was looking to cash settle 
the claim and that once the tender process was complete an accurate cost of the schedule 
of works would be obtained, allowing it to formulate a fair cash settlement so 
Mr and Mrs B could appoint their own contractors to carry out any necessary remedial 
works.
It accepted thered been further delays in the resolution of Mr and Mrs Bs claim, some of 
which couldve been avoided by better claim handling on its part. It apologised for this and 
offered Mr and Mrs B a further £400 compensation (this was in addition to £600 
compensation itd offered for delays and poor service under a previous complaint it 
responded to a few months prior). But it said any issues with its appointed contractors would 
need to be raised directly with these parties.
Our investigator explained she could only consider events that took place between 
November 2018 and July 2019. She said the decision to cash settle the claim and the use of 
the tender process was fair and in line with the policy terms. And while she agreed thered 
been failings by NHBC in its overall handling of Mr and Mrs Bs claim, she acknowledged 
that complex claims, such as theirs, can take time to resolve. 
She thought the compensation NHBC had offered Mr and Mrs B fairly recognised the trouble 
and upset caused. And she was satisfied NHBC had agreed a fair way to move the claim 
forward. But she said if its established Company A caused loss or damage to 
Mr and Mrs Bs items/property then all of this should be rectified by NHBC. Mr and Mrs B 
asked that the case be considered by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within this complaint Ive considered matters NHBC responded to in its July 2019 FRL. This 
FRL addressed several complaint points Mr and Mrs B raised. But its my understanding that 
most of these points have now been resolved. So this decision will only address what I 
understand is still in dispute.
Compensation for delays and poor service
In summary, Mr and Mrs B complain the £400 compensation NHBC offered, doesnt fairly 
recognise the trouble and upset caused to them in this case because;
NHBC led them to believe the remedial works at their property would be resolved by 
the end of 2018  this never happened. 
They were then told the work had been put out to tender with an expected cash 
settlement to be arranged by the end of May 2019, again, this never happened. 
At the time of the July 2019 FRL, much of the remedial work due on their property 
was still outstanding and they had to spend time chasing up repairs they were told 
would be included in the schedule of works that werent. 
When they complained and asked to speak to a manager, they received no reply.
While NHBC caused delays to their complaint they had to live in a hotel without their 
personal possessions and standard items.
They had to have furniture in storage for a significant period because their house was 
unsafe and boarded up.
NHBCs constant delays and poor service caused their family depression, anxiety 
and stress.
Looking over this complaint, its clear to me theres been failings on NHBCs part in resolving 
the issues with Mr and Mrs Bs home in a reasonable timescale. While I agree with our 
investigator that cases of this nature can naturally take more time, its evident theres also 
been avoidable delays caused by NHBC during the period I can consider in this case. And 
this, alongside living away from their home, without their usual comforts, would 
understandably have taken its toll on Mr and Mrs B and their family. 
NHBC doesnt disagree its service and timeliness hasnt always been at an acceptable 
standard. And in response to many of the complaints Mr and Mrs B have made, its offered 
various levels of compensation in recognition of this. But Im considering the compensation 
offered in the July 2019 FRL  which addressed further delays since April 2019. NHBC 
explained that while itd hoped a cash settlement offer would be in place by that point, when 
it put the work out to tender, there was a lack of cooperation from the contractors which 
resulted in further delays. And as a result, it had to relaunch the process again.
This further delay was understandably disappointing  but arguably somewhat out with 
NHBCs control if the contractors werent cooperating. And I understand NHBCs point that 
the tender process was important so that it could ensure accurate costs for the remedial 
work were generated for the cash settlement, thus avoiding Mr and Mrs B being 
disadvantaged in any way. While I dont underestimate the impact NHBCs actions had on Mr and Mrs B and their 
family, I think the key resolution to this is that the remedial works at their property are 
completed and resolved to an acceptable standard. And as I understand it, Mr and Mrs B are 
no longer disputing NHBCs progress on this  which is positive to hear.
With all that in mind, I think the £400 compensation offered by NHBC fairly recognises the 
trouble and upset its further delays caused for the period in question. Its broadly in line with 
what I wouldve recommended if NHBC hadnt done so already, so I wont be directing it to 
increase this any further. 
Loss or damage of items
When Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service, they said Company A had 
caused loss and damage to their home and belongings  specifically, losing fittings to a 
window blind (which I understand has now been resolved) and damaging their front door. 
More recently theyve given more detail on this, saying Company A caused damage to items 
that were previously in storage and that they incurred disposal costs for these damaged 
items. 
NHBC initially responded to this part of the complaint by saying that any issues with loss or 
damage caused by Company A would need to be taken up with them directly. But I disagree. 
From what Ive seen, Company A were NHBCs appointed contractors and so NHBC should 
take responsibility for any loss or damage they may have caused in this case. 
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that NHBC should consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim for loss and 
damage to their items and property they say was caused by Company A. And on receipt of 
suitable evidence from Mr and Mrs B, if its demonstrated that Company A was most likely 
responsible this loss or damage, Id expect NHBC to rectify it or reimburse them for it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that National House-Building Council 
must:
Consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim for loss and damage to their items and property that 
they say was caused by Company A. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused in 
this case (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman