DRN-4265543
The complaint
Miss B and Mr H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund 
payments made from their account which they say they didnt authorise. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
here, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Miss B believes she fell victim to a bank impersonation scam. She called NatWest on 
2 August 2022 as her online banking access and card had been blocked. She says she then 
received a call from a number without caller ID, who told her they were from NatWest and 
that there had been fraud on her account. She says she had to provide them with 
information and they sent her a code. 
Following this, Mr H received notification that a direct debit indemnity claim had been raised 
in relation to a genuine direct debit he had authorised. Miss B and Mr H then discovered that 
two claims had been raised, relating to genuine direct debits, and so money had been 
refunded into their account. A series of payments had been made to a particular individual 
between 4-8 August 2022. Miss B says she received a number of texts from NatWest during 
this period containing codes  but she didnt share these with anyone. She and Mr H say 
they didnt submit the claims, nor did they make these payments. 
Miss B and Mr H raised a fraud claim  but NatWest didnt agree to refund them. They 
complained about this decision, and also said they hadnt received notification of the fraud 
claim. NatWest explained the claim outcome had been sent to the email address it had on 
file, and reiterated its decision. 
As they were unhappy with NatWests response, Miss B and Mr H referred the complaint to 
our service. An investigator reviewed what had happened. She came to the outcome that 
Miss B and Mr H were liable for the transactions, as she couldnt establish how the 
circumstances described would have allowed unauthorised payments to be made. 
Im now reviewing this complaint as Miss B and Mr H have appealed the investigators 
outcome. They say they didnt complete the direct debit indemnity claims and dont know the 
person who the funds were sent to. Miss B also said her normal phone was broken during 
this period so she couldnt check her online banking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, customers generally arent liable for 
payments they havent authorised. Miss B and Mr H say they didnt authorise these 
payments, but NatWest disputes this. So Ive considered whats more likely.
Its agreed that Miss B called NatWest on the morning of 2 August 2022. A new device had 
been detected using her mobile app, so NatWest had blocked her online banking and her 
card. Miss B called and explained she was using a different, temporary phone as she had 
broken her usual one. 
NatWest asked her if it had been her downloading the app at a specified time the previous 
evening, giving the make of the phone and the interned connection used. Miss B confirmed 
that was her. She provided a code sent during the call for verification and was told her 
access would be reinstated. 
Miss B says she then received a call from an unknown number  which shes provided a 
screenshot of  which she thought was from NatWest, but now thinks was a scam. However, 
on the balance of evidence, I dont think there is enough to show that accounts for the 
disputed payments. 
The audit information Ive seen suggests the device used to complete the disputed 
transactions was also used to make an undisputed payment to an existing payee. And the 
disputed payments didnt start until 4 August 2022  so two days after the proposed point of 
compromise. Which isnt what youd expect from fraud linked to an impersonation call. 
The direct debit claim also wasnt raised until 3 August 2022, so one day after the suspected 
scam call. After the first direct debit refund was received, a number of undisputed 
transactions were made, using the same device which was used to access the account on 
1 August 2022. 
There are further undisputed payments made during this period via mobile banking. Such as 
transfers to Mr H. And these occurred after some of the direct debit refunds had been paid  
which in fact seemed to have funded some of the payments, given the prior account 
balance. So its unclear to me how those could have occurred without Mr H or Miss B being 
aware. Or how they were expecting to fund their payments without the claim refunds. 
Miss B has sent us screenshots of a number of texts she received during this period, 
containing passcodes to access the account. But she says she didnt share these with 
anyone. And these came in the days after the call. So its unclear how an unauthorised 
person would have got access to the account, on a number of different days, as would have 
been needed to make the disputed payments. 
The IP addresses used to make some of the payments also matches IP address used to 
make other, undisputed payments on the same date. This isnt definitive information, but I do 
consider it relevant to determining what is more likely to have happened. 
In response to the view, Miss B also said she was unable to access her online banking when 
all the payments went out. But when raising her fraud claim, she confirmed to NatWest that 
she had authorised payments during this period. Which were payments to existing payees 
rather than the individual who the disputed payments went to. 
Miss B was told during the call with NatWest on 2 August 2022 that her access to online 
banking had been unblocked. And she explained she was using a temporary device to 
access her banking app. So this doesnt appear to match what she told NatWest at the time, 
or the audit information Ive seen showing the undisputed payments via mobile banking. I do appreciate there are some unknown factors about what happened here. Where 
information is incomplete or contradictory, I must decide whats more likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Here, I dont think I have a strong enough explanation for how an unauthorised person was 
able to make these claims and payments over several days. Especially as the payments 
occurred in between undisputed payments and account access, some of which came from 
the same device as undisputed activity, and seemingly from the same locations. 
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded its more likely than not that these payments 
were unauthorised. On that basis, Im not directing NatWest to refund Miss B and Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman