DRN-2412494
The complaint
Mr S complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) relates 
to their reporting of credit information which he feels is incorrect.
 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S contacted Tesco and made an arrangement (the plan) with them to pay 
£40 a month for the following six months, and that for that period the interest was to be free. 
Mr S made the payments for April, May and June, all of which he says were on time. He also 
made further payments for July, August and September, again all on time. Tesco however 
reported to the CRAs that in April, May and June his payments were late. Tesco have said 
that their CRA reports for those three months were correct because Mr S had been one 
month in arrears and it wasnt until July he cleared the arrears, which is why for that month 
and the following two there was no report of a late payment.
Mr S said this was unfair because when he called in March and set up the plan, he wasnt 
told that he was in arrears, nor that it could lead to a negative report to the CRAs. He said 
that if he had known that, he wouldnt have entered the plan. Tesco said they agreed to the 
plan because Mr S told them in March he couldnt meet his contractual minimum payment. 
And, if Mr S had said he could pay more than the monthly plan amount in order to avoid 
going into arrears, then they wouldnt have offered the plan at all. So, Tescos view was that 
they had only reported factual information to the CRAs and so didnt think they had done 
anything wrong.
Mr S was unhappy with Tescos final response and asked this service to see if we could 
assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator agreed with Tesco and thought they hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key to this complaint is what was agreed to during the March call when the plan was set 
up. Ive listened to that call and Mr S very clearly and carefully explained to the advisor that 
he was experiencing financial difficulties and the reasons why. He went on to say he was 
hoping to be able to pay about £30 - £40 per month for the next six months in order to get 
back on track. The advisor stated that Right now you are not in arrears and went on to 
explain that his next payment would be due on 10 April. She then said she would look at 
options and placed him on hold. Upon her return she suggested he would benefit from an 
Interest Free Plan for six months during which interest and charges would not be applied. Mr 
S agreed. She said that at the end of the six months he would be up to date and wouldnt 
have any arears or anything like that. She also said that the payment plan would appear on 
his credit file and warned Mr S that he would have to ensure he made all the payments 
during the six months otherwise interest and charges would be applied again. Nowhere 
during the call was Mr S advised that he was in arrears at that time nor that late payments 
would be recorded against him during the plan period. Mr S made enquiries about when the 
first payment was due, and he was told again it would be the 10 April. He asked if he could 
pay before then and was told he could. He was also told that statements would come out as 
normal but for the duration of the plan he could ignore them and just pay the £40.
It is this conversation where the agreement was reached. Tesco didnt tell Mr S that a report 
would be made to the CRAs for any late payments. He was specifically told he wasnt in 
arrears and in fact, all he was told was that it would be reported he was in a repayment plan. 
This is very significant because it is this which led Mr S to agree to the plan, and I am 
satisfied that had he been told otherwise he would most likely not have entered into the plan. 
Mr S had never previously had any late payment markers on his credit file, and I accept he 
was keen to avoid that and on the balance of probabilities I dont think he would have 
entered into the plan had he known.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 November 2020 and Tesco responded 
explaining that they disagreed and provided further explanation. I have considered those 
representations, but I am not inclined to change my view. I do understand the argument that 
is being advanced, that being that in order to bring his account up to date over the first three 
months of the plan it implies that Mr S was behind in his payments. That is true, but it does 
not get around the detail of the conversation Mr S had with the agent in March. The whole 
thrust of Mr S argument is that he was wanting to avoid the very action that Tesco ultimately 
took, which was why he was ringing. I believe him in that account. The advice and 
explanation Mr S received from the agent in March was unclear and I accept led Mr S to 
believe that only the payment plan would appear on his credit file.
Putting things right
So, I do think that Tesco have acted unfairly here, and I uphold this complaint. Tesco shall 
remove the missed payments/arrears markers for April, May and June and substitute a 
marker showing that Mr S was in a payment arrangement. In reaching a decision about 
compensation, I must take account of all the circumstances of the case and, in particular, the 
impact on the person bringing the complaint. I make an award of £250 by way of 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank shall remove 
the late payment markers from Mr S credit file for April, May and June and substitute a 
marker showing that he was in a payment arrangement. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank shall also pay Mr S compensation of £250 to settle this complaint. I 
think that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman