DRN-2006487
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) handled a claim made 
against her building warranty.
What happened
Ms S bought a property which came with a warranty provided by Amtrust. Soon after she 
moved in, she noticed several defects with the property. She initially raised concerns through 
its conciliation service, which gave the developer two months from 4 October 2018 to resolve 
the agreed defects. 
In January 2019, Amtrust sent a heating engineer to the property in response to Ms S letting 
it know that she had been without heating. Its unclear exactly what happened but there was 
an incident that led to the conciliation service being suspended. Ms S was then directed to 
follow the ADR route explained in the policy or take legal action against the developer. 
However, Amtrust now says the next step is for the case to be converted to a claim against 
the insurance aspect of the warranty. Ms S is unhappy with the way this matter was handled 
by Amtrust.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She thought that Amtrust should accept the 
agreed defects as a claim under the policy but that it was entitled to charge the applicable 
excess under the policy, regardless of any delays. But she did think there had been a delay 
and some confusion in Amtrust progressing the conciliation case to a claim, so she 
recommended that Amtrust pay Ms S £200 compensation for this. Amtrust accepted her 
recommendations but Ms S didnt accept, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In this decision, I am only considering whether Amtrust acted fairly in the time it took 
to convert the case with the conciliation service to a claim under the insurance part of 
her policy, not any actions it took as part of the conciliation service.
The terms of the policy say "if the Developer does not carry out the work within the 
time stipulated by the Conciliation Service the Underwriter will, at their option, 
arrange for the work specified in the surveyor's report to be carried out or meet the 
reasonable costs of carrying out the work".
As the work wasnt carried out by the developer within the time stipulated in the 
Conciliation report, Amtrust should now consider the agreed defects as a claim under 
the policy. Amtrust has now agreed to do this. 
In line with the terms of the policy, Amtrust can choose to settle the matter by 
completing the works or by meeting the reasonable costs of carrying out the work. 
And it is entitled to apply the relevant excess under the policy, even if that is 
significantly higher than Ms S would have paid under the conciliation service. The 
excess would have applied to the claim regardless of the incident or any delays and I 
see no reason to ask Amtrust to waive the applicable excess here.
Amtrust should have explained the process of converting the conciliation case to an 
insurance claim to Ms S much sooner than it did. And like the investigator, I think it 
should pay £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused through 
its failure to convert the conciliation case into a claim sooner than it did.
Putting things right
Amtrust should put things right by:
Considering the claim for the agreed defects under Ms Ss policy and settling this in 
line with the policy terms.
Paying Ms S a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman