DRN-1783752
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Miss J says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Miss J opened a store card account in a shop in 2000. At the same time, she took out a 
PPI policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Js card each 
month if shed made a successful claim for injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It also 
included purchase protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said that 
Miss J was working for under 16 hours per week when she took the policy out. And this 
meant she wouldn't have been able to claim on the main benefits of the policy. So he didn't 
think the PPI should have been sold to Miss J.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss J 
and to AXA on 26 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Miss Js application form for the store card. It includes a section 
headed Payment & Purchase Protection. Theres a brief description of the purpose 
of the cover. It then says Yes, I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase 
Protection Insurance. And it continues Please debit my Account with the relevant 
monthly premium until further notice. Miss J signed in the box specifically to indicate 
that she wished to take the cover, separately from where she signed the overall form.
 
Taking everything into account, I was satisfied that Miss J would have realised that 
the PPI wasn't compulsory. And I thought she decided to take the cover, knowing 
that she had a choice  although I could understand how she may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 Miss J told us she couldn't remember whether AXA gave her advice or 
recommended that she take out the PPI. AXA says it didn't provide any advice or 
recommendation. And based on what we know about the way these policies were 
sold, I thought that was likely to be right. This meant AXA didn't have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Miss J. But it did need to make sure it gave her enough 
information to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what 
alternative means shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was 
unable to work.
 
I acknowledged that Miss J told us she was working for less than 16 hours per week 
when she took out the policy. She said the same to AXA when she complained to it. 
AXA said, in summary, that it couldn't conclude that the policy had been unsuitable 
for Miss J based on the information it had. But if she could provide further information 
or evidence about her employment status when the policy was sold, it would 
investigate further. Its told us that Miss J didn't provide it with any further information 
or evidence to support what shed said.
 
Our adjudicator asked Miss J, both through her representatives and then directly, for 
more information about her circumstances when the policy was sold  including her 
job title, employers name, length of time with the employer and how many hours she 
was working each week. But Miss J didn't provide any further information. And 
without the further details we'd asked for, I wasnt satisfied that I had enough 
information and evidence that it would be fair for me to uphold the complaint due to 
Miss J's working hours, as the adjudicator did.
 
Miss J hadnt given us details of any sick pay or redundancy pay shed have been 
entitled to from her employer. Nor had she told us about any other means she may 
have had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was off sick, or if she 
lost her job.
 
If Miss J was working for at least 16 hours per week, she could have claimed on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment. And if her claim was successful, it 
would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it 
would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she returned 
to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid - 
whichever was the earliest. What was more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments she received from her employer, including any redundancy pay if she lost 
her job, allowing her to use those to cover other day-to-day expenses.
 
I acknowledged that it was possible the information AXA gave Miss J about the cost 
of the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would 
have been clear from the application form that there would be monthly premiums to 
pay for the cover. Id seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for 
Miss J. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it without any 
further cost if her situation changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the 
cover.
 
I also accepted that it was possible the information AXA gave Miss J about the PPI 
wasn't as clear as it should have been. But Id explained above that I was satisfied that Miss J chose to take out the PPI - so it looked as if she wanted this type of 
cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. And I hadnt seen enough 
evidence to make me think she'd have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didn't cover. So I wasnt convinced that better information about the PPI would 
have put Miss J off taking it out. And this meant that I didnt think shed lost out as a 
result of anything that AXA may have done wrong.
 
So based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint.
 
further submissions
Neither Miss J nor AXA has provided any comments on my provisional decision, and the 
time for doing so has now expired.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Js case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman