DRN-3390601
The complaint
Mr U has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled two claims against 
him from third parties under his motor insurance policy without properly investigating them 
and after hed said he was not involved. 
What happened
Admiral received a claim against Mr U in 2017 from a solicitor representing a third party. The 
solicitor said Mr Us car had gone into the back of the third partys vehicle. Admiral contacted 
Mr U and told him about the accident the third partys solicitor had alleged he was involved 
in. Mr U telephoned Admiral and said he wasnt involved. Admiral denied liability on behalf of 
Mr U and the claim was closed. In 2019 a new solicitor submitted two personal injury claims 
 one for the driver of the third party vehicle and one for the passenger. Admiral appointed a 
solicitor and the third parties solicitor issued proceedings. These were stayed by the court, 
but Admiral eventually agreed to settle the claims. This was on the basis that the third 
parties had provided Mr Us car registration number, the make and model of his car, his 
mobile phone number and his name. Admiral thought that, despite Mr Us assertion he was 
not involved, it wouldnt be able to successfully defend the claims.
Mr U complained, but Admiral wouldnt alter their stance. So Mr U complained to us. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and said that she thought Admiral hadnt 
investigated the third party claims properly. She suggested Admiral should obtain a legal 
opinion on the likelihood of defending the third party claims, as well as reinstating Mr Us no 
claim discount (NCD) and paying him compensation. The investigator corresponded with 
Admiral about this on several occasions and recently suggested more compensation. 
Admiral wouldnt agree to the investigators suggestion and maintained they were entitled to 
settle the third party claims.  
Because Admiral didnt agree with our investigator, I reviewed the complaint. I eventually 
explained why I agreed with the investigator that Admiral should have done more to 
investigate the third party claims, by pushing for details of the damage to the third party 
vehicle and images if these were available. I suggested if this evidence wasnt provided by 
the third parties solicitor, Admiral may have been able to successfully defend the claims. I 
felt the fact theyd not done this had prejudiced Mr Us position, as hed most likely paid more 
in premiums since losing his NCD. I also thought hed suffered some distress and 
inconvenience. I suggested Admiral pay him £300 to reflect this, mark the third party claims 
as bonus allowed (non-fault) and retrospectively reinstate Mr Us NCD. I then - slightly later  
suggested the compensation should be £500. 
Admiral have responded to say they will pay Mr U £300 in compensation and reinstate his 
NCD. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its quite hard to build a clear picture of the timeline for the handling of the claims against   
Mr U from Admirals file. This is because of the way the actions that have been taken have 
been recorded. However, I can see Mr U asked Admiral if they had images of the damage to 
the third party vehicle. Admiral said they did not and pointed out that not everyone involved 
in an accident takes photographs. But I think Admiral should have done more in this regard. 
If the third parties suffered significant injury and trauma, as suggested, then there was likely 
to be damage to the third party vehicle. And the third parties solicitor should have been able 
to provide evidence of this. But, as far as I can see, Admiral never pushed for this and simply 
decided to settle because they had medical evidence and because the third parties had 
provided a fair amount of detail on Mr U and his car. However, the third parties could have 
had this information for other reasons, bearing in mind the alleged accident took place near 
to where Mr U worked. So, I think that Admiral should have pushed for further evidence on 
the damage to the third party vehicle. 
I think if Admiral had done more to look into Mr Us point that he wasnt involved, such as 
insisting on images of the third party vehicle damage or other evidence of this, then they 
may have been able to successfully defend the claims in court. Although, I appreciate there 
was a risk Admiral could have incurred additional costs if they tried to do so and werent 
successful. Admiral did, of course, have the right to settle claims against Mr U as they felt 
appropriate under the terms of his policy. However, they also had a duty to treat him fairly as 
one of their customers. And I think this included properly investigating claims against him 
and defending them if they had a reasonable prospect of success. And, whilst I appreciate 
Admiral doesnt agree, I do think the lack of evidence of damage to the third party vehicle 
meant they did have a reasonable prospect of successfully defending the claims against Mr 
U. He will now never know what the outcome would have been if Admiral had tried to defend 
the claims, because they denied him the opportunity to find out. So, I think Mr U should get 
the benefit of the doubt and the claims should be treated as non-fault and he should be 
compensated for the fact that they were settled when really they should have been 
defended. 
Putting things right
In summary, I think Admiral should have done more to investigate and defend the claims 
against Mr U and that theyve most likely prejudiced his position as a result of not doing so. 
And caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Its difficult to quantify what Mr N 
has lost financially, but  on reflection - I think an overall compensation payment of £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr U experienced is fair and reasonable. I say this, as it is 
difficult to know for sure what the impact on his premiums has been, bearing in mind until the 
claims under his policy with Admiral had been successfully defended, they would have been 
marked as fault claims. And  bearing in mind - Mr U had an accident in July 2017 where his 
car was written off, which it seems would also have affected his NCD. 
I also think Admiral should mark the claims against Mr U as bonus allowed (non-fault) on 
their records and on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), which is a database 
insurers use for recording claims and underwriting information. Admiral should also 
retrospectively reinstate Mr Us NCD to the level it would have been with a non-fault claim at 
the point his policy with them expired and provide him with proof of this. This can be done by 
letter or email if needed.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Us complaint and order Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman