DRN-2807446
The complaint
Mr F complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA upheld a buyers dishonest claim for a 
refund, and failed to refund Mr F under its seller protection policy.
What happened
Mr F is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs F. He has an account with PayPal 
which he uses for their family business. In August 2019, Mr F undertook to provide physical 
and digital copies of photographs to a customer (who I will refer to as the buyer), and to set 
up a website for him. The buyer paid £4,000 with a debit card, and paid £4,500 via PayPal. 
The next day, the buyer raised a claim under PayPals buyer protection policy, on the ground 
that the goods and services provided were significantly not as described. Mr F disputed 
that claim, but PayPal upheld it and refunded the £4,500 to the buyer. After that dispute was 
closed, Mr F sought to have it re-opened in September, but this was also unsuccessful.
Mr F complained to PayPal, and after receiving no response, his wife brought this matter to 
our Service on his behalf. She argued that the buyers claim was dishonest, and that Mr F 
had done everything he had contracted to do. She said that the buyer had not raised a 
chargeback on the £4,000 card payment, which he would certainly have done if it was an 
honest claim. She provided evidence that the website had been set up and was being 
visited. She claimed that PayPal had not examined the evidence but had just upheld the 
buyers claim because thats what PayPal always does.
PayPal said that the evidence Mr F had originally provided in August had only been a copy 
of the contract between himself and the buyer, and this document was vague and did not 
clearly set out what Mr F had actually agreed to provide to the buyer. Nor had he provided 
proof of delivery of the photographs, or proof that he had set up the website. PayPal said it 
had asked Mr F for more evidence at the time, but he had not replied by the deadline, so it 
had closed the dispute in the buyers favour. It said Mr F did not qualify for protection under 
its seller protection policy.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that PayPal had been entitled to 
refund the buyer under its buyer protection policy. He thought that the seller protection policy 
did not apply, because of a clause in that policy which states that the policy does not cover a 
transaction if the buyer claims that the goods sold were significantly not as described. He 
also said that the seller protection policy did not apply for a second reason, namely that the 
photos provided were digital goods, and the policy does not apply to digital goods.
Mrs F did not accept that opinion. She pointed out that her husband had also supplied 
physical copies of the photos. She insisted that the buyers claim for a refund was fraudulent. 
She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr and Mrs F say that the buyer was abusing the buyer protection policy and 
did not bring his claim in good faith. However, my role in this complaint is to decide whether 
PayPal has followed that policy and, if it applies, the seller protection policy. And for reasons 
similar, but not identical, to those given by our investigator, I think that PayPal did follow the 
buyer protection policy, and that the seller protection policy did not apply.
The seller protection policy specifically states that it does not apply to items which the buyer 
claims are significantly not as described. I am therefore satisfied that the policy did not apply 
in this instance. I dont think it matters whether the photos were supplied only digitally, or 
physically as well, because the seller protection policy does cover intangible goods (subject 
to some additional requirements being met, which I need not go into here).
When the buyer raised a claim, PayPal asked Mr F to provide evidence in his defence. At 
first, Mr F provided the contract, but I have read it and I agree with PayPal that it is vague. It 
does not clearly set out the details of the goods and services to be provided to the buyer. 
Nor does it prove that anything was delivered, which is an essential condition which must be 
met to defend a claim. So I dont think it was unreasonable of PayPal to uphold the claim 
under the buyer protection policy in the first instance.
That was in August. In September, Mr F raised two appeals against PayPals decision. He 
has provided proof that he sent further evidence to PayPal, and this appears to have been 
the same evidence that Mrs F sent to us. That evidence is quite persuasive, and if PayPal 
had seen it then I think it is likely that it would have reversed its decision to refund the buyer, 
and returned Mr Fs money to him. Unfortunately, I can see that Mr F sent this evidence to 
webform@paypal.co.uk and PayPal says that this is an unmonitored email address. It 
therefore did not see this new evidence. PayPal has provided evidence that he emailed the 
same address in October. By the time this came to light, it was too late to reverse the 
outcome. I think that is a reasonable explanation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman