DRN-2599489
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) unreasonably 
refused to pay her partners claim under this breakdown repair policy. 
Ms A is represented by her partner Mr A so I shall just refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr A said he bought a new car on 7 March 2020 and informed AA of this on 9 March 2020. 
But when he made a claim in August 2020, AA said his car wasnt nominated on this policy 
and therefore it couldnt consider his claim. 
AA said there was no record of Mr A contacting it in March 2020. It also said if he could 
provide proof that he sold his old car it would consider his claim on a goodwill basis. AA said 
Mr A never provided this proof. So, it then wouldnt consider his claim.
Mr A felt aggrieved and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think AA had 
done anything wrong. Mr A disagreed so Ms As complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
As the investigator detailed, the policy clearly explains that only cars it knows about are 
capable of being insured for the breakdown repair benefit, as it says the following in the 
definitions section:
Nominated Vehicle: A car, van, motorhome or motorcycle, whose vehicle registration 
number is detailed on the letter accompanying Your policy booklet that is also eligible 
for breakdown assistance under Your AA membership but excluding caravans and 
other trailers, kit cars and any vehicles used to carry goods for reward including taxis 
and vehicles used for driving instruction and those used to carry goods for reward 
including haulage, the provision of courier services, or parcel delivery.
Further under the general exclusions the policy it says the following:
2. Repairs to vehicles that are not nominated for cover under this policy.
So, Im satisfied AA made it clear that only cars which are nominated are capable of being covered 
under this policy.
Whilst Mr A said he contacted AA to inform him of his new car on 9 March 2020 to inform it of his new 
car, AA cant find any evidence of that call. It also said when someone such as Mr A phoned in about 
a change of car, its system shows a footprint against the relevant policy number and there was 
nothing showing on Ms As policy number for that date or indeed for the whole of March 2020.
The investigator asked Mr A if he could forward his phone bill for March 2020 which would have 
shown he called the AA, but Mr A declined to do this. Without Mr A showing that he made such a call 
that means given AAs system, that there is no evidence that he called him as he said he did.
Further Ms As policy was due for renewal, so on 8 July 2020 AA sent out the documents inviting the 
renewal. Those documents show Mr As old car registration not his new one. Ms A or indeed Mr A had 
the opportunity then to correct this and put on the new car. Had they done so at this stage, then AA 
would have had the relevant details to consider his claim when he made it in August 2020. However, 
Mr A advised that Ms A didnt receive this. Since AA showed it sent this to Ms A, again theres nothing 
to show me that AA didnt post it, as it said.
AA, as gesture of goodwill said if Mr A showed that the ownership of his old car had been transferred 
to a new owner via the DVLA, it would then consider his claim. I consider this is reasonable. However, 
Mr A didnt want to provide this.
Mr A then wanted the investigator to listen to all his calls with AA over the years as a means of seeing 
how bad its service to him was. However, given this complaint merely concerns his complaint that AA 
cant consider his claim of August 2020, listening to these calls doesnt take this matter forward.
So, in conclusion, theres no evidence here to show that Mr As car was an appropriately nominated 
car under this policy. Therefore because of this I consider that AA did nothing wrong in refusing to 
consider Mr As claim.
My final decision
For these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman