DRN-3947803
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc
(NatWest) while he was trying to change bank notes in branch.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with any additional information they wanted me to take into account before I came 
to my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr S has a current account with NatWest and went into his normal branch to change some
old bank notes for new ones.
Mr S spoke to three separate members of staff about carrying out the exchange  he says
two of them started to process the transaction and declined to continue. And one member of
staff couldnt help because he said he didnt normally work at that branch.
Mr S says that while he was at the front desk with the three members of staff, one of the
branch staff told him that his son had been in the previous day to carry out the same
transaction. Mr S says that his son doesnt live near him and hadnt been in branch the
previous day. He says he felt the staff member made the association between him and the
other customer because of the colour of his skin.
Mr S is also unhappy that he was publicly provided with information about another customer.
He said even if it had been his son who had been in branch the previous day, NatWests
staff shouldnt have disclosed this information to him.
NatWest responded to Mr Ss complaint and upheld it in part. It said that its branch staff
needed to process the exchange of notes through Mr Ss bank account, so it didnt think the
staff members did anything wrong in declining to process the transaction  given that Mr S
didnt want the transfer to go through his account. However, it agreed that the service Mr S
had received in branch had been very poor and so offered to pay him £75 to apologise.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr S complained to this service. He told us that since
this incident, he has felt very anxious about going back to that branch  and he now travels
further to a different branch to carry out his banking activities.
To put things right, Mr S would like NatWest to pay him more compensation and stop
identifying customers and their relationships based on their race. He wants this service to
fine NatWest so that training and procedures are put in place. And he wants this complaint to
be made public to NatWests customers.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint, but they didnt uphold it. The Investigator
agreed that NatWest had made some failings in terms of the service it provided, however,
they felt that the £75 compensation already offered to Mr S was enough to put things right.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigators view. He said that the staff member who made the
association between him and another customer didnt know his name, or his sons name.
And so the presumption must have been made based solely on race. He adds that in any
event, none of this should have been disclosed in an open space in branch. Mr S reiterated
the intimidation he felt on that day, adding that he felt threatened, abused and insulted. He
said that he felt NatWest were making manoeuvres intended to be restrictive and defensive
of his request to change the old notes to new ones.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator, the case has been passed to me to decide
on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr S for providing the detail he has done in response to our Investigators
view. I have read and taken into account everything that both parties have submitted,
however, my findings will only address matters I consider central to the outcome of this
complaint. So, I wont address every point that has been raised. I trust this wont be taken as
a discourtesy, but this reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ill firstly start by addressing Mr Ss concerns relating to the transaction he tried to complete
in branch. I have seen NatWests internal procedures about changing notes. Where the
amount to be changed is more than £250, the transaction needs to be processed through
the customers account - so the old notes would need to be credited to the account, and the
new notes debited from the account. I can understand that it must be frustrating from Mr Ss
point of view that the information he was given in branch wasnt consistent. But based on
what Ive seen, I think NatWest followed its process here, and treated Mr S in the same way
it would any other customer in the same situation.
Ill now turn to the remarks made by a member of staff in branch. But before I do that, Id like
to make Mr S aware that this service is unable to make findings about whether discrimination
has taken place as per the Equality Act 2010, as this is a matter of law and only the courts
have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to
what Mr S has said when deciding whether I think NatWest has acted in a fair and
reasonable manner. This involves taking a number of different things into consideration,
including the provisions of The Equality Act 2010.
NatWest has already accepted that it didnt provide Mr S with a good level of service when
he went into branch to change the notes. So, its now for me to decide if the £75 
compensation it has already offered Mr S for this is sufficient. And based on what Ive seen
so far, I dont think it is.
Mr S believes the only reason the member of staff made the presumption that another
customer was his son, is because of the colour of his skin. I have seen testimony from the
staff member that states Mr S was asked if his son had come in the previous day because
the transaction being completed was similar to the transaction Mr S was attempting and the
other customer shared the same name as Mr S. The staff member added that Mr S is a
regular customer at the bank and known by several members of staff.
While it might not have been the intention of NatWests staff to offend Mr S, I can understand
from Mr Ss point of view why he has been made to feel upset by what happened. Mr S saysthis information was asked of him while he was confronted by three members of staff in
branch  and not in a private place. And I dont find that it was necessary or relevant of
NatWest to know the answer to this question in order to help Mr S with the transaction.
I have also noted Mr Ss concerns in relation to information he was given about another
customer who had come in to do a similar transaction on the previous day. While I can
understand why Mr S would find this concerning, this information didnt relate to him, and so
I dont find that he has been personally impacted by this. In any event, based on what Mr S
has told us, the only information he was given about this person was that they were in
branch the previous day, and that they carried out a similar transaction.
When considering the impact on this case, I think Mr Ss distress was exacerbated by a
reasonably held belief that NatWest made an assumption based on his race. So, I do think
NatWest needs to do more to put things right for Mr S. NatWest has agreed that its service
was, in its own words very poor. And as a result of this service, Mr S has been left feeling
anxious and no longer comfortable going to the branch where NatWest has confirmed he
was a regular customer. Because of this, he now travels much further to a different branch.
Im minded asking NatWest to increase its compensation to £300.
NatWest responded to say it had no further comments, and it agreed to the increase in 
compensation.
Mr S responded with some comments he wanted me to consider. I have summarised the 
main points below:
Mr S reiterated that he found the comment from the staff member disturbing. He 
said this could have created a misunderstanding between him and his son. 
NatWest breached data protection laws by disclosing someone elses personal 
information to him.
Mr S felt that what happened in branch was insulting and shameful as attention was 
drawn to him and gave the impression that he was carrying out a dubious or 
suspicious activity.
The first member of staff he spoke to should have given him the correct information 
regarding the process to change old bank notes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me again, I will still be upholding Mr Ss 
complaint, for the same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision.
I have taken into account Mr Ss comments, however, I still feel the £300 award is a fair way 
to settle things in this case. Much of what Mr S has said in response to the provisional 
decision is a reiteration of points he had made previously  and all points I thought about 
when coming to my provisional decision.
I know Mr S feels very strongly about what happened in branch that day. And I think this is 
understandable. In reaching this decision, I dont want to in anyway downplay or disregard 
what happened to Mr S, or how he felt about the matter. But being independent means, I 
have to look at all the evidence available to me  and take a step back to decide on a fair 
and reasonable resolution. And for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional 
decision, I think an increase in award to £300 is fair in this case.Putting things right
NatWest should put things right by paying Mr S £300 for the distress its actions caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I order National 
Westminster Bank Plc to put things right for Mr S by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman