DRN-3991713
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont allow him access to a dormant current account.
What happened
Mr N lives abroad, but he holds a Lloyds current account in the United Kingdom which he 
wants to close. The account has been dormant for some time, since around 2011. In 
March 2022, Mr N attempted to regain access to it, but he was unable to do so. 
Mr N complained to Lloyds and the bank sent him its final response in May 2022. In it, 
Lloyds provided some guidance that it uses to assist consumers in Mr Ns position. 
Essentially, Lloyds explained that it needed to verify Mr Ns identity before it could remove 
the dormancy marker that had been applied to his account. Until his identity had been 
verified, and the dormancy marker removed, Mr N wouldnt be able to access the current 
account.
To do that, given he wasnt residing in the UK, Mr N would need to send Lloyds certified 
copies of his identification documents by post. 
Mr N says he did post copies of his documents to Lloyds but, some time later, the bank had 
told him that it didnt receive them. So, consequently, Mr N remains without access to this 
dormant account. 
Separately, Mr N was also sent some one-time passcodes by Lloyds. Hed requested these 
via Lloyds banking app in an attempt to gain access to his account online, but this was also 
unsuccessful. Mr N was frustrated that Lloyds didnt send these passcodes by air mail 
because, generally by the time they arrived, theyd expired. 
In September 2022, Mr N contacted our service for an independent review. An investigator 
here looked at what had happened and, overall, he didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. In summary, he said that because Mr Ns documents hadnt been received by Lloyds 
it wasnt unreasonable of the bank to keep the dormancy marker in place. Accordingly, given 
Mr Ns identity hadnt yet been verified, Lloyds hadnt made a mistake in not allowing him 
access to the account or in not following his instruction to close it. 
Mr N disagreed and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill say here, at the outset, that I can understand Mr Ns frustration at the matter. At its heart, 
this is a fairly straightforward request. 
That said, while I know Mr N will be disappointed that I say this, I dont think theres anything 
inherently unfair or unreasonable in Lloyds actions in the circumstances.
 
Ultimately, Lloyds has a duty to mitigate any security risks. So, if the bank requires 
Mr N to verify his identity before it removes the dormancy marker applied to his current 
account, I dont think thats unreasonable. The process by which Lloyds achieves that aim is 
for it to set itself, and our service has no power to tell a financial business how to operate or 
to change its processes or procedures. 
General practice in situations like this would usually require Mr N to visit a branch; hed then 
be able to provide the necessary documentation for the dormancy marker to be removed. 
Here, though, because Mr N resides abroad, the process is slightly different  and Lloyds 
procedure requires him to submit certified copies of his identity documents by post.
Im aware that Mr N says hes already done this, and I dont doubt that he has. 
Unfortunately, though, the bank has no record of receiving what Mr N sent  and as 
frustrating as that is, it doesnt alter the fact that Mr Ns identity hasnt been verified. So, in 
line with its obligations to mitigate risk and its internal process, given it hasnt verified Mr N, 
the bank hasnt removed the dormancy marker or followed his instruction to close the 
account. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
I know Mr N is also unhappy with Lloyds process for one-time passcodes, with these often 
arriving after theyve expired. I agree thats entirely unhelpful but, in any event, I asked 
Lloyds whether  if Mr N did receive a passcode on time  it wouldve made any difference 
to the current position. For example, by allowing him access to the account online.
In short, it wouldnt. Lloyds has confirmed that, in order for any access to be granted, 
Mr N needs to submit the necessary documentation so that his identity can be verified. So, 
overall, Im satisfied the delay in receiving a passcode  whilst no doubt frustrating for Mr N 
 hasnt made any material difference here. 
With all of that in mind, the way to progress things, in my view, is for Mr N to resubmit the 
documents that he says he previously sent to Lloyds so the dormancy marker can be 
removed. 
I cant fairly say, though, that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Instead, I find that 
its followed its process for dormant accounts  which its entitled to set  and treated Mr N 
just as it would any other customer in this position. So, it follows that I dont require it to take 
any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman