DRN-3635097
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc withdrew his mortgage offer without notice. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I 
wont repeat them again here in detail. Instead Ill summarise the main facts that I consider 
to be material to the outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In 2019 Mr C made several applications for further borrowing on his existing mortgage with 
HSBC. Those offers lapsed.
In July 2020 Mr C reapplied for the further borrowing to fund renovation work on his property. 
An application was submitted online. He was issued a mortgage illustration based on an 
interest rate of 1.74% fixed for five years. 
The underwriting notes suggest that following the submission of documentary evidence from 
Mr C, more information was required. This wasnt provided and the application was 
withdrawn on 21 August 2020 due to lack of contact. 
Mr C says a series of events caused him to believe the mortgage application had been 
accepted. Mr C says he received no contact from HSBC to say it required outstanding 
information or that the mortgage application was being withdrawn. In addition, he says 
HSBC granted him approval for the completion of the structural renovations in September 
2020. And upon request, Mr Cs solicitor was sent a mortgage offer, albeit an incorrect one 
dated 29 August 2019. This was for the same amount of borrowing (£150,000) on a rate of 
1.64% fixed for two years.
Mr C called HSBC in November 2020 to enquire about being offered the new lower rate. He 
was told at that time that his recent mortgage illustration dated July 2020 had expired due to 
lack of contact and that he needed to reapply. Mr C did not have a current mortgage offer 
from HSBC as the one incorrectly provided to his solicitor had also previously expired. 
The new five-year rate he applied for in November 2020 was 1.99%. Mr C complained to 
HSBC about the previous (lower interest rate) deal expiring without sufficient notice. The 
complaint was upheld in part. HSBC accepted it sent incorrect documents to Mr Cs solicitor 
and offered £150 compensation to apologise. It didnt accept that it made an error when 
processing the July 2020 mortgage application, so it didnt agree to honour the lower rate. 
Mr C didnt accept the response so brought his complaint to our service. During our 
investigation, HSBC agreed to increase its compensation offer to £300. Our investigator 
looked into things and explained why she thought that offer was fair and why HSBC wasnt 
required to do anything more in the circumstances. Mr C didnt agree and asked for the case 
to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the submissions from both parties. Ive summarised events here 
in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by that - this just echoes the informal service 
we were set up to provide. If Ive not mentioned something, its not because Ive ignored it, 
its because I dont think its material to the outcome of the complaint.
When Mr C applied for further borrowing in 2019, he was issued with several mortgage 
offers. A mortgage offer is only issued after a lender has conducted a full affordability 
assessment, property valuation and underwriting checks. As was the case here. Mr C 
didnt progress with the further borrowing at this time. These offers lapsed.
In 2020, due to waiting times for mortgage advisor appointments (post nationwide 
lockdown on 23 March 2020), Mr C was given the option of reapplying online using an 
execution only service. This means without involvement or advice from HSBC.
Mr C agreed and says he was led to believe his application would be accepted on the 
same terms as before. Ive not been provided with call recordings from around that time, 
but in any event, Im not persuaded HSBC would guarantee the outcome of a mortgage 
application at enquiry stage, or that Mr C didnt know the steps involved in a mortgage 
application. Having only applied less than a year ago.
When Mr C started his application online in June 2020, he was issued with a mortgage 
illustration which simply summarised the details of the required loan prior to the 
application being considered. Its made clear at the top of the illustration that this 
document does not constitute an obligation for HSBC Bank Plc to grant you a loan. 
Lending is only guaranteed once a mortgage offer is issued  which wasnt the case 
here. Mr C says a series of events led him to believe otherwise. Ill consider each of 
these in turn.
Insufficient contact from HSBC to let him know it required outstanding information. 
HSBC has to a degree accepted that alternative methods of communication could have 
been used to try and reach Mr C, but says it was ultimately Mr Cs responsibility to 
check the progress of his application online.
When Mr C submitted his mortgage application, he received an email the same day 
confirming next steps. HSBC said it would be in touch once it had reached its decision. 
It also explained how Mr C could continue to track the progress of his application online.
Whilst in hindsight HSBC could have perhaps tried alternative ways to reach Mr C, the 
details relating to his application were accessible to him online. I think Mr C ought to 
have proactively followed up on his application, in the absence of an official lending 
decision or mortgage offer being issued. Especially before incurring any renovation 
costs. As such, I cant fairly hold HSBC entirely at fault here. In my opinion there was a 
lack of communication on both parts.
Confirmation from HSBC in September 2020 to say it had no objections with the 
proposed renovation workIn my opinion, this has little bearing on the progress of the application. When Mr C 
called to make the enquiry, he asked if the proposed plan had any impact on the 
mortgage he already held. There was no mention of his further borrowing application 
and the response provided to him was again on general terms. So, Im not persuaded 
this confirmation implied that Mr Cs further borrowing application had been approved. 
An offer was issued to his solicitor upon request albeit the wrong one from 2019. 
It appears this offer was received by Mr Cs solicitor around October/November time. 
Which based on what Mr Cs said appears to be after renovation work had commenced 
already. So, I cant fairly say reliance on this document led to Mr C commencing works. 
In any event, given the importance of a mortgage offer document in the application 
process, I think Mr C and his solicitor wouldve read this and seen that an expired offer 
has been issued in error before placing any reliance on it. 
HSBC has, to an extent accepted, that it could have provided a better service to Mr C 
and it has offered £300 compensation to acknowledge that. But when considering all of 
the above, Ive not seen enough to suggest Mr C was mis-led into thinking his 
application had been approved. As such I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for any 
loss suffered by Mr C when proceeding with the renovation work in the absence of a 
mortgage offer. Mr C says he sold an oversees property at a reduced price for a quick 
sale to fund the renovation work himself. For the reasons Ive explained I cant 
reasonably hold HSBC responsible for any potential loss suffered.  
Its also worth mentioning that its unlikely this application would have been accepted in 
any event. I say this because when Mr C resubmitted his application in November 2020, 
at valuation stage, HSBC requested an External Wall System (EWS1) certificate as 
recommended by its surveyor. Mr C says his building management company hadnt 
carried out the assessment yet, so he was unable to provide this. As such, he didnt 
proceed with the application. 
If the July 2020 application had reached valuation stage, its likely the same would be 
required and as such lending would likely be refused in any event. Mr C questions why 
this wasnt requested during the 2019 valuations. I can confirm this form only came into 
use around December 2019. So, at the time the earlier offers were issued, this wasnt a 
requirement. 
Putting things right
So, when considering everything Ive not seen enough to fairly say Mr C was mis-led into 
thinking his mortgage application in June 2020 had been accepted and an offer made. It 
appears Mr C assumed that to be the case which led him to start the renovation work on his 
property. HSBC has offered £300 compensation to acknowledge its communication failings 
which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In any event Ive explained why 
better communication from HSBC would have made little difference to the outcome of Mr Cs 
application. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr C 
£300 compensation, if it hasnt already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman