DRN-4224077
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions Limited overvalued his property allowing it to lend 
him more via a lifetime mortgage than it otherwise would have.
What happened
Mr S is represented in his complaint by Mr W  his son-in-law. But, for simplicity, Ill refer, 
throughout my decision, to Mr S as if all statements made by the complainant have come 
directly from him.
Mr S and the late Mrs S took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva, via a broker, in 2009. Mr S 
says hes received a copy of the lenders version of the valuation report. And he says that 
version contains an additional page with fabricated house sales which were used to reach a 
valuation on his own property. Mr S also says the sale of the product happened just after the 
financial crash so property values, including his, were falling at that time. Mr S complained to 
Aviva.
In its final response letter dated 27 February 2023, Aviva said it is unable to comment on the 
accuracy of the property value at the time due to the amount of time that has elapsed since 
then. It also said that if Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the valuation, they could have 
challenged it at the time and they were under no obligation at that time to continue with their 
application for the lifetime mortgage. Aviva also said that the lifetime mortgage also has a no 
negative equity guarantee, which means, should the expected sale price be less than the 
amount owed, Aviva would not seek to recover the difference.
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mr S asked us to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She said she thought it was reasonable for 
Aviva to rely on the information provided by the valuer with regard to the valuation of the 
property. Mr S didnt agree. He said he thinks Aviva had a duty to make sure all documents it 
relied on were correct and in order and as Aviva didnt do that, it lent incorrectly. He said its 
irrelevant whether Aviva knew that or not.
As Mr S didnt agree with our investigator his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint, Ive thought about whether the evidence available indicates Aviva 
overvalued Mr and Mrs Ss property at the time it sold them their lifetime mortgage.
Mr S says the house was hugely overvalued and the valuation was based on fabricated 
house sales noted on the valuation report from the time of the lifetime mortgage sale. And he 
says the valuation was based on property prices before the financial crash.
Ive considered the copy of the valuation report provided to us  the lenders copy. Firstly, 
Ive noted that the valuation states that the demand and value of similar properties was 
falling. Ive also noted that the valuer thought the property was worth less than that believed 
by Mr S at the time. And Ive seen the page Mr S refers to about comparable properties.
On page five of the valuation report is confirmation of the surveyors details. I can see from 
those details that the surveyor worked for a company of surveyors and that they were a 
member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Im satisfied from those details 
that the surveyor wasnt an employee of Aviva. I havent seen evidence that the surveyor 
was asked to value the property at a specific level. The only indication of what valuation may 
have been expected was the indication of the value given by Mr and Mrs S. The surveyor 
chose to value the property lower than that figure. So, I havent seen any indication that he 
inflated the value so that Aviva could lend Mr and Mrs S more than it should have done.
In any event, the surveying of property is not an activity covered by us. And the actions of 
the surveyor would not be considered in a complaint about the lender. The surveyor in this 
instance was independent of Aviva and is a member of RICS. So, any complaint about the 
actions of the surveyor would need to be addressed to RICS.
Its usual for a lender to appoint a surveyor to provide a valuation on a property that is to be 
used as security for a proposed loan. In this case, Aviva appointed a surveyor  likely to be 
the company rather than the individual  and the company instructed an employee who was 
a member of RICS, indicating they were qualified to carry out such work. Irrespective of the 
actual accuracy of the valuation  a matter Im not qualified or have the power to decide  I 
think Aviva were entitled to rely on the valuation provided by the surveyor, given that they 
were independent and qualified.
More broadly, I would comment that I think its unlikely that a lender would seek to inflate the 
value of a property so that it could increase the amount of a loan. The property is the 
security for the lender against the chance the repayment obligations are not met. A lender 
has a set amount of risk it is prepared to take at any given time. The limits it sets with regard 
to the amount it is prepared to lend against the value of a specific property is a reflection of 
that appetite for risk for individual lending. So, it isnt in a lenders interest to inflate the 
value of a property, especially in this case because of the mortgages no negative equity 
guarantee. I say that because, where a propertys value is inflated, its more likely that the 
amount owed will reach a point that it is greater than the value of the property, and that point 
will be reached sooner. That means the lender would stand a greater chance of not being 
able to collect all the money that would otherwise be owed when the mortgage is redeemed.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence that indicates Aviva inflated the value of Mr and Mrs Ss 
property. And we dont have the power to consider the actions of the surveyor. So, I dont 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman