DRN-3570558
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) 
has managed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 2008 on an interest only basis over a 11-year term. 
The mortgage was for £475,000 plus fees. There were a number of changes to the interest 
rate applied to the mortgage over the years.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs K applied to extend the term of the mortgage, but Halifax declined the 
application. It said it wouldnt extend the mortgage because Mr and Mrs K had built and were 
letting an annex to the mortgaged property without Halifaxs consent. Halifax said that was a 
breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs K applied to extend the term of the mortgage again in July 2019. Halifax 
declined that application too. It said it had considered the mortgage account for interest only 
and retirement interest only options, but it couldnt go ahead with those options as its stress 
tests (used to consider) affordability had failed.
After this Mr and Mrs K proposed splitting the title to the mortgaged property so the annex 
could be sold separately. Halifax agreed to that in principle subject to conditions. 
Mr and Mrs K then started a long process split the title to the property. That involved 
surveyors, the local authority planning department, solicitors, contactors, and brokers (to get 
the finance in place). By October 2020 Mr and Mrs K had decided that they wanted to split 
the title and re-mortgage both properties. The annex would be a buy-to-let mortgage and the 
main property a retirement interest only mortgage.
On 30 September 2019, Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage term ended, and the full balance was due 
to be repaid. Halifax agreed to numerous short-term extensions to the mortgage while the 
work to split the title to the property continued.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs K started underpaying their monthly mortgage payments. 
Mr K said that was as a result of all the money he was spending to split the title to the 
property. Halifax told Mr K that as he and Mrs K had previously made overpayments to their 
mortgage, the overpayments would be used to cover any underpayments. So underpaying 
for three months wouldnt result in arrears. In March 2020 Halifax agreed to a three-month 
Covid payment deferral as Mr K had said that his ability to work had been impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mortgage payments resumed after that. Halifax told Mr K that if he and 
Mrs K underpaid for another three months, there would be arrears on the mortgage account. 
Halifax says Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage went into arears in November 2020, and the arrears 
werent paid off until July 2021. It started reporting adverse information on Mr and Mrs Ks 
credit files about the arrears in January 2021.
Mr and Mrs K complain that Halifax:
was responsible for delays splitting the title deeds of his property. Mr K says this 
caused his mortgage arrears to be more than they should be.
didnt help them and passed them round different departments.
didnt support them.
applied adverse information to their credit files. This has stopped them from being 
able to re-mortgage with other lenders.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Halifax had made a mistake in the 
way it had acted around the time Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage came to an end. He thought 
Halifax considered their applications to extend the term of their mortgage as it should. Nor 
did he think Halifax were solely responsible for the delays Mr and Mrs K experienced when 
they tried to split the title to the mortgaged property. He said the process to split the title to 
the mortgaged property was complicated and involved many parties. However he could see 
that Halifax had accepted it had made some mistakes and offered them £250 by way on an 
apology. Our investigator thought that £250 compensation was a fair and reasonable 
amount.
Our investigator also thought that the information Halifax had recorded on Mr and Mrs Ks 
credit files was correct, and they had been warned that arrears could be recorded. So he 
didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for us to require Halifax to remove that 
information.
Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. After our investigator sent them his 
view Mr K said that he thinks Halifax acted fairly and properly towards them between 2018 
and early 2021. However hes unhappy with what Halifax did after that.
For completeness I will say here that I can see that Mr and Mrs K have also complained 
about the interest rates that were applied to their mortgage account. That issue is being 
considered separately by Halifax, and by us in a separate complaint. So I will not consider 
that issue in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as out investigator. Ill explain why.
Splitting title to the property
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about the time it took to split the title to the 
mortgaged property. They feel that Halifax is responsible for those delays and that the 
delays caused the mortgage arrears to be more than they should be.
My starting point on this issue is to say that Halifax wasnt obliged to agree to split the title to 
the mortgage property if it didnt want to. It needed to consider any applications Mr K made 
fairly and reasonably. However, it was allowed to use its commercial judgement to ensure 
that the security it had taken over Mr Ks property wasnt compromised. 
Mr K didnt formally ask Halifax to split the title to the property until December 2020 although 
it had been proposed before that. By that time Mr Ks mortgage account was already in arrears. Before the title could be split there were issues about access to the property that 
needed addressing. That meant that further valuations were needed by Halifax. Access to 
the main property and the annex was shared. So Halifax was concerned that might cause 
issues if one or both properties were ever repossessed. I think that Halifax was entitled to 
ensure that these issues were resolved before it agreed to split the title. Halifaxs notes on 
the mortgage account show me that Halifax was in regular contact with Mr Ks solicitors and 
required information from them for that issue to be resolved.
Halifax agreed to split the title to the property but required certain conditions to be met. Ive 
considered the conditions and I dont think they were unreasonable given the security Halifax 
held over the land. 
Mr K has been clear about the frustration he felt about the time it took for those issues to be 
resolved, and the impact of the time it took on his and Mrs Ks finances. A third-party lender 
agreed (in principle) to give Mr and Mrs K a buy to let (BTL) mortgage for the annex in 
December 2020. Mr K says he intended to use that money to repay some of his Halifax 
mortgage. But Halifax had to release the security it held for that part of the property before 
that mortgage could be completed.
Mr K says that in order to facilitate this he had to instruct solicitors to deal with different 
teams at Halifax. Hes frustrated that those teams didnt work well together. He says he felt 
like he was going round in circles between October 2020 (before he formally asked Halifax 
to split the title as he was working with third parties) and March 2021. He couldnt raise the 
money or progress work to split the title and re-mortgage until Halifaxs security was 
released. However, Halifax wouldnt release its security until the money was available. 
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration about this. Ive listened to relevant phone calls and I accept 
this was a very real issue for him. But I understand why Halifax acted to try to minimise the 
risk of losing the security it had taken over Mr and Mrs Ks property. A solution was agreed in 
March 2021 and I can see that title to Mr and Mrs K property was split around May 2021. 
Halifax has accepted responsibility for some mistakes (eg. communication delays and when 
its end of term team gave Mr K incorrect information about another department). It has 
apologised and offered £250 compensation. I appreciate that Mr K doesnt think thats 
enough compensation. However, I can see that Halifax often had to wait for responses from 
third parties between January and May 2021. So I dont think its fair to say that it was 
responsible for all of the delays. I think the £250 compensation offered is a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect Halifaxs mistakes in this period (including the delays it was 
responsible for). 
I think its worth saying here that my awards arent intended to punish Halifax for what 
happened. As I said above, the process to split the title to the mortgaged property was 
complicated and involved many parties. So I can understand why Halifax involved a number 
of its specialist departments. The process also took place during the covid-19 pandemic 
(which affected all parties ability to act on business as usual terms). So Ive taken that into 
consideration too.
credit file issues
Mr K accepts that he and Mrs K received letters from Halifax to say that they needed to clear 
the arears on the account that built up from November 2020. However, he says that when he 
asked about those letters on a phone he was told not to worry as the letters were generic. 
He says he was told his account was on hold, so no action would be taken. 
Ive looked at the relevant letters. Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs K in February 2021 to say that they were in arrears and that the arrears needed to be paid. The letter included a table that 
set out how the arrears had built up. However, it didnt say that Halifax had started to report 
adverse information about the arrears on Mr and Mrs Ks credit file from January 2021 or 
that their payment arrangement had come to an end. I think thats important because having 
listened to a phone call that Mr K had with Halifaxs end of term team at the beginning of 
March 2020, I dont think Mr K realised that Halifax had started to report the arrears on his 
and Mrs Ks credit files. The adviser told Mr K that no action would be taken as his account 
was on hold. That was correct in the sense that Halifax wasnt taking any action to try to 
require Mr and Mrs K to repay their mortgage debt now that the mortgage term had expired. 
I dont think the adviser (who was part of the end of term team, not the collections team) 
meant that no arrears would be reported on their credit files as it appears Mr K thought he 
did.
On the relevant phone call Mr K told the Halifax adviser that hed previously agreed to an 
arrangement to pay £700. Mr K said that was all he could afford to pay at that time. He said 
that as Halifax hadnt said that payment arrangement had come to an end, he would 
continue to pay £700 each month instead of the contractual monthly payment. 
Halifax has told the Financial Ombudsman Service it made Mr K aware that the credit file 
may be impacted by the arrears during the relevant phone call. It did, but I also think the 
adviser could have done more for Mr K on that call. The adviser told Mr K that if he thought 
he was within his arrangement he should be fine. I think that if the adviser had checked 
with the collections team (or told Mr K that he needed to do this himself) Mr K would have 
known where he stood.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr K would have cleared the arrears in February/March 
2021 if Halifax had been clear that the arrears was being reported on his credit file by then. I 
say that because I can see that Halifax sent Mr and Mrs K three further letters about the 
arrears in April 2021. Each of those letters contained the following wording:
Your credit file may be impacted
It's important that you understand that if your account is in arrears, your credit file will be 
updated to show this [my emphasis]. It's normal for us to notify the credit reference 
agencies in this way. This may affect your ability to borrow money in the future, not just with 
us, but also with other banks, building societies, mobile phone operators and other credit 
providers.
Despite receiving these letters, Mr K didnt clear the arrears until July 2021  around three 
months after the April 2021 letters were sent.
Mr K has said that if Halifax had been clear about the consequences of the arrears sooner, 
he would have been quicker to borrow money from family to clear the arrears. I appreciate 
his strength of feeling about this. However, it took him around three months to raise the 
money to clear the arrears after he got the April 2021 letters, so I dont think its fair to say 
that Mr K would have been able to prevent adverse information being reported if Halifax had 
done more to help him understand the impact of the arrears in February/March 2021.
Taking this issue as a whole, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Halifax made a 
mistake with the way it has reported information about the mortgage account to the credit 
reference agencies. I say that because Halifax didnt record the information until January 
2021  around three months after the mortgage account had gone into arrears. So I think 
Halifax was entitled to report the information when it did. I think Halifax could have done 
more to explain the impact of the arrears on Mr and Mrs Ks credit files sooner, but I dont 
think that would have prevented the adverse information being applied to their credit files. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Halifax to remove the 
information now or offer Mr and Mrs K more compensation for this.
End of term support
Mr K has recently told us that he thinks Halifax acted fairly and properly towards him 
between 2018 and early 2021. The covers the period in which his mortgage came to an end, 
and in which he applied twice, and was declined twice to extend his mortgage.
As theres no longer any dispute that Halifax acted fairly I will only touch on these issues 
briefly here for completeness.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that Halifax considered Mr and 
Mrs Ks applications to extend the mortgage as it should. I can see that it considered Mr and 
Mrs Ks circumstances as well as its regulatory obligations and attitude to risk. Halifax 
reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks income and expenditure and thought about what it could do to try 
and support them. This included converting their mortgage account to both interest only and 
retirement interest only mortgages. However, when Halifax stress tested their circumstances 
- as it was required to do - the test was failed, and their lending criteria wasnt met. I can see 
that Mr K wasnt eligible for any key retirement option as he wasnt retired at the time. 
Its also clear that Halifax allowed the mortgage to run beyond the contractual end date to 
give Mr and Mrs K time to repay what they owed. 
So I dont think it would be fair to say that Halifax hasnt helped or supported Mr and Mrs K. 
I empathise with Mr and Mrs K, and recognise that this decision is likely be very 
disappointing for them. I appreciate that they have worked hard over a long period of time to 
try to split the title to their property so that they can find a way to pay off their mortgage. I 
have no doubt that the last few years have been incredibly stressful for them. I appreciate 
how their finances and wellbeing have been affected by the amount of time it has taken for 
the issues in this complaint to be resolved. But based on what Ive seen, it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require Halifax to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Halifax 
should pay Mr and Mrs K the £250 it has offered them if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman