DRN-1743949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them an endowment policy to 
repay their mortgage. They say they were told the policy was guaranteed to repay their 
mortgage and that they would receive a lump sum in addition; had they been aware of the 
risk they would have opted for a repayment mortgage. 
What happened
In 2000, Mrs A had an existing endowment policy for the repayment of an interest only 
mortgage. That policy had a sum assured of £38,642. Mr and Mrs A were taking out a new 
mortgage and were looking to borrow £87,352. They were single at the time, although were 
getting married in the near future. They were both employed full time and didn't have any 
dependents. In addition to the mortgage endowment, Mrs A also had a small savings 
endowment and Mr A was saving into a unit trust. 
Bradford & Bingley advised them to take out a further endowment with Legal and General for 
£48,710 over 25 years to match the term of the mortgage.  The policy was invested into the 
With-Profits fund and the monthly premium £92.89. 
More recently, Mr and Mrs A were sent a projection letter which warned them of a high risk 
of a shortfall on maturity. So they complained about the sale of the policy. And when they 
didn't get a response they asked us to look into their complaint. As a result of our file 
request, Bradford & Bingley issued a final response, not upholding their complaint; it was 
satisfied the recommendation was suitable for them. 
Our investigator was also satisfied the recommendation was suitable. Mr and Mrs A have 
asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say they never received the 
reason why letter that was sent, setting out the reasons for the recommendation. And they 
remain of the view they were led to believe the policy was guaranteed to repay their 
mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have complained they were guaranteed their policy would reach the target 
amount and that they would receive funds over and above that - to buy a sofa or go on 
holiday. Their policy was a unit linked policy invested into the With Profits fund. This was a 
pooled investment, investing into shares, government stocks and commercial property.  With 
Profits funds are accepted within the industry as being a low risk investment area. 
The fund was dependent on the particular performance of the underlying investments. I'm 
not aware the policy itself contained any guarantee that it would reach the target amount. I 
accept the adviser likely highlighted the prospect of good returns with the possibility of the 
policy doing so well, Mr and Mrs A may have funds left over after repaying their mortgage. 
But that isn't the same as providing a guarantee as to the maturity value. I'm also mindful of the sales documentation they signed - the fact find - confirming they had a cautious attitude 
to risk and that the risks of the product had been explained. The product literature provided 
illustrated the policy returning lower than the sum required at the lower growth rate used. 
Further explanations that higher or lower amounts than that illustrated could be achieved 
were provided, as was an explanation that the policy wasn't guaranteed. Overall, I don't 
uphold Mr and Mrs A's complaint they were led to believe the policy was guaranteed. 
I have gone on to consider whether the recommendation was suitable. Having considered 
this carefully, I find it was because:
Mrs A already had an interest only mortgage being supported by an endowment 
policy. So she already some experience in this area. Mr A held savings in a unit trust, 
so also had some experience of investing. 
The fact find shows the adviser assessed Mr and Mrs A as having a cautious attitude 
to risk - preferring steady growth over fluctuations. The With Profits fund is accepted 
to be a low risk investment and I'm satisfied the recommendation is commensurate 
with Mr and Mrs A's assessed attitude to risk. 
I'm satisfied Mr and Mrs A's circumstances meant they were in a position to take a 
low level of risk. They were single (although due to get married), both employed full-
time with no dependants. They had disposable income with which to build up savings 
to protect against any shortfall. And the premium was affordable.
The literature provided during the sale explained the policy was dependent on 
investment performance and explained where the investment was made. And the 
follow up letter, explaining the reasons for the recommendation, showed that 
discussions were had about the options available including a repayment mortgage. 
So Mr and Mrs A were aware of the risk and that there were other options available 
that didn't rely on investment performance to repay the mortgage. 
The policy included life and critical illness cover. This meant the mortgage was 
protected (to the value of the sum assured under the policy) should Mr or Mrs A pass 
away, or be diagnosed with a specified critical illness. 
 
Mr and Mrs A have said they didn't receive the reasons why letter, following the 
recommendation. We have been provided with a copy of the letter, which was correctly 
addressed to them at the time. It was a regulatory requirement for this to be sent and I have 
no reason to doubt it was. And I'm mindful that the vast majority of correctly addressed mail 
is correctly delivered. Overall, I think it was most likely correctly delivered even if Mr and Mrs 
A no longer have a copy or they don't recall it. 
Mr and Mrs A have also referred to Bradford & Bingley mis-selling them PPI, possibly by the 
same adviser, but this hasn't been taken into account. Whilst Mr and Mrs A may have been 
mis-sold PPI it doesn't necessarily follow that the endowment was also mis-sold; they are 
two entirely different products and different considerations apply to an assessment of any 
sales complaint. I have explained above why I have found the sale of the endowment policy 
suitable. 
As I have found the endowment policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs A's needs and 
circumstances at the time, I don't uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Bradford & Bingley. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman