DRN-4324280
The complaint
E, a limited company, says Xbridge Limited (trading as Simply Business) didnt tell it about 
changes to its legal expenses insurance policy when this renewed in 2021. 
What happened
E is a business which leases properties from landlords and lets them out. It has legal 
expenses insurance arranged through Xbridge on a non-advised basis. Its made successful 
claims on that policy. At renewal in 2021 the insurer and policy terms changed. In particular 
the renewed policy contained an exclusion for claims relating to the sale, purchase, terms of 
a lease, licence, or tenancy of land or buildings."
In 2022 E claimed on its policy because it had a dispute with the landlord of one of the 
properties it leased. The insurer turned down the claim as it thought the above exclusion 
applied. E complained to Xbridge the policy didnt cover the key thing it needed cover for. It 
thought Xbridge was responsible for its loss of income from the leased property. It said if 
insurance cover had been in place, it would have been able to take legal action to regain 
possession of that property. 
Xbridge accepted that prior to renewal it hadnt highlighted the change in wording to E. It 
instructed the current insurer of Es policy to ignore that exclusion and progress the claim 
(which included assessing whether it had reasonable prospects of success  a requirement 
of both this and Es previous policy). And it agreed to pay the legal fees E had incurred up 
until that point which amounted to £1,920. It also offered to pay a further £300 in recognition 
of the inconvenience E was caused by what it got wrong. 
Our investigator noted the assessment of the claim which had by then been carried out 
concluded it didnt have good prospects of success. He said if E wanted to challenge that it 
would need to provide the insurer with a contrary legal opinion. But he didnt think the 
compensation awarded did enough to recognise the impact on E of what Xbridge got wrong. 
He thought that should be increased to £750. He also said Xbridge should refund the 
payments E had made for the legal expenses cover. 
Xbridge agreed to the increased compensation and the refund (though as it wasnt able to 
cancel the policies said it was happy to leave the cover in place). E didnt agree. It thought 
Xbridge was responsible for the financial loss it had suffered and the proposed 
compensation wasnt sufficient to recognise this. And it challenged the rationale for the 
negative prospects assessment of its claim. 
Our investigator explained that matters to do with the insurance claim didnt form part of this 
complaint. In relation to the matters that did he didnt think E had shown there was a link 
between the failing by Xbridge and the losses it had incurred. He said hed move the 
complaint for review by an Ombudsman unless E said it accepted his view. As no response 
was received the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Xbridge arranged cover for E on a non-advised basis. So under the relevant 
rules it didnt need to ensure the policy was suitable for it. But it did need to provide E with 
clear, fair and not misleading information so it could decide for itself if the policy was right for 
it. And in relation to renewals the rules generally require a firm must take reasonable steps 
to ensure a customer is given appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed.
Xbridge has accepted that at renewal of the policy in 2021 it didnt draw Es attention to the 
change in the policy terms which meant that cover for claims relating to the sale, purchase, 
terms of a lease, licence, or tenancy of land or buildings was now excluded. And thats 
significant for E given the focus of its work is on the leasing and letting of properties. I also 
understand that prior to the change E made successful claims on its legal expenses policy. 
So I think this is something that would have been important to E. And its likely that if it had 
been made aware of the change it would have ensured it had legal expenses insurance in 
place that didnt contain an exclusion like this.   
Ive gone on to think about whether the actions Xbridge has taken do enough to put E back 
in the position (as far as possible) it would have been but for the failing on its part. I can see 
Xbridge instructed Es current insurer to consider the claim against the policy terms 
disregarding the relevant exclusion. I think that does put E back in the position it would have 
been without any failing by Xbridge; the cover that would have been in place but for that 
failing is available to E. 
I appreciate E is unhappy with how the insurer then progressed matters and its decision to 
decline the claim based on a negative prospects assessment. But thats something it will 
need to pursue with that insurer; it isnt something that results from what Xbridge got wrong. 
The requirement for a claim to have reasonable prospects of success is common to nearly 
all legal expenses insurance policies. And our investigator explained to E what it would need 
to do, in line with our normal approach, where a policyholder wants to challenge a prospects 
assessment. 
Ive gone on to think about whether the compensation for the delay in cover being put in 
place is appropriate. E has suggested that if cover had been available from the outset it 
could have taken immediate action to protect its interests and it wouldnt have lost control of 
the property to the landlord (meaning its subsequent loss of rental income would have been 
avoided). 
I dont think the evidence supports that. I understand the landlord of the property issued a 
notice on 1 July 2022 seeking to terminate Es lease of the property. E made clear in 
response it didnt accept this. The landlord nevertheless took possession of the property on 
14 August 2022 by changing the locks. E engaged solicitors (I understand after its claim had 
been declined by its insurer) who sent a letter before claim in September 2022. 
And in its complaint to us E said it was unhappy it was having to pay thousands of pounds 
for legal expenses to make this claim privately. Ive not seen evidence to show that even if 
Es insurer had accepted the claim at an earlier date the position on prospects of success 
would have been any different. So the policy wouldnt have provided funding for the claim. 
And even if the position on prospects had been different the loss of control of the property 
was caused by the landlord changing the locks. I havent seen anything to show an earlier 
acceptance of the claim would have prevented that. In addition, E appears to have protected its position by responding to the notice from its 
landlord and engaging its own solicitors who then sent a letter before claim. So legal steps 
were taken in relation to the matter. As a result I cant see Xbridge can be held responsible 
for the loss of rental income from the property; there isnt a causal link between that and 
what it got wrong. The cost of employing solicitors might be linked to that but only if this is 
something the policy would have covered but for Xbridges error. And given the claim was 
subsequently assessed as not having good prospects of success Im not persuaded it would. 
But as Xbridge has agreed to refund these costs this isnt an issue I need to determine in 
any case. 
I appreciate E was caused inconvenience by what Xbridge got wrong. I recognise it took a 
number of months for this issue to be resolved. But while E has suggested compensation 
should reflect distress the eligible complainant in this case is E which is a limited company. 
A limited company isnt a natural person and cant suffer distress in the way an individual 
can. E has also suggested it suffered potential reputational damage as a result of what 
Xbridge got wrong. That is something I could consider but I havent seen other evidence to 
support that. Taking everything into account I think £750 (in addition to refunding the 
solicitors costs E incurred and the payments made for the policy) does enough to recognise 
the inconvenience E was caused by what Xbridge got wrong. 
Putting things right
Xbridge will need to reimburse E the legal fees it incurred of £1,920. It will also need to 
refund the amount it paid for the policy (£192.50). And it will need to pay compensation of 
£750 for inconvenience caused to E. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Xbridge Limited will need to put things right by doing 
what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman