DRN-4094464
The complaint
X complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) caused damage to his 
car when it was handling a claim on his motor insurance policy. When I mention UKI I also 
mean its repairers and recovery agents.
What happened
X had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car. 
In late 2022 his car was damaged. UKI took his car to one of its approved repairers. The car 
was repaired and returned to him.
X noticed some damage to some chrome trim. He said UKI damaged the trim while his car 
was in its care. He complained to UKI.
UKI upheld his complaint. It asked him for any photos he had of the damage and it asked 
him to get an estimate of the cost to repair it.
X said he thought the damage would cost about £700-£800 to fix, but he didnt provide an 
estimate from a repairer.
UKI closed his complaint because X didnt supply the evidence it had asked for.
X was unhappy about this and he brought his complaint to this service. He complains that he 
wasnt able to part-exchange the car when he wanted to, and then it had lost value when he 
could. He is unhappy with UKIs service and that UKI closed his complaint without checking 
with him.
Our investigator looked into Xs complaint and upheld it in part. She said she thought UKIs 
communication with X hadnt been very good and it should have explained what it needed 
better. She said it should pay X £100 compensation for his inconvenience.
X didnt agree with the view. He said his car lost over £12,500 of value because of the 
delays caused by UKI. He wants the cost of the repairs paid, and compensation for his time 
and inconvenience in chasing up UKI. UKI agreed with the view.
Because X didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file, Im upholding Xs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The damage to the car
Ive looked at the evidence Ive been provided and I can see that X reported the damage to 
UKIs delivery driver as soon as his car was brought back to him. As part of its investigation, 
UKI asked X for any evidence he had, and an estimate for the cost to repair the damage. 
I can also see that X was frequently chasing up UKI, and specifically its approved repairer 
and the recovery contractor, during this time. Its important that I say these companies were 
working on UKIs behalf, so UKI is responsible for their actions.
Its significant that X didnt supply UKI with an estimate for repairs. I can see he told UKI that 
the price would be about £700-£800, but its fair that UKI would need to see an actual 
estimate from a repairer to fix the damage. 
Its important that I say UKI accepted that Xs car was damaged whilst in its care, but it 
couldnt proceed with his complaint any further because he didnt supply an estimate.
Taking everything into account, I think UKIs actions in investigating Xs complaint were fair. 
And because he didnt provide it with the information I think it reasonably needed, UKI then 
said it would close his complaint. In its letter it also said:
If you would still like to pursue the matter, please submit an estimate for the 
rectification work required for our engineer to review.
Its clear to me that UKIs actions have been fair and reasonable here. If X wants to have the 
repair considered by UKI, then he needs to provide an estimate that meets its reasonable 
requirements.
Depreciation
X has asked for compensation for the amount of depreciation his car has undergone. He 
thinks UKI should pay for this because the damage meant he wasnt able to trade his car in 
around December 2022. I can see from the file that it was Xs intention to sell the car at this 
time. 
Im unsure why X says he wasnt able to trade the car in with the damage it had. Damage is 
something taken into account by motor dealers in their calculations for trade-in values; 
typically they will assess the cost for them to repair defects and deduct these amounts from 
the trade-in value. And their costs are trade, rather than retail, prices.
It seems to me that X had various options when he discovered the damage and made his 
initial complaint. He could have traded in his car, in which case he would have been able to 
see the impact of the damage on the trade-in value. Or he could have had the car repaired 
himself, in which case hed be able to provide UKI with the information it asked for. Or he 
could have provided an estimate to UKI for its consideration and repair.
Instead, X retained the car and its updated estimated valuation in summer 2023 is 
significantly lower than it was in December 2022. Unfortunately for X this is a function of the 
car pricing market. They generally depreciate over time due to a wide range of factors, and it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask UKI to pay for this. 
Complaint
X has also complained about the way UKI handled his complaint. Hes also made a second 
complaint to UKI about the way it closed his original complaint. Its important that I say that 
complaints only about complaints handling dont fall within the jurisdiction of this service, so I 
cant look into this second complaint. But I can look at what happened in the period of his initial complaint. I can see UKI took over 
eight weeks to initially investigate Xs complaint, which is a time period that allows him to 
approach this service without UKIs final response. 
I can see from UKIs file that it was regularly chasing up its suppliers for evidence during this 
time and it was escalating the issue to try and resolve it. I can appreciate the impact of this 
apparent delay on X who was, as Ive said above, seeking to trade in his car during this time. 
Ive said that UKI are allowed eight weeks to carry out its investigation and provide X with its 
final response, so I think its fair that I say its failure to keep X properly updated during this 
time has had an impact on him.
Because UKI are allowed eight weeks to investigate and respond, I cant say its actions in 
doing this werent reasonable.
Ive thought carefully about the impact on X and I think a figure of £100 is fair and 
reasonable for his distress and inconvenience. I know X has asked for more and hell find 
this decision disappointing, but Ive looked at this services guidelines and Im not persuaded 
to award a higher figure.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to pay X £100 for his distress and 
inconvenience from its poor service.
UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the amount within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it X accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman