DRN-4203478
The complaint
Mr R complains Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed his credit card account, 
refused to transfer points he earned using his credit card, and failed to issue him a voucher 
for a hotel stay. He says he wasnt told his account had been closed immediately which 
caused him embarrassment when he tried to use his card.
What happened
Mr R held a credit card with Creation that was linked to membership of a reward scheme. 
Points earned on the card were redeemable against hotel stays and associated benefits. 
One specific reward was an anniversary voucher, which could be redeemed for a one night 
stay at a hotel. To qualify for the voucher Mr Rs spending needed to reach a specific sum.
Creation reviewed Mr Rs account and decided to close it. They sent Mr R a letter at the end 
of September 2021 giving him 60 days notice before his account would close. Mr R 
complained and said they should still honour the voucher for the hotel stay and refund his 
annual membership fee.
Creation decided to close Mr Rs account immediately in late October 2021. Mr R says he 
discovered this when he tried to use his card in a restaurant. On contacting them he says he 
was told he had to pay off his balance in spite of the original notice period they gave him.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They said Creation hadnt acted unfairly by 
closing Mr Rs account immediately or by refusing to honour the hotel voucher or transfer the 
remaining points. But Creation hadnt shown they notified him when they closed his account. 
If they had, Mr R couldve avoided the embarrassment of having his card declined in a 
restaurant. They should pay him £50 to put this right. They should also give him a prorated 
refund of his annual account fee.
Mr R accepted the investigators findings, but Creation failed to respond. As a result, this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision in my capacity as an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint in part. Ill now explain my findings.
Creation decided to review Mr Rs account and close it. They have the discretion to end a 
customer relationship. And, while they dont need to reveal their reasons to Mr R, I have 
considered the basis of their decision and find its legitimate.
Creation should provide the correct closure notice under the account terms. They originally 
gave 60 days notice, but later changed their mind and closed the account immediately. 
Based on the information Ive available Im satisfied Creation could close the account 
immediately, and their decision was in line with their legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr R wants his remaining points transferred and his anniversary voucher or a cash 
equivalent. But after considering the basis for Creations decision, Im satisfied their decision 
to refuse Mr Rs request was reasonable. So, Im not directing them to give Mr R what he 
wants.
I am not, however, satisfied by the service Mr R received from Creation. I havent seen a 
good reason why they didnt notify him that they changed their position and his account had 
closed. Ive no reason to doubt he tried to use his card in a restaurant  Creation havent 
provided evidence to contradict this  and his embarrassment couldve been avoided. I find 
£50 is a fair sum to compensate him in these circumstances.
I havent seen a good reason why Creation should retain the full annual account fee they 
charged Mr R. He was charged £99 on 21 July 2021 and his account closed on                  
22 October 2021, so he paid for usage of the account he didn't benefit from. Creation should 
refund him a prorated sum representative of the period he no longer had use of his credit 
card account.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr R accepting this decision within the deadline, I require Creation Financial 
Services Limited to:
- Pay him £50, excluding any previous compensation they have paid.
- Pay a prorated refund of the account fee for the time Mr R no longer had use of the 
account.  
My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to 
pay compensation according to my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman