DRN-2652475
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster Bank) mis-sold him a U First packaged 
bank account in 2001. Mr G says he upgraded as it would help him retain his overdraft and 
that the benefits that the account came with were not of use to him.
What happened
Mr Gs account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free current account in May 1986
Upgraded to a fee-paying U First account in August 2001
U First account migrated to fee-paying U First Gold account in September 2014 (as 
this was not a sale but more of a product range simplification, we did not look into 
this as a separate sale)
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt think the U First account had been mis-
sold. They also did not think that anything went wrong with the change to the U First Gold 
account.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to the sale of the U First 
account and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. This decision will 
only consider the sale of the U First account. I say this because Mr G does not seem to be 
directly complaining about the change to the U First Gold account but is more complaining 
about the initial sale to the U First account.
I note the Mr G has concerns in relation to his overdraft limit being reduced when he 
downgraded his account. I can see that this occurred after Ulster Banks final response was 
issued. Given this, Ulster Bank needs to have an opportunity to investigate this matter first. 
So if Mr G remains concerned in relation to this he would have to direct this issue to Ulster 
Bank in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Gs complaint. Where 
evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything Ive seen 
and been told. 
After giving Mr Gs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the U First account was mis-sold 
to him. Let me explain why.
Firstly, I have thought about whether Mr G was given a fair choice in taking out the account. 
Mr G held a fee-free account for many years prior to having this account. And I can see that 
he had an overdraft on his account prior to the upgrade, so I think that he would have been 
aware that fee-free accounts were generally available and that he could have an overdraft 
on a fee-free account.
Mr G says he thought he had to take out the account in order to make it easier for him to get 
an overdraft in the future but he does not recall why he believed this.
 
Due to the passage of time, I cant be sure exactly what benefits the account came with 
when it was taken out. That said from the earliest records that Ulster Bank have provided, I 
can see that one of the benefits of holding the account was that it came with a guaranteed 
interest and fee-free overdraft facility of £250. And I can see that this was the amount of 
overdraft Mr G held after the upgrade. So, taking everything into account, I think its likely he 
upgraded his account knowing that he did not have to because he wanted this overdraft 
benefit.
Looking at what Ulster Bank and Mr G have said, I dont think the U First account was 
recommended to Mr G. This means that Ulster Bank didnt have to check Mr Gs 
circumstances or check that the account was right for him. But it did have to give Mr G the 
important information about the account and the associated benefits.
Based on the information that I have been provided I think that Mr G was given some 
information about the account. For example, his recollections suggest the dining discount 
benefit was mentioned. Mr G says he attempted to use this benefit but the restaurants he 
chose to use were not part of the scheme. I have carefully considered this and this doesnt 
mean Ulster Bank was wrong to have sold the account to him for that benefit as the dining 
discount was, like all benefits, subject to various terms and conditions and the restaurants 
participating in this scheme were subject to change. Also had he upgraded solely for this 
benefit I believe he wouldve downgraded his account once realising that the restaurants he 
intended to use were not part of the scheme, rather than keep the account for a large 
number of years. 
I also think its likely that the overdraft benefit was discussed with Mr G during the sale of the 
account, given that his arranged overdraft limit after the sale matched the interest free 
overdraft benefit provided by the account.
I accept that Mr G may not have been told all of the details of all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything specific that he was not told that wouldve 
altered his decision to take out the account.
I note Mr Gs concerns in relation to the travel and mobile phone insurance but as these 
were not benefits at the time the account was taken out, they are not relevant to the sale of 
the account itself.
I want to reassure Mr G that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. But having done so, I dont think Ulster 
Bank mis-sold the U First account to him. So I dont think it owes him any money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 Charlie Newton
Ombudsman