DRN-3673810
The complaint
Mr D complains about the poor service provided to him by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) 
when dealing with his mortgage account. Mr D would like £500 in compensation for the poor 
service. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator, for the following 
reasons.
Mr D was sent a letter by BoI on 3 March 2022 letting him know his account was in arrears. 
The letter also explained he would be charged a fee of £25 for no contact/continual default of 
the account. Accordingly, Mr D contacted BoI as required, he was told during the call that 
due to a new policy BoI was no longer charging the £25 fee. However, on 4 April 2022 Mr D 
was sent a further letter regarding the arrears and again it said he would be charged £25 for 
the same reasons. Mr D contacted BoI on 13 April 2022 again and it apologised for the error. 
BoI explained that its systems hadnt fully updated, and some letters were still sent out 
stating that this charge could be added to the account, but it said this was a human error. 
BoI has since put a manual process in place on Mr Ds account to ensure this wording is 
removed from any future letters he receives. 
I appreciate it would have been annoying and frustrating for Mr D to receive the incorrect 
information and have to call BoI again but it apologised immediately for the error in the letter 
and it put in a process to ensure that any future correspondence to him didnt provide this 
incorrect information. I think this was a fair way to resolve this complaint and in line with what 
I would have expected it to do in the circumstances considering the overall minimal impact 
this error had on Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman