The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to process two international 
payment transfers she wanted to send. This caused her significant distress and shed like 
compensation. 
What happened
Mrs K has a Barclays bank account. 
On the 10 December 2019 Mrs K attempted to make an international transfer of £153 to a 
relative Ill call S. Mrs K explained that a close relative had recently passed away and the 
payment was to pay for a grave plot near where the family lived. On the 12 December 2019 
Barclays attempted to contact C to advise that the payment couldnt be processed due to an 
error with the sending details, but they werent able to speak with her. 
On the 20 December 2019 Mrs K attempted to make a second international transfer to S, 
this time for £200.  On the 23 December 2019 Mrs K contacted Barclays to find out why this 
payment hadnt been processed  and she was advised that the same processing error had 
occurred. 
On the 27 December 2019 Mrs K received the payment of £153 back into her account. 
Mrs K made further telephone calls to Barclays to try to find out what was happening with the 
£200 payment. But it wasnt until the 11 January 2020 when S received the funds. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with Barclays actions and explained it caused her and her family 
significant distress. Because S didnt receive the payment until the 11 January 2020 Mrs Ks 
relative wasnt burred in a plot close to where the family lived. Mrs K explained this had a 
detrimental impact on her mental health which led her to double her mental health 
medication. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with Barclays' actions so complained to our service. 
On looking at Mrs Ks complaint again Barclays accepted that the service they offered wasnt 
sufficient. The bank explained that they made a processing error on both occasions  which 
led to the first payment being cancelled and the second delayed by three days. Barclays 
made an offer of £150 to compensate Mrs K for the distress caused, on top of the £80 theyd 
already paid for her phone calls. 
On looking at Mrs Ks case one of our investigators thought that Barclays should have done 
more. He explained that the payments Mrs K made were delayed because of Barclays 
actions and this caused Mrs K and her family significant distress. But, he was only able to 
DRN-1748919take into account the impact on Mrs K. He felt that £250 was a fair level of compensation for 
Barclays to pay. And due to Barclays causing the delay he thought that the bank should 
compensate Mrs K  if further evidence was provided  for the cost of the phone calls she 
made. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view.
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators view. In summary Mrs K said:
Theres been a significant impact on her from not being able to visit her relatives 
grave.
Her mental health has been negatively impacted.
Shes cant provide evidence of the phone call charges  and she didnt need to 
provide this when Barclays refunded the first £80.
 
As Mrs K didnt accept our investigators opinion, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Barclays have accepted that their error caused the first payment to be returned and the 
second payment to be initially delayed  before the processing error was corrected. Theyve 
also explained that they attempted to make contact with the beneficiary bank to confirm 
whether the payment had been credited to Ss account. But the beneficiary bank didnt 
respond. Ive not seen evidence of this, but Im satisfied its likely this was the case  and 
once the payment has been sent by Barclays its the beneficiary banks responsibility to 
correctly process the payment. 
Ive considered the impact of Barclays' actions on Mrs K. Im satisfied that Barclays error 
negatively impacted on Mrs K, and most likely caused her significant distress and a had a 
negative impact on her mental health.  And I understand the impact thats been caused to 
Mrs K by her being unable to visit her relatives' grave. But I also need to consider what 
impact Barclays actions had and whether some responsibility falls on the beneficiary bank. 
Im satisfied that Barclays made some effort to contact Mrs K to inform her of the initial 
problem with the payment  and although I understand that this money was intended to pay 
for a specific purpose, I dont think its fair to hold Barclays solely responsible for the impact 
on Mrs K  I also have to consider there may have been alternatives available to Mrs K to 
reduce the impact of Barclays' errors. In conclusion, I think that £250 is fair compensation in 
recognition of the impact of Barclays actions. 
Ive also considered whether its fair for Mrs K to be asked to provide evidence of the call 
charges she incurred on making contact with Barclays. And I think it is  I understand that 
Barclays paid Mrs K £80, for call charges, without asking for evidence but I think its 
reasonable if payments are made to cover further charges evidence is submitted to 
Barclays. 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. And I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mrs K £250 in trouble and upset
Reimburse any call charges Mrs K incurred on making contact with Barclays between
the 10 December 2019 and the 11 January 2020  minus the £80 already refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman