DRN-2322582
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) have asked it to pay for damages to a contract hire car which D has already 
had repaired.
Mr G, who is a partner of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
In June 2017, D took delivery of a vehicle from MBFS as part of a fixed 24-month contract 
hire agreement.
Shortly before the hire agreement expired, Mr G requested a pre-collection inspection from 
MBFS so he would know what repairs needed to be carried out before the vehicle was 
returned. MBFS arranged for the pre-collection inspection to be conducted at the beginning 
of July 2019.  
The report showed repairs were required for several issues, including damage to alloys, 
excessive damage to the bumper, a cracked screen front and a dented door.
The vehicle was collected 16 days after this inspection took place. MBFS didnt complete a 
post-collection report or take any photographs of the vehicle after it was returned to them.
MBFS pursued D for the cost of the repairs in line with the terms of the contract hire 
agreement. Mr G said he had already had the damage to the vehicle repaired before it was 
collected. He said MBFS wouldve noticed the repairs had been done if theyd completed a 
post-collection check.
Mr G complained to MBFS. They asked D to send them evidence of the repairs being 
completed. In the absence of this evidence, MBFS offered to resolve the matter by reducing 
the bill by 15% as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G was unhappy with MBFSs response, so he brought Ds complaint to this service. 
Our investigator asked D to provide evidence, in the form of invoices or bank statements, to 
show that the repair work had been completed prior to collection. However, D was unable to 
provide any evidence. 
Our investigator said that, although a post-collection report hadnt been completed, MBFS 
had provided a copy of the job card to show the repairs had been completed by them. So, 
our investigator didnt think MBFS had acted unreasonably in requesting that D pay for the 
repairs.
Mr G didnt agree so the case was escalated for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am sorry to disappoint Mr G, but I have reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether MBFS have acted unreasonably in requesting that D pay for the 
repairs. 
Mr G has been unable to provide any invoices from the garages he says D used to complete 
the repairs, and he hasnt provided any bank statements to show how these repairs were 
paid for. 
D has been given plenty of opportunity to provide this evidence and Im mindful of the fact 
that evidence of body shop repairs isnt usually difficult to obtain. 
Mr G said that if MBFS had completed a post-collection report after the vehicle was 
collected, they wouldve seen that the repairs had already been done. I agree that it is 
unhelpful that MBFS didnt complete these checks or take any photographs of the vehicle 
when it was returned. 
However, MBFS have provided a copy of the pre-collection inspection report and a copy of 
the job card showing the repairs having been carried out by their contractor. I have 
compared both documents and can see that the repairs detailed on the job card match the 
repairs required and listed on the pre-collection inspection report. 
On balance, in the absence of any evidence of these repairs from D, I think it is unlikely that 
these repairs were made prior to MBFS collecting the vehicle. Given the evidence from 
MBFS, Im satisfied that it was MBFS that had the damage repaired.
As such, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for MBFS to ask D to pay for the repairs. 
Therefore, Im not going to ask them to do anything further. 
I note MBFS have agreed to honour the 15% discount to the cost of the repairs which they 
offered D in their original response to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above, and I 
wont be asking Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman