DRN-3486683
The complaint
Mr S complained about the poor customer service and delays he experienced under his 
home insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead).
What happened
Mr S contacted Fairmead on 15 September 2021 to make a claim on his policy when he 
noticed a leak coming from his bathroom. Fairmead appointed a contractor to manage the 
claim and a further party was appointed to carry out the remedial repairs.
Mr S said the water leak took may weeks to fix, which he said caused additional damage to 
the bathroom floor, corridor, ceiling, and carpet. Mr S said hes still waiting for the remedial 
repairs to be carried out and he hasnt yet been informed when the works will be done.
Fairmead apologised for the delays and to compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused up until 14 December 2021 when it issued its final response. 
Fairmead paid Mr S £500 (£250 disturbance allowance and £250 for the delays).
Mr S is unhappy at the resolution and the compensation paid and hes raised further issues 
related to the workmanship carried out by Fairmeads contractor and further delays hes 
experienced.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she was only able to look at 
the issues Fairmead had responded to in its response on 14 December 2021  because of 
the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Any new issues she said, would 
need to be put before Fairmead first to consider before the issues can be escalated to our 
service. Our investigator thought the £500 compensation paid by Fairmead was fair for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused between 15 September and 14 December 2021. Mr S 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will set out my decision in two parts:
Issues raised with Fairmead up until 14 December 2021
I have reviewed the timeline of events of the claim to understand how long the delays were 
and to consider how these may have impacted Mr S.
The claim was initially made by Mr S on 15 September 2021. I can see the claim then 
progressed smoothly for a month whilst Fairmead validated the claim. It did this and 
accepted the claim, appointing its contractor for the remedial works who subsequently 
surveyed the works required on 21 October 2021. I think these timescales are reasonable for 
progressing the claim.
However, I can see Fairmead were then unable to provide Mr S with a positive update about 
the progression of his claim, which is what led to Mr S complaint. When Fairmead provided 
a response to the complaint on 14 December 2021, it still didnt know when the remedial 
works would be started. I can see this was down to issues between its contractors, which 
was Fairmeads responsibility. At this point, I have calculated around eight weeks where the 
claim had pretty much stood still due to failings on the part of Fairmeads appointed 
contractors. So, I have considered the impact this had on Mr S.
Fairmeads notes have captured the essence of what Mr S said the impact on him was. I can 
see Mr S explained that he had no hot water facilities at the start of his claim when there 
were issues with his boiler. Mr S said this caused him a lot of aggravation due to his 
vulnerable wifes circumstances. There was no impact on cooking facilities. Under the policy, 
Fairmead were only responsible for the repairs following the leak. Therefore, I cant hold 
Fairmead responsible for issues with the boiler and for a lack of hot water. Its possible Mr S 
could raise a complaint against the insurer who provided his home emergency cover if he felt 
the service provided by it was unsatisfactory. But, as no evidence has been provided that 
Fairmead caused any issues with the boiler, I dont have any information to consider this 
point any further.
Mr S said there are big holes in my corridor ceiling. We wake up [every day] with the smell 
coming from the damp floor and the water damaged carpet. I can see Mr S specifically 
raised the issue of the damp and smell with Fairmead.
Fairmead has paid Mr S £250 disturbance allowance. I think this is a reasonable amount. 
Fairmead wasnt responsible for fixing the leak, only completing the remedial repairs. 
However, I think Fairmead couldve recognised the inconvenience its delays caused earlier 
and paid the disturbance allowance sooner and without the need for prompting through a 
complaint. However, Fairmead has paid a further £250 compensation on top of the 
disturbance allowance. So, I do think Fairmead has paid a fair amount of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it was responsible for. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
New issues that occurred after 14 December 2021
I can see that on 14 December 2021, when Fairmead provided its final response that Mr S 
still didnt have a date when he was expecting the works to be carried out. So, it was likely 
Mr S would have had further issues with his claim. I can see he has raised further issues 
with our service regarding the extended delays after the 14 December 2021 and problems 
hes experienced with the work carried out.
We cant consider all complaints we receive. The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by 
the FCAs rules covering complaints, known as DISP rules. These rules set out the 
parameters for deciding which complaints can and cant be considered.
DISP 2.8 sets out the rule about whether I can consider this part of the complaint. 
Unfortunately, Im not able to consider these new issues raised. As Fairmead issued its 
final response on 14 December 2021, I can only consider the issues raised with it before this 
date as these are the issues it has had the opportunity to respond to. This is consistent with 
the rules set out in DISP 2.8.
Therefore, if Mr S chooses, he can raise a new complaint with Fairmead highlighting these 
additional issues. If hes not satisfied with how Fairmead addresses these issues, he can 
escalate his new concerns to our service.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Fairmead Insurance Limited 
to do anymore in relation with this specific complaint.
However, I wont be able to consider the new issues he has raised since Fairmead issued its 
final response on 14 December 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman