DRN-1222886
 
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining that she doesn't think Tesco Underwriting Limited has fully repaired her 
car after she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2018 Ms S was involved in an accident with another car, so she contacted Tesco to 
claim on her car insurance policy. Tesco arranged for the car to go to one of its approved 
repairers. Mrs S says the car went back to the garage three times for further repairs. But in 
June 2019 the car failed an MOT because one of the wheels had a broken spring. The 
engineer also said the wheel was out of shape.
Mrs S complained to Tesco that she didn't think it had fully repaired the car. Tesco didn't 
uphold the complaint. It said the wheel in question had only suffered minor paint damage in 
the impact from the accident. And it said the car has travelled around 2,873 miles since the 
accident. It agreed the issue with the wheel was likely to be as a result of the spring failure. It 
said the failure of the spring would mean the wheel wouldnt respond to road conditions in 
the same way as it would had there not been a fault. But, it said an engineer had inspected 
the car following the repairs and didn't find any issues with the condition of the wheel other 
than the inner needing inspecting for paint coverage.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold this complaint as she didn't think there was anything to show 
the damage to the wheel and spring was as a result of the accident. And she asked Mrs S to 
provide something from the garage to show that the damage was accident related.
Mrs S didn't agree with the adjudicator and maintained her garage had said the damage 
would have arisen from the accident. So the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
Mrs S says Tesco's approved repairer didn't fully repair all the damage following the accident 
 namely a damaged coil spring and the wheel being out of shape. Ultimately, it's for Mrs S 
to show that the damage in question was most likely to be caused by the accident.  
I note she says her garage told her the damage was from the accident, but I don't think she's 
given us enough to support this. I've reviewed the photos of the damage from the accident 
and taken into account the repair costs. It seems to me the impact was relatively minor and 
the damage does appear to be largely cosmetic. So I dont think Ive seen enough to show 
that the low impact that occurred would have damaged the wheel and spring.
I note that the car was around 10 years old and had travelled around 80,000 miles when the 
accident happened. I also note the alloy wheels had a fair amount of pre-accident damage. 
Mrs S had also travelled 2,873 since she got the car back. Taking everything into account, I 
think it's most likely the damage to the spring and wheel was caused separately to the 
accident. So I don't think Tesco is required to repair it under this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman