DRN-3812201
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and the length of time it took to repair his car 
after it was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. Mr S also complains about the 
courtesy car he was provided.
Mr S has been represented by his wife, Mrs S, for most of the complaint process. For ease 
of reference, as Mr S is the main policyholder, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments 
made, by either Mrs S or Mr S as made by Mr S through the decision.
What happened
Mr S held a motor insurance policy that was underwritten by Aviva. On 14 February 2022, Mr 
S car was damaged while parked at his workplace after another car had rolled into it. The 
third party admitted liability at the time, explaining they had failed to put the handbrake on. 
So, the accident was classed as a non-fault accident.
Mr S has confirmed the third-party insurer (TPI) contacted him and offered him £150 to allow 
them to repair the car for him. But Mr S refused this, instead opting to progress his claim 
through Aviva, his own insurers.
Mr S car was inspected, and the necessary replacement parts ordered. These parts were 
due to be received by the repairer, who Ill refer to as R on 4 March. So, Mr S car was 
collected on 25 February and he was provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile. But 
the repair didnt go ahead as planned as the part didnt arrive. And Mr S was unhappy with 
the courtesy car. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with how long hed been without his car, when the repair hadnt been 
completed. And he questioned why his car has been taken to the repairer when it was 
driveable. Mr S was also unhappy with the size, and condition, of the courtesy car hed been 
given. 
Aviva responded to the complaint and upheld it. They recognised the inconvenience Mr S 
had been caused by the repair delays. While Aviva explained the delay was due to the 
delivery of the part which they couldnt control, they appreciate the upset this had caused. 
And they accepted Mr S had encountered difficulties trying to raise his concerns about the 
courtesy car hed been given. So, Aviva paid Mr S £150 to recognise this. And they 
upgraded the courtesy car Mr S could be given and asked the rental car company to contact 
Mr S to arrange a car switch.
This switch was arranged. But Mr S was unhappy with the length of time hed had to deal 
with the smaller courtesy car. And since Avivas response, R had returned Mr S car back to 
him as the part still hadnt arrived. And when hed received his car, it had been returned with 
a dent. So, Mr S wanted to be compensated for the above.
Aviva responded to the complaint and upheld it again. They thought the £150 they offered in 
their first final response was a fair one. But they accepted R had admitted the dent had been 
caused while Mr S car was with them and so, they offered Mr S another £100 to recognise 
the upset this had caused. Aviva explained the dent would be repaired alongside the 
accident damage when the part had been received, so Mr S didnt need to take his car to R 
twice. Within this response, Aviva also referred to the £150 the TPI had offered Mr S to 
complete the repairs themselves. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the total 
compensatory offer of £250 was a fair one to recognise the delays Mr S had experienced up 
until Aviva had issued their response, Mr S unhappiness with the first courtesy car, as well 
as the additional damage caused to his car. This is because they felt the delays themselves 
were caused due to a part delay, which was outside of Avivas control. And they explained 
Mr S insurance policy explained the courtesy car wasnt intended to be an exact 
replacement for the car he had. So, they didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. And he was unhappy he hadnt received the £150 payment from the TPI, 
which Aviva had referred to in their final response to his complaint. Our investigator 
acknowledging this, explaining they were unsure why this had been referenced by Aviva. But 
they explained the £150 payment offered by the TPI was entirely separate to Avivas 
complaint response. And if Mr S wanted this paid to him, and he hadnt received this, he 
would need to speak to the TPI directly. So, our investigators initial view remained the same. 
Mr S remained unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I appreciate his car was 
damaged through no fault of his own. And I recognise he took the decision to process his 
claim through Aviva as an act of loyalty, under the expectation they would ensure the repairs 
were completed within a reasonable amount of time. So, when the repairs took longer than 
expected, I can understand why Mr S would be left frustrated. I can also appreciate the 
inconvenience Mr S wouldve been caused when the courtesy car he received was smaller 
than his own car, and the upset hed have felt when his own car was returned to him with 
damage caused by R.
Ive seen Aviva have already accepted failures relating to all of these issues. And theyve 
paid Mr S £250 to compensate him for the impact these failures had. As these failures arent 
in dispute, I dont intend to discuss them in detail. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the 
main area of dispute, which centres around what Aviva should do to put things right for Mr S 
and crucially, whether the amount they already paid is fair and reasonable compensation.
Before I discuss this, I think it would be useful for me to explain exactly what Ive been able 
to consider within this decision. Our service is only able to consider complaints that have 
already been raised with a business, where that business has had a chance to respond. So, 
my decision will focus solely on the events that took place before Avivas second complaint 
response in May 2022. Any events that have occurred after this date, including any further 
repair delays, would need to be raised with Aviva separately and then considered by our 
service under a separate complaint if required.Im also aware a large part of Mr S dispute relates to a £150 payment offered to him by the 
TPI. From what I can see, this £150 was offered to Mr S to entice him to allow the TPI to 
manage the repairs, rather than himself. And Mr S didnt take up this option, which may 
explain why this hasnt been received. But whether that is the case or not, Aviva hold no 
responsibility over the £150 the TPI offered Mr S. Nor are they able to influence or direct the 
TPI to make this payment to Mr S. As this complaint is about Aviva, and not the TPI, Im also 
unable to make any comments or directions regarding it and Mr S will need to chase this 
payment with the TPI directly.
But I do appreciate Mr S confusion surrounding this, as Aviva did refer to this £150 in their 
final response letter. But as this was referred to in Avivas complaint response letter, as part 
of their complaint handling, this isnt something Im able to comment on or direct Aviva to 
compensate Mr S for. This is because complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so, 
falls outside of our services jurisdiction to consider.
So, Ive focused solely on the £250 Aviva have paid to Mr S, and are responsible for. I can 
see the first £150 was paid to recognise the difficulties Mr S encountered with his courtesy 
car, and his inability to seek updates and understand what was happening.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr S held. And this explains the courtesy car 
Mr S received is not intended to be an exact replacement for your car before going onto 
explain that A courtesy car is typically a small three door hatchback with an engine size of 1 
litre. So, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong by initially providing Mr S with a courtesy car 
that was smaller than his car that had been taken to be repaired.
But I recognise its been accepted this size of car, and the car itself, was unsatisfactory for 
Mr S. To recognise this, I can see Aviva agreed to upgrade the size of Mr S car with the 
rental company which I dont think they needed to do. And the impact of having a smaller car 
has bee reflected as part of the £150 Aviva initially paid. Considering the above, I think 
Avivas decision to upgrade the car without being required to do so alongside the financial 
payment was a fair one. So, I dont think they need to do anything more regarding this 
complaint.
And I can see Aviva offered to pay Mr S a further £100 to recognise the upset he felt when 
he realised his car had incurred further damage when it was stored with R. Aviva confirmed 
this damage would be repaired alongside the main repair itself when Mr Ss part was 
received at no expense to himself. And I think its worth noting the damage itself didnt 
impact the driveability of the car. So, considering the above, I think Avivas offer was a fair 
one to adequately address Mr S upset and ensure the damage was repaired with as little 
impact to Mr S as possible. So, I dont think they need to do anything more regarding this.
Ive then thought about Mr S concerns regarding the delays. Aviva have factored these 
delays into both payments Mr S has received. But crucially, while inconvenient to Mr S, I 
dont think the delays were the fault of Aviva. Nor do I think they had any ability to control 
them. I can see the delay in repairing Mr S car has resulted from an inability to obtain the 
relevant replacement part. And this delay resulted from delays with the manufacturer.
Considering the delays in the manufacturing of cars within the industry during this time and 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can say this inability to complete the repair was the 
fault of Avivas. And its not in dispute that Mr S remained mobile during the time he was 
without his car, before receiving it back with a temporary repair so he could continue to use 
the car until the part was received.
Because of this, I think Aviva took reasonable steps to minimise the impact to Mr S. And 
while I dont doubt Mr S wouldve expected the repair to be completed sooner, I dont think the delays were a result of anything Aviva did wrong or were able to control.
So, I dont think Ive seen any evidence of further errors Aviva made that means they should 
offer something more than the £250 theyve already paid to Mr S. And because of this, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But I hope it has 
provided some clarity regarding the £150 Mr S believes he is owed from LV and why Aviva 
arent responsible for the payment of this. I hope it also provides some clarification on the 
amount Aviva has paid, why they paid it, and why I think the payment was fair considering 
the circumstances of the complaint up to May 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman