DRN-1372803
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wouldnt carry out a 
chargeback request for a debit card transaction.
What happened
In 2006 and 2007, Mr P made two payments, totalling about £16,000, on a debit card for a 
timeshare membership. 
In 2019, Mr P contacted NatWest to raise a chargeback, as he said the retailer had mis-sold 
the membership to him. NatWest said that it wasnt able to carry out a chargeback request 
as it was beyond the time limits to make the claim.
Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He couldnt 
find any payments that matched the time frame and payment method described. He also 
said that even if the payments had been made by debit card in 2006 and 2007, they would 
now be beyond the 120 day limit in which to make a chargeback request.
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a payment is made on a debit card, a customer can ask their card issuer to carry out 
a chargeback to try and resolve a dispute where something has gone wrong. This can be for 
a range of reasons, such as goods being faulty or not arriving. However, there are strict 
timescales to carry out a chargeback. This is normally 120 days from the payment, or from 
when the customer became aware of the problem. For a Visa card, which is the card 
scheme used by NatWest, there are certain circumstances where a chargeback can be 
raised after 120 days - for example, where tickets have been bought for an event later in the 
year. However, a chargeback cant be raised more than 540 days after the transaction was 
processed.
Mr P no longer had bank statements for the timeframe of this complaint. However, our 
investigator was able to get them from NatWest. This showed two payments made by 
cheque in 2007 for similar amounts to the ones in Mr Ps complaint. However, Mr P says that 
those payments werent for the timeshare membership. 
Mr P confirmed that he made the payment by NatWest debit card, not by cheque or credit 
card. He also confirmed that he only had one bank account and that was with NatWest.
Ive looked at Mr Ps bank statements for the timeframe that he has said the payments were 
made. There are no debit card payments for similar amounts to those that they said were 
made to the timeshare company. The only amounts that are similar are two payments made 
by cheque and a transfer processed by branch staff.It isnt clear exactly when Mr P made the debit card payments but even if the second 
payment was made in late 2007, if the 120 day rule applied he would have had until about 
March 2008 to request a chargeback and if the 540 day rule applied he would have had until 
about mid-2009. Mr P asked NatWest to raise a chargeback well beyond these time limits.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to refuse to raise a chargeback 
and that it doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman