DRN-4506248
The complaint
Ms M complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with an escape of water 
claim she made on her home insurance policy. 
Ms Ms complaint is brought by a representative but for ease of reference Ill refer to Ms M 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Ms M had a home insurance policy with esure. 
At the end of February 2019 there was an escape of water from a mains supply pipe to the 
bath in Ms Ms home. She says liability was accepted by esure and she provided authority 
for esure to liaise with her representative in order to deal with the repairs. 
Ms M says things moved very slowly and eventually in April 2019 it was agreed 
dehumidifiers could be installed. Ms M wanted to arrange alternative accommodation due to 
her mothers ill health but says esure didnt agree to it. 
In July 2019 dehumidifiers were installed and work began to remove plaster. But the works 
were delayed so Ms M says she needed to instruct her own contractor to complete the 
repairs. So she obtained two estimates but these werent agreed by esure. Ms M says esure 
were offering half what her contractors had estimated. 
Since an agreement couldnt be reached an independent surveyor carried out an inspection 
and provided a report. Ms M says the scope of work was agreed but the costs werent. Ms M 
asked that esure pay the costs as set out in the independent report. But it refused to do so. It 
said it had calculated costs at each stage to ensure they were accurate. Ms M says despite 
esure saying this it increased its final offer by almost £2,000. 
Ms M complained to esure. Esure said is reviewed matters and asked its home claims 
management team for input. Esure said on comparing the scope of works provided by its 
own agent and the loss assessor the costs were considerably more. Esure said it was 
satisfied the costs quoted by its agent were fair and so it wouldnt increase its offer. 
Because Ms M remained dissatisfied she referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for her. He said based on what hed seen he was unable to 
say the settlement needed to be increased. He agreed there had been delays and 
recommended esure pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms M didnt agree, and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I recently issues a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
There is a lot of information about the claim Ms M made, and Ive looked through everything 
provided. The detail is well known to both Ms M and esure so I havent described the claim 
in any great detail here. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain 
my decision. It is not my intention to minimise the effect the claim has had on Ms M, and in 
particular her late mother. I recognise the impact the matter has had and I empathise with 
the difficulties shes clearly faced. 
Like most home insurance policies, Ms Ms provides cover if her home is damaged by a 
range of insured events. These events are listed in the policy and include storm, flood, fire, 
escape of water, and theft, amongst other things. So Ive looked at the policy to determine 
whether the claim Ms M has made falls within the terms of the policy. 
In the section What is covered the policy says, Escape of water/burst pipes. We will pay for 
loss or damage to your buildings or contents as a result of water escaping from water tanks, 
pipes, fixed equipment, any domestic appliance or fixed heating systems, or as a result of 
water freezing in water tanks, equipment or pipes. 
So Im satisfied Ms Ms claim was one that esure should pay the cost of in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Alternative Accommodation 
Most buildings insurance policies provide cover for alternative accommodation, often 
referred to as AA. The purpose of the cover is to pay for the reasonable additional costs of 
temporarily rehousing the policyholder when the home becomes uninhabitable. We take 
additional to mean costs above and beyond what a consumer would usually pay if the claim 
hadnt arisen. 
I note the report from the initial surveyor dated 26 March 2019, soon after the incident 
stated, no AA since property has kitchen and bathroom facilities as well as electric and 
heating. So I think its reasonable that alternative accommodation wasnt offered from the 
outset. 
Ms Ms mother was elderly and disabled. The details of her ailments arent known. Esure 
was aware of the vulnerabilities and says it worked around them as much as possible. And 
review of the contact notes shows Ms Ms mother was going to live with relatives when the 
work to the bathroom was being completed and so alternative accommodation wasnt 
offered. And I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms M was paid a disturbance allowance for the period Ms Ms mother lived with relatives. 
This isnt compensation for disturbance or inconvenience; rather its compensation for actual 
extra costs incurred by remaining at home, or with a relative. The industry standard for the 
payment is a rate of £10 per day per adult. So Im satisfied esures offer of £300 for three 
weeks is reasonable.
Delays 
I can see this matter has gone on for a number of years; with the initial escape of water 
occurring in February 2019. I can see that Ms Ms mothers ill health, delays due to 
lockdowns, and the delays caused in trying to agree a way forward between esure and Ms 
Ms representative have contributed significantly to the delays. 
I appreciate esure did try to assist Ms M during a difficult time but it seems the matter has 
been prolonged, contributing to further distress and inconvenience to Ms M. esure didnt manage Ms Ms expectations well since Ms M was under the impression her claim would be 
paid in full once the independent report had been received. But that didnt happen. 
Esure has already covered some costs of the claim including a disturbance allowance for the 
three-week period the bathroom was being repaired, and the amount up to its final 
settlement offer, less any applicable excess. And I think esure tried to be fair to Ms M in 
agreeing to instruct the independent assessor and reviewing its offer and increasing it by 
£1,700. 
But it doesnt have a never-ending liability to Ms M or this claim. And so I think it is 
appropriate to now bring the matter to an end and settle things fairly. It is therefore my 
intention to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I will discuss this further below. 
Settlement of claim 
The policy is clear in how claims are settled. In the terms and conditions it says the following;
If your buildings suffer loss or damage as a result of any of the circumstances listed in your 
policy booklet, we can choose to;
pay the cost of work carried out to rebuild, replace or repair Your Buildings; or 
arrange for Your Buildings to be rebuilt, replaced or repaired; or 
pay the difference between the market value of the Buildings immediately before the 
loss or damage happened and the market value immediately after the loss or 
damage happened. If repair or replacement cannot be economically carried out, any 
payment We make will not exceed the Rebuilding Cost
In the section titled How we settle your claim, the policy says, Where it is possible to 
rebuild, replace or repair your buildings but you do not agree with these settlement options. 
We will pay you cash based on the rebuild, replacement, or repair cost to us. 
On review of the information provided to me by both parties I can see a lot of work has gone 
into trying to resolve the claim for Ms M. esure agreed to the instruction of an independent 
assessor to scope and cost the works when it realised the position between the two parties 
were so far apart. And I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I have seen a number of costings and scope of work as detailed below;
1. 15/09/2019 - £19,200 plus VAT
2. undated - £17,950 plus VAT
3. 23/01/2020 - scope of work from esure
4. £10,103.44 - from esure; less the excess plus £300 disturbance allowance, plus 
£1171.68. Total £11,225.12 
5. 08/02/2021 - Independent instruction £18,470.29 plus VAT
I note from the covering letter for the independent report it details some limitations of the 
report; that the property wasnt seen at the time of the loss so the report relies on quotations 
supplied by others to determine the work. And it cannot say for certain whether the works 
scheduled were needed but featured in the other quotations. 
I also note esures schedule says, the schedule is underspecified and inadequate. The 
independent surveyor also notes esures report is lacking in detail and contains errors. On 
that basis I dont think its fair for esure to rely on its schedule to calculate the settlement. Its not clear why esure agreed to instruct an independent assessor if it was going to 
disregard its findings. I would have expected the report to be used as a basis for negotiation 
of a reasonable and appropriate settlement. But I cant see that this happened. 
The report from the jointly agreed independent surveyor is detailed, thorough, and 
persuasive. The work is broken down and each item is costed. 
In similar cases, where there are two parties giving significantly difference opinions on costs 
based on expert opinion, I might have suggested appointing an additional independent 
expert to provide an opinion. But thats what s already happened in this case, prior to our 
services involvement. 
Having considered the third (independent) surveyors report, Im satisfied he is sufficiently 
qualified and that his opinion is genuinely independent of esure and Ms M. 
While I dont doubt each of the experts, appointment by esure or Ms M, have approached 
this case as impartially as they can, I cant ignore that each were also acting as agents of the 
respective parties; the contractors quoting for Ms M, and the surveyor acting for esure. 
Whereas the chartered surveyor was appointed specifically to provide an impartial opinion 
after having considered the evidence and costs already proposed by both sides. 
Based on the above I consider the independent to be the most impartial of the available 
expert evidence. And taking that into account along with the surveyors level of expertise, the 
content of his report and the additional comments, I also consider his opinion to be the most 
persuasive. 
So, unless any information provided in response to this provisional decision changes my 
opinion, Im intending to direct esure to increase the settlement it paid to Ms M, to the value 
provided by the independent surveyor.  This means it must pay the difference between the 
amount already paid, and the costs provided by the surveyor. 
Service issues 
Ms M has complained about the handling of the claim. Ive thought carefully about everything 
that happened, including how Ms M says shes been impacted by these issues. It must be 
noted that insurance claims like this are likely to cause some distress and inconvenience by 
their very nature, and that isnt the fault of the insurer. But in this case, I think that further, 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience has been caused. 
And had esure settled the claim fairly in the first instance, I dont think Ms M wouldve 
needed to continue to engage with esure, her representative, and this service in an attempt 
to recoup the amounts she felt she was owed under the policy. Im satisfied this has taken 
time and effort from Ms M, and I dont doubt it would have been both stressful and upsetting 
during that process. Our investigator recommended esure pay £200 to recognise the trouble 
and upset. But I think in the circumstances £450 is fair and falls in line with our services 
approach. So I intend to direct esure to pay this additional amount.
Response to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Ms M accepted my findings. Esure didnt provide any new information or evidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that Miss M agreed with my findings set out in my provisional decision 
(which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), and esure didnt 
respond, Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons set out above Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Settle Ms Ms claim at £18,470.29. Less any amount already paid by way of interim 
payment
Add interest, at an annual rate of 8% simple, to the above, from the date the original 
settlement was paid to the date of settlement 
Pay Ms M £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons explained I uphold this complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to do 
what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman