DRN-2339469
The complaint
Mrs G complains about what happened when she tried to open an ISA savings account with
Charter Court Financial Services Limited. Mr G has supported Mrs G in making this
complaint.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G both have a joint savings account with Charter. That joint account is funded
from Mr Gs sole account, held elsewhere. Mrs G decided to open an ISA in her sole name
with Charter too. It was very close to the end of year deadline for investing in an ISA, when
Mrs G did this.
Mrs G said Mr G asked Charter on her behalf about how to open an ISA, but the advice they
got was wrong. Mrs G said that, because she has a joint account with Mr G with Charter
thats paid from an account only in his name, the effect of Charters terms is that Mrs G cant
just open an ISA account with Charter. Charter failed to tell her that. So she made an
application, which was rejected.
When the transaction was rejected, Charter sent Mrs G an email. Ms G said that Charter
shouldve called to tell her this hadnt gone through, as it was a large transaction. The
transaction failed on the last day of the 2018/19 financial year, and by the time Charter told
Mrs G about this, it was too late for her to make an alternative investment.
Mrs G also said Charter had taken far too long to deal with her complaint, and Charters
website didnt set out anything helpful about joint accounts funded from a sole account
either.
Charter said it hadnt given Mrs G any incorrect information. It didnt think the information it
had provided on the phone was the reason why Mrs G had missed out on an ISA investment
for that financial year. But it also said it would review the information that it provides through
the application and its website on nominated accounts in future, to make this clearer.
Charter said it wasnt able to call customers individually when transactions fail. It had sent
Mrs G an email the next day.
Charter wouldnt open and backdate an ISA for Mrs G. It offered £350, which it thought
represented a year of missed interest (worked out at 1.75% on an investment of £20,000).
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Ive not set out his reasoning
here, as Ive not adopted it. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, and the case was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Charter has accepted that it couldve been clearer during the application process 
about the difficulties that an applicant would face opening a new account, if they 
already had a joint account with Charter, which was funded from a sole account not 
in their name. (Charter calls this funding account a nominated account.) The person 
who is named on the joint account with Charter and not named on the separate 
nominated account will run into problems if they try to open a sole account with 
Charter. Charter didnt say this on the phone, or on its website.
Because Mrs Gs payment didnt come from the nominated account in Mr Gs name, 
the payment failed. I think it would also have failed if it had been paid from Mr Gs 
account. The only way round this would appear to be to change the nominated 
account to a joint account. Charter hasnt told us if there was still time for it to do this, 
when Mrs G first contacted it.
I think Charter is right to say that this problem should be explained. It wasnt 
explained to Mrs G, and I think thats what led to the problems here.
Mrs G has said that Charter shouldve rung her as soon as her payment failed, so 
she couldve invested this money elsewhere. I think this happened at a particularly 
busy time for Charter, and I dont think it had to call Mrs G to say her payment had 
failed.
So what Ive got to think about is whether what Charter has done is enough to make 
up for this. Mrs G missed her opportunity to invest in an ISA in the 2018/19 financial 
year.
When it wrote to our service, Charter said that it couldve backdated the ISA, and Mrs 
G could actually have invested in the 2018/19 financial year. But it needed to speak 
to Mrs G quickly, if it was going to do that. And it couldnt assume she still wanted 
this investment, it didnt know if shed already invested this money elsewhere.
Charter said Mrs G just didnt get in touch. I dont think thats quite right. I can see 
Charter did try to contact Mrs G, but I dont think it told her it might still be able to 
make this investment. And I think she did get in touch.
I can hear that on 6 April, Charter told Mr G repeatedly that Mrs G wouldnt be able to 
invest for the 2018/19 financial year. It finished that call by confirming this again.
Ive also listened to a call on 29 April. At that point, Charter now says that Mrs G was 
still within time for it to be able to open a 2018/19 ISA for her. But she wasnt given 
any indication of this on that call. What Charter did say was that despite having told 
her she could call back in the early evening, the person she needed to speak to 
wasnt there.
I have taken into account that if Charter had been able to speak to Mrs G, it couldve 
put things right. But it didnt tell her that, even when she did call back. So I still think 
its mostly Charters fault that it didnt manage to speak to Mrs G to resolve this issue 
and open a 2018/19 ISA account for her.Charter has offered Mrs G £350, which is the interest that Mrs G wouldve earned 
over the next year on her intended ISA savings with Charter. Charter points out that 
Mrs G could still invest her money elsewhere, so she would still receive almost all of 
that interest. I note that Mr G said Mrs G was going to invest this money elsewhere, 
so I think thats right. I dont think Mrs G missed out on a full year of interest because 
of what Charter did, and I dont think Charter would have to pay a year of interest to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
But Mrs G has lost out in another way. Mr G and Mrs G point out that they have lost 
the benefit of having the ISA investment made in 2018/19 in the tax years to come. 
An ISA is a rolling investment, subject to an annual limit, so I accept what they say 
about that. But, because I dont think that Mrs G has lost £350 in interest, I think that 
a payment of £350 is the right amount to make up both for the inconvenience Mrs G 
faced, and the lost benefit of not paying tax on interest earned on her proposed 
2018/19 investment for some years to come. So thats what Ill award. (I understand 
that hasnt yet been paid, but in case it has, Ill allow Charter to offset anything its 
already paid for this complaint against my award.) 
Although I know that Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed, I dont think Charter has to 
pay more than this.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Charter didnt reply. Mrs G sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G made a number of detailed comments on my provisional decision.
Mrs G wanted me to amend the arguments that Charter had put forward about the 
information available on its website and the information it gave Mrs G over the phone. I dont 
think its appropriate for me to change the arguments that Charter has put forward. I think its 
important to record the arguments that either side has put forward, as part of providing an 
independent dispute resolution service. As Mrs G has recognised, I certainly havent 
accepted all of those arguments in full. 
Mrs G said that Charters requirement that any savings with it were funded through the 
existing account robbed her of her financial independence. She said Charters actions had 
removed her right to directly act on her own finances, independently of her husband. She 
wanted me to raise this with Charter. 
I understand Mrs Gs concerns, but I dont think that what has happened here is what the 
Financial Abuse Code of Practice is aimed at. Charter asks its customers to fund their 
accounts from one nominated account. Mr and Mrs G could just as easily have funded their 
first Charter savings account from an account in the name of Mrs G, or a joint account. 
Mrs G also said that she hadnt realised until reading my decision that any payment from her 
husbands account would also have failed, as an ISA has to be funded from an account in 
that persons name. 
Mrs G said that Charter didnt need to call when her payment failed. If it had emailed the 
same day, the problem would also have been avoided. I dont think its unreasonable for 
Charter to email the next day, particularly at such a busy time.Mrs G felt that Charter was being disingenuous by saying now that it couldve backdated her 
ISA. She wanted to know why I wasnt holding Charter to account for this. But I havent 
accepted what Charter said here, and Ive decided Charter should pay compensation in this 
case. 
Mrs G said that my understanding of her losses was incorrect. She said she had lost a full 
years tax savings allowance, a benefit that she can transfer and grow tax free in future 
years. She said what she lost is a future transferable value of £20350, not £350 interest only.
Mrs G said in year 1, she could invest 20K, get £350 interest and in the following year open 
a new ISA which permits transfer-ins. Then she could invest £40350 and earn interest tax 
free on the whole amount.
She said that now she was missing this year, due to Charters actions. So she had lost a roll-
able tax-free investment of £20,000.
Mrs G also said she had not banked the proposed compensation of £350. If thats the case, 
Charter may have to reissue any cheque it has sent Mrs G.
Mrs G said that although shed only given an example of savings over two years, she could 
show that she was a long-term ISA investor, that she invests to the full £20,000 annual limit 
and that she has used the transfer-in mechanism to move and maximise her ISA 
investments. She said the compensation was insufficient, considering this. Mrs G said she 
has a right to this tax-free allowance and as set out by the Government have the right to roll 
it over.
I still think that a payment of £350 would provide a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. Thats because I dont think Mrs G has lost as much as she fears. 
Mrs G missed the deadline to pay into an ISA in 2018/19. But that doesnt mean she cant 
invest her £20,000 and earn interest on it. She can still have a rolling investment of £20,000. 
Indeed, Mrs G may well find she is able to earn rather more interest through a savings 
account than through an ISA. 
If Mrs G saves in an ordinary account, that just means that she may have to pay tax on that 
interest. But that interest is only payable if Mrs G has used up a number of tax allowances. If 
not, Mrs G may well pay little or no tax on her savings interest.
Mrs G hasnt shared with us this level of detail of her financial position. But when I 
considered this case, I thought about what would happen if Mrs G has used up all of these 
allowances, and if shes a higher rate taxpayer, with a high level of savings held outside of 
an ISA wrapper. But even in that circumstance, what Charter has paid would comfortably 
cover more than two years of tax which Mrs G may have to pay on her savings, without 
allowing for the additional interest she can earn on a savings account compared to an ISA, 
or for the drop in interest rates since 2018/19. 
I think that is a fair amount to resolve this case.My final decision
My final decision is that Charter Court Financial Services Limited must pay Mrs G £350. It 
can count towards that sum any money it has already paid Mrs G for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman