DRN-3081227
The complaint
Mr O complains on behalf of a limited company O, that Barclays Bank UK PLC, restricted 
access to Os accounts and closed them without appropriate notice. 
What happened
Mr O is a director of O Ltd. Mr O has also brought a complaint to our service about his 
personal accounts which Ill be looking at in a separate decision. 
On the 6 February 2020 Barclays contacted Mr O to explain they were carrying out a review 
of Mr Os accounts and they needed further information.
Mr O explained that he was in Nigeria at the time however hed be returning in March 2020 
and could answer the banks questions then.
On the 26 February Barclays wrote to Mr O informing him that Os facilities would be closing 
on the 27 April 2020. However, on the 13 March 2020 Mr O was no longer able to access 
Os accounts. And on the 7 April 2020 a letter was sent to Mr O notifying him Os account 
would be closed with immediate effect. 
The bank explained they received a report of a fraudulent transaction in March 2020 which 
led them to immediately close Os accounts. Mr O submitted evidence on behalf of O to 
show his entitlement to the funds in his account  and Os money was available on the 
22 July 2020. However Barclays didnt notify Mr O until the 21 August 2020, and he collected 
the funds on the 3 September 2020. 
Mr O wasnt happy that Barclays prevented O using its account, he explained it meant O had 
to cease trading for 5 months and theyd not treated his business fairly.
Barclays initially loaded negative fraud markers against Mr O  as the director of O. 
However, following evidence Mr O provided in August 2020 they were satisfied that Mr O 
wasnt complicit in any fraud that may have taken place. And removed the markers. 
Mr O complained to Barclays. The bank explained theyd acted fairly in restricting access to 
Os account and closing it with immediate effect on the 7 April 2020. However, the bank 
accepted they didnt complete their review within the expected timescales and shouldnt 
have loaded fraud markers against Mr O. In total they offered £450 compensation in 
recognition of the impact caused to both Mr O, regarding his personal accounts, and O.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint  but didnt uphold it. In summary they 
thought Barclays had acted fairly in restricting Os access to their account and later closing 
it. And overall they thought the £450 offered by Barclays was fair compensation for the 
length of block and the impact of the fraud markers. 
Mr O didnt accept our investigators conclusions. In response he said:
The proper procedure wasnt followed when Os account was closed.
They closed Os account 6 weeks earlier than they said and denied him time to find 
alternative banking arrangements.
The bank held on to Os funds for 6 months.
They made an error in loading the fraud markers on Mr Os record.
Hed like to be compensated for the financial loss, stress and anxiety and the loss of 
Os credibility. 
As Mr O didnt accept our investigators conclusion, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Os access to his account was limited on the 13 March and then closed on the 7 April 2020. 
Although I appreciate that Mr O is unhappy that restrictions were placed on Os account 
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations. Mr O agreed to this term as a customer and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed 
Os account. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it initially blocked Os 
account and didnt allow them access to their funds.
However, Barclays have accepted that they didnt review Os account within their own 
timescales  10 working days. And theyve offered compensation in recognition of this.
Account closure
Os account was closed with immediate notice on the 7 April 2020, however Mr O was 
initially informed that Os account was going to be closed with 2 months notice on the 
26 February 2020.  
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly when closing Cs account. A bank is entitled to 
close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But, before a bank 
closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of 
the account. 
The terms and conditions of Os account state that there are certain circumstances in which 
a bank can immediately close a customers account. Section 5 of the terms and conditions 
state that Barclays can close an account without any notice if they reasonably believe:
You put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty 
that applies to us if we maintain your account.
You give us false information at any time.
You commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else.
You use or try to use your account illegally or for criminal activity, including receiving 
proceeds of crime into your account  or you let someone else do this. 
You inappropriately let someone else use your account. You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
If you are a company and all your directors have been or could be disqualified under 
UK law
Ive considered these terms and from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays acted 
within the terms and conditions when they closed Os account. I appreciate that Barclays 
initially advised O that the business would have until the 27 April 2020 before the account 
was closed  and later closed the account early on the 7 April 2020. However, as I think 
Barclays fairly applied their terms allowing immediate closure I cant say they werent entitled 
to do this. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr O and I appreciate the closure of Os account caused 
him inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers 
banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can 
decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in Os 
case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close his 
account. 
Release of funds and Fraud markers
Os funds, of just over £1,000, were released to Mr O on the 3 September 2020. Mr Os 
unhappy about the length of time Os funds were withheld  and I can understand his 
position. However, Barclays have a responsibility to follow the relevant laws and industry 
regulations and to be satisfied a customer is entitled to them before theyre released, as in 
Mr Os case. I can see that Mr O provided additional evidence, demonstrating his proof of 
entitlement to the funds, on the 22 July 2021. 
Theres an unexplained delay at this point, with Barclays not notifying Mr O that Os funds 
were available to collect until the 21 August 2020. Considering Mr O didnt collect the funds 
until the 3 September 2020 I dont think that the delay in notifying Mr O caused him 
significant inconvenience. Following the new evidence the bank also concluded theyd made 
an error in loading the fraud markers and removed them. Mr Os provided evidence of a 
failed application for a business bank account in June 2020 and a successful application in 
July 2021 after the fraud markers were removed. Overall, Im satisfied its highly likely the 
markers negatively impacted on Os chances of opening a new account and obtaining 
suitable credit. However, I cant be certain this is the sole reason O struggled to gain new 
accounts  as our investigator outlined Mr O has also provided our service with evidence 
that O was rejected for a bank account in December 2020, sometime after the fraud markers 
were removed.  
Barclays have offered a total of £450 in compensation to both O and Mr O. In this decision 
Im dealing with the impact caused to O by Barclays actions, not Mr O. And in doing so Ill 
only be considering the financial impact of Barclays actions on Os business operations  
and not any distress or inconvenience caused to Mr O by the banks actions. 
Mr O has argued that O wasnt able to successfully trade during the time Os account was 
restricted, and then closed. And then struggled to open a new business account. Mr O has 
also mentioned that O has suffered damage to their reputation  however Ive not seen any 
evidence this is the case. Ive also not been provided with any evidence of invoices or 
contracts O wasnt able to fulfil. In my consideration of the impact of Barclays actions I also 
need to take into account that Im satisfied the bank acted fairly in initially restricting Os 
access and delaying the release of funds until proof of entitlement had been provided. Putting things right
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that the offer Barclays made for 
£450 is in line with our approach. And I wont be asking the bank to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Pay O £450 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman