DRN-3025008
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua handled a call. Ms D also 
complains that Aquas app doesnt provide clear information about her credit card. 
  
What happened
In May 2021 Ms D called Aqua to check whether a payment had been received. Ms D says 
Aquas app doesnt clearly provide that information. 
Ms D says the call was handled poorly and Aqua set up a payment arrangement without her 
consent. Ms D says the call handler was rude, talked over her and caused unnecessary 
distress. Despite Ms D advising she didnt want to discuss setting up a direct debit she has 
explained the call handler refused to drop the matter. Ms D has told us she suffers with 
significant mental health concerns and the way her call was handled triggered serious 
distress. 
Ms D has also told us she finds the information Aquas app provides is unclear and that she 
has to call for guidance. But Ms D says Aqua provides confusing information when she calls.  
Ms D complained to Aqua upheld it and paid her £40. Aqua couldnt find a call recording 
covering the conversation when a payment arrangement was set up. Aqua didnt agree the 
call handler Ms D spoke with was rude and said they had only tried to provide information 
about the direct debit process to Ms D. 
Ms D referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
listened to the available call and felt the call handler should have dropped the direct debit 
issue when Ms D asked and had caused unnecessary distress. The investigator upheld Ms 
Ds complaint and asked Aqua to pay her a total of £150 to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused. Aqua didnt agree that the increased compensation is a fair way to resolve the 
complaint so Ms Ds case has been passed to me to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms D has concerns about the information provided by Aquas app and has told us 
its not always clear. I dont doubt what Ms D has told us, but we cant tell a business how its 
systems, including an app, should work. Ultimately, how a business app operates is a 
commercial decision for it to make. But I can understand why Ms D feels the information 
provided in the app needs to be clear and that she should be able to contact Aqua directly to 
query it if necessary. 
Ms D says a payment arrangement was set up without her consent. Aqua says its not 
possible to provide that call recording. Ive listened to the available call recording and can 
hear Ms D specifically say she didnt want to set up a formal payment arrangement because 
she was concerned about the impact on her credit file. I dont know whether the payment 
arrangement was set up by the call handler Ms D spoke with during that call, or another. But 
Im satisfied Ms D was clear in the information she gave Aqua that she didnt want to set up 
a payment arrangement, so I can understand why she was so upset that step had been 
taken without her consent. 
Having listened to the call, I agree there were several times that the call handler spoke 
across Ms D without letting her finish her point. Ms D was very specific in explaining what 
she wanted to achieve during her call and I think the call handler shouldve listened to her. 
Ms D said she suffers with significant mental health concerns and that the nature of the 
information given and tone of the call handler made it worse. Ms D has explained that 
despite making it clear what she wanted, the call handler continued to talk about direct 
debits. I can understand why Ms D was distressed by how the call was handled and I agree 
the service provided was poor.
I agree with the investigator that £40 doesnt cover the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the way Ms Ds call was handled or that a payment arrangement was set up without her 
consent. Ive taken on board what Ms D has told us about how the situation impacted her 
and the level of distress it caused. 
Aqua has already paid Ms D £40. I agree that a further £110, taking the total settlement to 
£150 is a reasonable way to resolve Ms Ds complaint and fairly reflects the impact of the 
way the situation was handled by Aqua. As a result, Im going to uphold Ms Ds complaint 
and tell Aqua to pay her a further £110.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to pay Ms 
D a total of £150, less any compensation already paid. Any remaining compensation should 
be paid directly to Ms D.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman