DRN-3339149
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with his claim following 
an accident.
What happened
Mr R had motor insurance underwritten by Ageas. He says his car was parked when it was 
hit by another vehicle. Mr R didnt see the collision but says there was a witness who pointed 
out the other vehicle to him. Mr R says his wife went to speak to the other driver, who started 
to fill out a form to exchange details but then became aggressive and drove off. Mr R made a 
claim on his insurance. He sent photos of damage to both the vehicles and identifying details 
of the other vehicle. He also sent a video which he said showed the other driver refusing to 
give their details. As the incident happened in Europe, Ageas appointed a foreign handling 
agent to act on its behalf. The agent advised that there was insufficient evidence to prove 
the other driver was at fault. So Ageas paid for the repairs to Mr Rs car less the excess on 
his policy, and recorded the claim as a fault claim.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained to Ageas. Ageas didnt uphold his complaint. 
Ageas said the other driver denied any involvement, the video footage was only of the other 
driver being accused of the damage and there were no details of the witness. So Ageas said 
there was no evidence the other driver was responsible for what happened. Ageas also said 
there wasnt enough evidence to issue proceedings. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She said she thought Ageas responded fairly to Mr Rs claim and his 
complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr R is 
unhappy that he had to pay the excess of £100 on his claim. He is also unhappy as he says 
the way the claim is recorded as fault made his subsequent insurance premiums higher. Mr 
R says he had to go to a lot of time and trouble to try to sort things out, and it all took longer 
than it should have. He wants Ageas to refund his excess and record the claim as non-fault 
so he can get the higher premiums refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role to decide who was responsible for the damage to Mr Rs car. Rather Im 
looking at whether Ageas dealt with Mr Rs claim in a fair and reasonable manner.
Mr Rs insurance policy said:
General policy conditions
The insurer is entitled under this policy to;
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name.
So under the terms of Mr Rs policy, Ageas was entitled to decide whether and how to 
pursue the third party insurer, including appointing the foreign handling agent to try to 
progress the claim. 
I can see that Ageas did make efforts to recover the money it paid out, but ultimately it 
decided there just wasnt enough evidence to show that the other driver was at fault or to 
issue proceedings. I have watched the video Mr R provided, but its just a film of a driver 
being asked for their name and details. It doesnt show the incident or what the other driver 
was doing whilst being filmed. There was no admission of fault from the other driver, and Mr 
R didnt see what happened or have details of the witness to pass on to Ageas. So I think 
Ageas decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr R is unhappy about the length of time it took to deal with his claim. The incident 
happened in Europe and there was no admission of fault from the other driver or witness 
evidence. So that meant it did take longer for Ageas to investigate. Initially it took time for 
Ageas to even be able to identify the other drivers insurance company from the information 
provided. I can see from Ageas records that it did regularly make efforts to progress the 
claim. When Mr R contacted Ageas he was given updates. This type of claim will inevitably 
take time to resolve and I dont think Ageas took an unreasonable length of time to do so.
Mr R is also unhappy that he had to pay the excess on the claim. His insurance policy 
defined excess as:
the amount you must pay towards any claim. 
This is a usual part of most motor insurance policies. If the other drivers insurer had 
accepted liability, Mr R would have been entitled to claim the excess from it. But this wasnt 
the case. It was in accordance with the terms of his policy that Mr R had to pay the excess, 
and I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable.
Because Ageas was unable to recover what it had paid out from the other insurer, it 
recorded the claim as a fault claim. That doesnt mean Ageas are necessarily saying the 
damage was Mr Rs fault, just that it had had to pay for the repairs. This is industry practice 
and I dont think Ageas has done anything wrong in recording the claim in this way. Different 
insurers treat previous fault or non-fault claims in different ways when deciding what 
insurance to offer a consumer and how much the premiums will be. This is not something 
within Ageas control. 
So overall I think that Ageas dealt with Mr Rs claim fairly and reasonably and in accordance 
with the terms of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Rs claim. So I wont be asking Ageas 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Sarah BaalhamOmbudsman