DRN-3662016
The complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money had a data breach 
and his telephone calls were accessed by an unknown third party.
What happened
Mr K received communication from 118 118 Money, to inform him that they had discovered 
illegal unauthorised access to their network. They said that recordings of customer service 
calls were accessed by the criminals responsible for the cyber attack.
118 118 Money said that as soon as they became aware of the situation, they took the 
immediate step of taking their network offline and worked with cyber security experts to 
ensure the security of both their network and data. They said they had also been liaising with 
the relevant regulators and authorities to keep them informed. They said they had reported 
the incident to the National Cyber Security Centre for further investigation, as well as to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 118 118 Money said that while there was a low 
risk of Mr Ks data being used fraudulently, they would like to offer him a free 12 month 
access to an identity fraud monitoring service.
Mr K made a complaint to 118 118 Money and asked them for compensation. They did not 
uphold his complaint. They said that they can now confirm that after an investigation by 
independent cyber security experts, they did not identify any evidence of attacker mass data 
theft other than the call recordings they identified earlier. 118 118 Money said that although 
Mr K wanted compensation for what happened, they believed the 12 month membership to 
the third party identity fraud monitoring service was an appropriate offer and response.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator did not uphold his complaint. She 
said that having been in contact with 118 118 Money, they had confirmed that around the 
time of the incident, there was no communication between Mr K and the business via the 
phone. So she said its unlikely Mr K wouldve been affected by the incident. Our adjudicator 
also noted that the incident happened more than two years ago and she couldnt see any 
suggestion that there had been any fraud or other misuse of his data. So, while she 
appreciated it wouldve been worrying at the time, she thought the apology and the use of 
the third party identity fraud monitoring service was reasonable.
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that regardless of whether 
data of his had been accessed or not, 118 118 Money cannot say that his own personal data 
was not accessed, and as they are responsible for keeping that data secure, they are still at 
fault. He said he didnt believe giving him access to the third party identity fraud monitoring 
service was adequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed its customer in any way.
118 118 Money confirmed that after an investigation by independent cyber security experts, 
they did not identify any evidence of attacker mass data theft other than the call recordings 
they identified earlier. Our adjudicator asked 118 118 Money if Mr K had called them around 
the time that the unauthorised access took place and they confirmed that after reviewing Mr 
Ks account, there was no evidence to suggest he made contact with them to discuss his 
account around the time the incident took place. So although Mr K received communication 
from 118 118 Money suggesting that his data could have been compromised, it appears 
after further investigation, it would be unlikely that it had been compromised.
I say this as Mr K had not contacted 118 118 Money by phone around the time the incident 
happened. And it has been over two and a half years since the incident took place, which 
may suggest that Mr Ks data has not been compromised as theres been no suggestion that 
there was any fraud or other misuse of his data after the incident. I can understand the 
emotions that Mr K must have felt after receiving the communication from 118 118 Money 
about a potential data breach. 
So Ive considered whether 118 118 Moneys offer of a third party identity fraud monitoring 
service was proportionate for what happened. And Im persuaded it was. I say this as theres 
been no suggestion that there was any fraud or other misuse of Mr Ks data after the 
incident. And as the incident appears to be only related to call recordings, of which the 
evidence suggests that Mr K did not ring 118 118 Money around the time of the incident, 
then Im persuaded the third party identity fraud monitoring service for 12 months was 
proportionate for what happened. It would have allowed Mr K to monitor potential fraud for 
12 months after the incident. So it follows I dont require 118 118 Money to take any further 
action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman