DRN-2867402
The complaint
Mrs D says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly. Mrs D 
says she already had a significant amount of debt when she borrowed from Mutual. She 
says it shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs D between April 
2012 and November 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 21/04/2012 £1,000 51 23/10/2013
2 26/10/2013 £1,000 102 24/05/2017
3 14/03/2015 £1,000 102 13/12/2017
4 16/12/2017 £500 51 21/11/2018
5 17/11/2018 £1,000 51 04/03/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She said that Mutual shouldnt have approved 
any lending from 3 onwards as the lending pattern itself was harmful. Mutual disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said, and its own summary of this 
is below:
Mutuals loans are a mid-cost product not a high-cost one, the lending should not be 
assessed as high-cost.
Mutuals lending was for durations of 1-2 years, a short term lending approach is 
not suitable for the assessment of the loans issued.
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing. The loans were 
spread over many years.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending 
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this 
assessment should be made.
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans.
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending in any rule or 
guidance we are aware of.
Taking 5 loans over 7 years is not the same as taking 5 loans in 1 year.
Mrs D didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part Ive explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs D. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say, briefly, that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mrs D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And, for the avoidance of doubt, given the evidence I have, I agree with what the adjudicator said about this lending. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mrs D had with Mutual. So, it is something I will 
take into account when considering the other loans she took.
I will say that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it made 
concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there is very little evidence to 
show these processes were followed here. Mutual has provided only brief detials about the 
information it gathered before approving the last loan. There is no material evidence that it 
did any checks before the other loans. Although I accept, given that the agent would have 
been in contact with Mrs D, that it would have made some enquiries before lending. 
And, its reasonable to say that Mutual didnt adhere to its policy, if it has one, of a low and 
grow approach. Mrs D borrowed the highest amount, over the shortest term, right at the 
start. So, Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, but 
didnt, are helpful here. Im not able to place any weight on descriptions of what ought to 
have happened.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mrs D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ds case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 3. I say this because:
Mrs D had been indebted to Mutual for around three years. The loans were intended 
to run for around two years, so Mutual could have expected a longer-term 
relationship. But Mrs D hadnt repaid loan 2, so her overall indebtedness hadnt really 
decreased over this this period. And Mrs D was making a commitment for a further 
two years. 
So, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a 
loan is taken and repaid, Mrs D looks likely to be remaining in debt over a longer 
period. I think taking out these longer-term high cost loans, over this period, is a 
strong indicator that Mrs D was starting to struggle financially.
Mrs Ds first loan was for £1,000, as were loans 2 and 3. So, loan 3 was the latest in 
a line of borrowing of relatively high yearly amounts. At this point, again. Mutual 
ought to have known that Mrs D was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter-term 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
Given the factors above, Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
that Mrs Ds indebtedness was now unsustainable. 
Right from the start Mrs D was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
an earlier one, or when she hadnt repaid her existing loan. So, there wasnt an 
appreciable time when Mrs D wasnt in debt to Mutual. 
I appreciate what Mutual has said about all her loans being repaid before loan 4 was 
started. And that this loan was for a smaller amount. But Mrs D had now been 
borrowing for over five years at this time. And shed taken not far short of four years 
to repay loan 2. Again, the fact that she needed to borrow again, for a further year, 
clearly indicates to me she was struggling to repay this lending. 
Mrs D didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 5 was 
taken over six years after Mrs Ds first. So, the harmful pattern I think was 
established from loan 3 continued. Mrs D had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Mutual over a very long time.I think that Mrs D lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 5 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt, and cant, be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs D from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs D may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs D would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs D loans 3 to 5.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs D towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual may  if Mutual choose to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal 
which Mutual has written-off.
D) Mutual should pay any remaining refund to Mrs D. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for Mutual to pursue 
this further.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Ds borrowing for loans 3 to 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ds credit file. If 
Mutual has sold any of the loans Mutual should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman