DRN-4043819
The complaint
Mr B and Mr B are unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance PLC trading as Navigators & 
General [Zurich] handled the renewal of their marine insurance policy and they say it 
caused the cover to lapse. 
What happened
Mr B has led the complaint with this Service on behalf of himself and his father, and so Ill 
mainly refer to him throughout. The background to this complaint is well known to the parties 
so Ive included a summary here. 
Mr B owns a boat insured under a marine insurance policy underwritten by Zurich. In 
June 2022 following the policy renewal, it became apparent the policy had lapsed 
and cover was no longer in place.
Mr B complained and Zurich issued a final response. It explained it had sent renewal 
documents to Mr Bs father and he said he would be sending a cheque in payment of 
the renewal. This was never received and so the policy didnt renew and the cover 
lapsed. 
Mr B said he should have received an email about the renewal as a back-up in case 
something went wrong. Zurich explained the main contact on the policy had been 
changed to Mr Bs father after he got in contact with Zurich in connection with a 
previous policy renewal. It apologised for the confusion and paid Mr B £100. 
Mr B raised a complaint with this Service which our Investigator didnt uphold. He 
was satisfied Zurich had sent two reminders to Mr Bs father and these had been 
received by him as it prompted him to contact Zurich and confirm hed be sending a 
cheque. And while this cheque wasnt received by Zurich and so the policy lapsed, 
overall, he was satisfied Zurich had fulfilled its renewal obligations.
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux 
of the complaint and might not comment on everything the parties have said but I can 
confirm I have considered everything even where I dont reference it specifically. 
Under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), Zurich is required to 
provide details of the renewal of a policy in good time before the renewal, in writing or 
in another durable medium.
The policy was due to renew on 11 June 2022. Zurich has provided a copy of the 
renewal invitation letter it sent Mr Bs father on 23 April 2022 which confirms this 
date. It also provides details of the cover for the forthcoming year and contains a 
warning theres no period of grace on the policy and so the premium will need to be 
paid at least five days before the renewal date.
Zurich has also provided a copy of the renewal invitation reminder it sent Mr Bs 
father on 9 June 2022, two days before the policy was due to renew. It contains the 
same information and warning. Zurich has confirmed Mr Bs father said he would be 
sending a cheque for the required premium.
I know Mr B doesnt believe Zurich sent the June 2022 reminder at the time as he 
says a copy of this was only received in March 2023. But, Ive seen nothing which 
persuades me it wasnt sent and I cant hold Zurich responsible for issues with the 
delivery of post. Given Mr Bs fathers confirmation hed be sending a cheque, Im 
satisfied, on balance, he more likely than not did receive the renewal invitation sent 
by Zurich. 
Zurich checked twice and has confirmed it didnt receive payment of the renewal 
premium so the policy lapsed. Zurich isnt required to issue further reminders or 
chase up policyholders if payment isnt received for renewal. Indeed, many will 
decide to take out insurance through other providers so will choose not to renew their 
existing policy even if they first indicated they might. 
I acknowledge Zurich changed the main email contact on the policy to Mr Bs father 
without referring to Mr B. It says it did this automatically after his father got in contact 
about policy renewal in a prior year. While I recognise Mr B was unhappy with this, 
Im not persuaded it was the main reason the policy lapsed for reasons Ive explained 
above. Im satisfied the £100 Zurich has paid Mr B is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Zurich has met its obligations to provide details of the renewal 
terms in good time and in writing so I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman