DRN-1956076
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax put a block on his account.
What happened
The problem happened when Mr R was trying to make a £5,000 transfer using his internet 
banking. Halifax didnt let the transfer go through so Mr R called them to discuss it. During 
the telephone call Halifax asked questions about the transfer. They werent happy with the 
responses so to stop any potential fraud they put a block on the account. 
In order to remove the block Mr R had to attend a branch of Halifax with identification 
documents. Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained. 
Halifax said they acted with the best of intentions when putting a block on the account, but 
also acknowledged the frustration that caused. Mr R was unsatisfied with the response so 
brought his complaint to our service wanting a formal apology as well as compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He also acknowledged the frustration of 
having to go into a branch, but thought it was reasonable of Halifax to put on block on the 
account when they werent satisfied the transaction was genuine. Mr R didnt agree so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Measures such as asking questions about unusual transfers are in place to prevent fraud. 
Halifax are free to set their own policy about what questions they ask, and the actions they 
take if theyre unhappy with any of the information given. These measures may sometimes 
cause inconvenience, but they are in place to protect customers and prevent loss of funds to 
fraud.
Mr R did have some inconvenience as the transfer was stopped, and he had to take 
identification documents to a branch to have the stop on his account removed. 
To put things right Mr R would like an apology and compensation. 
In their response to Mr R Halifax apologised for any upset and inconvenience as well as 
acknowledging his frustration with the security procedures. 
In order to consider any compensation, Id need to be persuaded that Halifax made mistakes 
in either stopping the transfer, or when placing a block on the account. But looking at what 
happened I dont think thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account say that Halifax can stop any payment where 
they reasonably think it necessary to do so. The list of reasons for doing so include if a 
transaction is unusual compared to normal account usage or for various reasons of security. 
I think here they did have reason as the transfer was an unusual transaction on the account. 
As a security measure Halifax are also allowed to put a block on an account if they have 
security concerns. I think here they did have concerns as they were unhappy with the 
information given by Mr R. So Im happy Halifax followed their procedures and the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Of course just following procedures isnt always enough. I must also think about whether 
Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in their actions. Having looked at what happened I think 
they did. 
Halifax had genuine concerns about the transfer. When speaking to Mr R Halifax asked 
questions about the transfer that werent answered, so they put a block on the account. I can 
understand Mr Rs want for privacy and not to disclose information, but Halifax were asking 
the questions to prevent fraud on the account. After Halifax put a block on the account Mr R 
volunteered more information. But by then it was too late as the block had been put on and, 
for anti-fraud security measures, it could only be taken off by Mr R going to a branch with 
identification documents.
Its clear now that the transfer was genuine, and of course Mr R knew that all along, but 
Halifax didnt know that at the time. Halifax followed their security procedures for when there 
are concerns about fraud, and took reasonable steps to protect Mr Rs account.
Mr R also has concerns about how his complaint was handled however I havent seen any 
evidence that Halifax acted unprofessionally. I know Mr H was upset about what happened 
but Im happy that Halifax dealt with him and his complaint as I expect they should.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly and reasonable when 
stopping the transfer and putting a block on the account. Thats not to say Mr R wasnt put to 
some inconvenience; he was. But the amount of inconvenience is small compared to what 
might have happened had the transfer not been genuine.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman