DRN-4430905
The complaint
Miss I complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) provided her with 
car finance that she couldnt afford to repay. She believes BMWFS acted irresponsibly in 
approving the finance.
Background to this decision
I recently issued my provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint 
and my intended conclusions on how I was minded to resolve the dispute between Miss I 
and BMWFS. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to 
make in response, and I will address their responses later in this decision.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss I entered into a hire-purchase agreement with BMWFS to get a car 
from E, a dealer. A different company M acted in a credit broking capacity to arrange the 
finance. At around the same time, she also entered into a finance agreement with a different 
provider to acquire another car, which has been the subject of a separate complaint to us.
As I understand it, Miss I had agreed with other parties (Ill call them B) to acquire the cars 
in her name, and that B would then sub-lease the cars to someone else. Within a year the 
arrangements had unravelled, and after the car was impounded by the police BMWFS 
terminated the agreement and took possession of the car it had financed.
BMWFS began initial legal action against Miss I to recover the balance owed under the 
agreement, and she responded disputing liability. According to BMWFSs file notes, Miss Is 
response was founded on (among other things) her having been the victim of a scam and on 
BMWFSs failure to undertake appropriate checks when it agreed to the finance. As I 
understand it there are no current legal proceedings ongoing, notwithstanding the 
exchanges between BMWFS and Miss Is respective solicitors.
Miss I complained to BMWFS about her having been the victim of a scam and her 
dissatisfaction with the steps BMWFS took to undertake appropriate checks when it agreed 
to the finance.
In response BMWFS said:
it would have assessed Miss Is affordability and creditworthiness using an 
automated process that was a combination of its bespoke credit scoring criteria, 
internal policies, and data from credit reference agencies
its checks looked at the following key pieces of information:
Customers credit score
Payments to other lenders including any mortgage
Experians Consumer Indebtedness Index
Payday loan usage
Credit Card Utilisation
Customer Age
Customer Employment Status; and
Proposed Monthly Payment
the information received confirmed Miss I was able to repay the credit without undue 
difficulty. It wouldnt have lent if it was not deemed to be in Miss Is best interest
the application hadnt triggered the safeguards it had in place to refer for a manual 
underwriting review
all of the payments due under the agreement had been paid on time and in full, 
without any suggestion of financial difficulty
Miss I remained dissatisfied with BMWFSs response and referred her concerns to us. Our 
investigator wasnt persuaded BMWFS had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the lending. The total amount of credit and the amount of the monthly 
payment should have suggested to BMWFS that it should have sought further information in 
relation to Miss Is ability to afford and sustain the credit.
However, the investigator considered that even if BMWFS had undertaken these further 
checks, the payments due would have been within what he calculated to be Miss Is then 
monthly disposable income. He didnt think it appropriate to uphold the complaint about 
BMWFSs lending decision. He did remind BMWFS that it was under an obligation to 
demonstrate forbearance in light of Miss Is current financial situation.
Miss I didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. She submitted further evidence in 
respect of her monthly income and expenditure, which she felt demonstrated that approving 
the credit had caused her financial hardship. Shes asked for this review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making her complaint, Miss I told BMWFS of the circumstances she was in when she 
entered into the agreement, and the factors that led her to do so. One of the concerns she 
expressed was that she had been the victim of a scam. I dont know that the available 
evidence enables me to go quite so far; as I understand it, Miss I was aware of at least some 
key details of how the sub-leasing arrangement would work and that the credit was being 
taken out in her name. She says she did this in order to supplement her income.
I can accept Miss I perhaps entered into the contract without a full understanding of the 
implications of doing so, and  on the face of it  appears to have been a potentially 
vulnerable customer. BMWFSs file notes from as early as July 2020 indicate its awareness 
of what Miss I told it. However, there is no reference to this aspect of her complaint in 
BMWFSs response.
I find this disappointing. Even if BMWFS was unaware of Miss Is potential vulnerability when 
it received the hire-purchase application, this wasnt the case by July 2020. Im conscious 
that BMWFS did take some steps that suggest it was considering Miss Is circumstances. 
While it initiated legal action, it has thus far taken a lenient approach to pursuing the debt 
that arose following possession of the car. But I dont think that means BMWFS has 
necessarily treated Miss I fairly.For that to be the case, I would expect to see some indication that BMWFS looked into the 
circumstances Miss I described surrounding her entry into the agreement. For example, 
Miss I says she did not herself complete the hire-purchase application. She says she passed 
on her details via a messaging app and that B was the party who undertook the dealings 
with E and M. BMWFS hasnt submitted anything that might suggest it made further 
enquiries into those arrangements, or that it contacted M to establish what might be 
important facts about the execution of the deal.
I also find cause for concern in some of the comments in BMWFSs response to Miss Is 
complaint. BMWFS said that all of the payments due were made in full and on time. That 
statement isnt borne out by BMWFSs agreement ledger (the firms record of payments due 
and made under the agreement). That record shows that only the first six payments were 
made under a five-year agreement. The payments failed some time before the police 
became involved. I cant accept BMWFSs contention that the payments were sustained as 
evidence that the agreement was affordable.
In addition, BMWFS set out the factors it had taken into account when undertaking a 
creditworthiness and affordability assessment. What stands out immediately to me about 
those factors is the lack of any reference to Miss Is income or any expenditure she had that 
wasnt credit-related.
There are regulatory standards in place to say the sort of assessment a lender should carry 
out when considering whether to approve a finance application. Those standards are set out 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are included in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC)1. In light of the circumstances of this complaint and some of the points 
Miss I and BMWFS have made, I think it would be useful to look at those provisions.
In simple terms, when carrying out an assessment a credit provider needs to consider two 
risks. The credit risk (the risk to the credit provider that the customer wont make payments 
when they fall due) and the affordability risk (the risk to the customer that they wont be able 
to make the payments).
The credit risk is generally assessed by reference to the customers past and current record 
of taking on and servicing credit arrangements. There doesnt appear to be any question 
here that BMWFS conducted such an assessment, or to my mind that the assessment was 
sufficiently thorough. Ive seen a copy of the credit check BMWFS carried out on Miss I.
Theres nothing sufficiently significant there that suggests to me BMWFS ought to have had 
cause for concern over Miss Is payment history. There are some indications that she had in 
recent months begun to acquire a number of credit accounts. That might have prompted 
further enquiry, but at the time these accounts were being serviced on time and I can see 
why BMWFS concluded that additional checks werent necessary.
The key issue here of course is the affordability risk. This requires that BMWFS consider 
Miss Is ability to make payments as they fall due over the life of the agreement2.The 
regulations say that it can do so using a customers income, savings or other assets, and/or 
income received by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be 
available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement.
BMWFSs final response makes no reference to any assessment of Miss Is income. Nor 
does it appear in the underwriting information BMWFS has submitted to us in support of its 
1 The full CONC sourcebook can be found in the FCA Handbook, available on the FCAs website
2 see CONC 5.2A.12Rlending decision. And income assessment isnt the only consideration. The regulations also 
require that payments can be met without failing to make any other payment the customer 
has a contractual or statutory obligation to make; and without the payments having a 
significant adverse impact on their financial situation. That requires that the lender has 
regard not just for the customers income but also their expenditure.
The total amount payable under the hire-purchase agreement was more than £46,700. The 
monthly payments due were £761.77, over five years. Given this, I dont think BMWFS could 
reasonably seek to suggest it was obvious that Miss I was able to make repayments in line 
with the above requirements such that it would render the steps in CONC 5.2A.15R 
disproportionate. Those steps require BMWFS to take reasonable steps to determine 
Miss Is income and take account of it. As Ive already noted, theres nothing to indicate it did 
so.
Further, CONC 5.2A.17R requires BMWFS to take reasonable steps to determine (and take 
account of) Miss Is non-discretionary expenditure. Non-discretionary expenditure includes 
payments needed to meet priority debts (such as mortgage payments, rent or lending 
secured by a charge on certain goods, council tax, and utility bills) and other essential living 
expenses and other expenditure which it is hard to reduce to give a basic quality of life3.
I can see that BMWFS set out the expenditure it did take into account, which was that it 
could ascertain from the checks it did do. But Im minded to find those checks were 
inadequate for the purpose of meeting the requirement in CONC 5.2A.17R.
Like the investigator, I dont think BMWFS has demonstrated it did enough in either respect 
to be able to say that it conducted a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
affordability risk in its overall creditworthiness assessment. The checks and assessment 
BMWFS carried out did not ensure Miss I could meet the payments without them having a 
significant adverse impact on her financial situation, including failing to make other payments 
she was obliged to make.
That isnt in itself enough to say the payments werent affordable. It simply changes the 
question to whether proportionate checks would have shown they werent affordable. But 
having reviewed Miss Is bank statements and other information weve been able to obtain 
for the material time (and which I consider would have formed part of a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment carried out by BMWFS), Im not satisfied that this was the case. 
The hire-purchase monthly payments were £761.77. Based on the income and expenditure 
Ive seen for Miss I, that level of payment wasnt likely to have been sustainable.
At the time she entered into the hire-purchase agreement, Miss Is income from the two jobs 
she held averaged around £2,680. She had existing credit commitments including a 
mortgage, loans and other credit. Her monthly payments for these totalled around £1,265.
Her other non-discretionary expenditure included utility bills, council tax and similar costs 
that came to another £470. While that gives a potential disposable income of some £945, a 
true figure should take into account that out of that remaining sum, Miss I would need to buy 
essentials such as food and clothing, not to mention the costs associated with running the 
car she was acquiring under the agreement, such as tax, fuel and insurance.
I should add that Ive thought about the fact that Miss I was expecting to receive such 
income from the arrangements she had with B; indeed, her submissions state that this was 
her purpose in entering into the agreements in the first place. As previously noted, CONC 
does say that a firm can also take account of income received by the customer jointly with 
3 see guidance at CONC 5.2A.18Ganother person or income received by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect 
such income to be available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement4.
However, the hire-purchase agreement issued by BMWFS expressly excluded the sub- 
leasing arrangements that would have provided that income. So any decision to take such 
income into account when approving the agreement would have been unreasonable.
Having seen evidence of Miss Is financial circumstances as I consider BMWFS ought to 
have obtained in this case, I consider the repayments under the hire-purchase agreement 
would have had a significant adverse impact on her financial situation, contrary to relevant 
CONC provisions. In addition, had BMWFS undertaken reasonable and proportionate steps 
to look further into the application, its quite possible that it would have established the true 
nature of the underlying arrangements and decided not to lend at all. As such, Im currently 
minded to uphold her complaint.
Putting things right
Im conscious of the fact this matter has been ongoing since BMWFS was first alerted to the 
situation in July 2020, and that this must have been the source of much concern and distress 
to Miss I. I must also take into account that much of the distress that she has experienced is 
a consequence of entering into the arrangements with B, rather than being caused to her by 
BMWFS. That said, I do think BMWFS could have handled matters overall rather better than 
it has and that has contributed towards Miss Is upset. I propose to require BMWFS to pay 
her £200 in recognition of this.
In respect of the outstanding account balance, I understand this is currently around £18,100. 
To my mind its appropriate to strike a balance between recognising BMWFS shouldnt have 
provided the credit to Miss I and the fact that Miss I did have some understanding and 
intention of the arrangements she was entering into, albeit her use of it wasnt to the extent 
she anticipated. I also accept Miss I might not view this in quite the same way.
Im currently minded to require that BMWFS limits the amount it can recover from Miss I 
under the credit agreement to no more than £4,500 (to include any interest accrued or that 
would otherwise have accrued in future). In doing so, BMWFS should ensure it takes 
reasonable steps to agree a suitable and affordable repayment schedule with Miss I over a 
term that takes account of her current financial position.
I dont propose to make any direction at this stage in relation to the information BMWFS has 
recorded on Miss Is credit file in relation to the account, other than that the outstanding 
balance should be amended to reflect the lower sum due.
Responses to my provisional decision
BMWFS advised that didnt accept my intended conclusions and said it wished to make 
further submissions, which were of a commercially sensitive nature. Although I have 
provided BMWFS with details of how it can supply its submissions by secure message 
transmission and extended the response date, it hasnt provided anything further.
Miss I also responded with additional information about the circumstances leading up to the 
finance arrangement and correspondence from her former legal representative. In summary, 
Miss I believes that BMWFS should have exercised some form of control over M as the 
credit broker and shouldve insisted that M supply supporting documents about her finances.
4 see CONC 5.2A.12(2)RShe maintained that she was unaware she was entering into a personal credit agreement, 
having been led to believe by B that the arrangements were standard business practice. 
Miss I believes she shouldnt have to pay anything and that her credit record should be clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Miss I has said, and I do understand her position. She clearly feels that 
she shouldnt be liable for any of the outstanding debt. As Ive already noted, she does 
appear to have been in a vulnerable position and accepted what B told her as fact. However, 
her submissions arent in any material respects different from the arguments I considered 
and addressed in my provisional decision. Whether BMWFS was in a position to exercise 
control over M is questionable.
As I understand it, M was an independent company other than the car dealer. Given the way 
the arrangements were structured I dont think theres enough to indicate the existence of an 
agent/principal relationship for the purpose of arranging the finance. And in any event, given 
that Ive already found that BMWFS ought to have done more to ensure it properly assessed 
Miss Is ability to make the payments and the impact they would have on her financial 
position, I dont believe its necessary for me to look further into this aspect.
Nothing Miss I has said in her response gives me reason to change my provisional findings 
or the proposed outcome, and in the absence of further submissions from BMWFS Im 
satisfied its appropriate for me to adopt my provisional conclusions in full in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must, 
within 28 days of receiving Miss Is acceptance, take the following steps:
1. limit the amount it can recover from Miss I under the credit agreement to no more 
than £4,500 (to include any interest accrued or that would otherwise have accrued in 
future), and amend the outstanding balance on her credit file accordingly
2. makes reasonable efforts to engage with Miss I to agree a suitable and affordable 
repayment schedule for the balance in 1. over a term that takes account of her 
current financial position
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman