DRN-3454312
The complaint
Mr K complains that due to failings on PrimaryBid Limiteds part he was unable to withdraw 
an application to buy shares in an Initial Public Offering (IPO).
In order to put matters right Mr K wants PrimaryBid to let him have my money back and 
some form of compensation for putting me through this highly stressful ordeal when it has 
been zero faults of my own.
What happened
I understand that in March 2021, Mr K received an offer to apply for shares in an IPO.   Mr K 
took up the offer and applied for £1,000 worth of shares.
In the information about the IPO, it set out that if Mr K wanted to withdraw his application the 
deadline was 5:59pm on 30 March 2021.
Mr K says that he attempted to withdraw his application before the deadline on 30 March 
2021 but was unable to find a link that would allow him to cancel his application on the 
PrimaryBid website. Mr K says that he logged into my PrimaryBid account and no option 
to cancel or withdraw. They have no number to call or speak to anyone. Their chatbot was 
not responding even though I waited several hours to be connected to someone. I emailed 
using their contact form for which you have no acknowledgement of receipt to confirm you 
actually tried to contact them.
Mr K says he was not able to contact PrimaryBid until 31 March 2021, after the deadline for 
withdrawing his application for shares in the IPO had passed. 
Mr K complained to PrimaryBid about the difficulty he had experienced. He said he felt the 
withdrawal process was highly flawed. He also complained about the customer service he 
received when he contacted it after the deadline for withdrawing his application.
PrimaryBid did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said that it did not have any record of Mr K 
contacting it to withdraw his application before the deadline for withdrawing from the offer.
Mr K was not satisfied with PrimaryBids response and referred his complaint to this service. 
He said he felt PrimaryBid had not addressed why the process for withdrawing an 
application was via an app for the business, rather than on PrimaryBids website. Mr K also 
explained that he had tried to contact PrimaryBid on 30 March 2021, before the deadline to 
withdraw his application, but had been unable to get in touch with an agent that day.
Having carefully considered Mr Ks complaint our investigator said she didnt think she could 
reasonably uphold it.
She explained that she had asked PrimaryBid to detail the withdrawal process. She said that 
having reviewed the process she thought it could have been clearer, but she explained that 
in order to uphold Mr Ks complaint she would need to be satisfied that he had tried to 
withdraw his application before the deadline  and had been prevented from doing so due to 
the unclear information on the process.
Based on the information she had been provided with, the investigator said she couldnt 
safely say that Mr K had tried to withdraw his application before the deadline on 30 March 
2021. In reaching this view she said she had reviewed the customer activity logs PrimaryBid 
had supplied for the accounts associated with two email addresses Mr K used. She said that 
the customer activity logs showed things such as page clicks on their website, the webpage 
for the IPO, email opens, chat log activity and emails sent and/or received.
She noted that between 22 March 2021 and 31 March 2021 there was activity recorded on 
several days. However, there was no activity recorded for 30 March 2021, such as emails 
being sent or received, page clicks or email opens. 
In view of this she said she couldnt reasonably find that Mr K had tried to withdraw his 
application before the deadline on 30 March 2021.
In relation to the customer service Mr K received when he contacted PrimaryBid after the 
deadline to withdraw his application, she said she felt PrimaryBid could have provided Mr K 
with a better explanation of the withdrawal process. But as the deadline had already passed, 
she said she didnt think this would have made a difference to the outcome of Mr Ks 
complaint. She noted PrimaryBid had responded promptly to Mr Ks complaint and had 
acknowledged his frustration with the process. 
She also noted the agent had misspelt Mr Ks name and she said she could appreciate this 
had caused Mr K upset. But she said it appeared this was a genuine mistake on the agents 
part, and they had apologised as soon as Mr K pointed out the mistake.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He said he considered himself to be vastly 
computer literate but had not been able to withdraw his application due to what he felt was a 
very convoluted customer journey to do so. Mr K set out in detail why he felt this was the 
case. He also set out why he felt the customer support offered by PrimaryBid was insufficient 
to meet the likely customer demand.
In addition, Mr K said he didnt see why the investigator felt it was relevant to his complaint 
whether PrimaryBid had evidence that he had tried to contact it on 30 March 2021. He said, 
a visit to a website does not constitute proof of any intentions or actions. He also said he 
felt it was not reasonable for our investigator to ask if he was able to provide anything to 
show he had contacted PrimaryBid on 30 March 2021. 
He reiterated that he had tried to withdraw his application on 30 March 2021 and had tried to 
contact PrimaryBid when he wasnt able to find the appropriate link to withdraw his 
application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same view as our investigator, and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why.
Process for withdrawing an applicationI have carefully considered all that Mr K has said and provided about the process to 
withdraw his application for the IPO. It is not in dispute that PrimaryBid could have done 
more to make the process clearer. 
However, I must also take into account that PrimaryBid has provided information to show 
that other applicants were able to withdraw their applications before the deadline. In view of 
this I cant reasonably find that the process was such that it was not possible for an applicant 
to withdraw their application.
That said, this service determines complaints on their individual merits, and I am not in a 
position to carry out a detailed audit of the withdrawal process. As I have set out below, if 
Mr K remains of the view that the process for withdrawing an application was unduly 
complicated or unfair to consumers, he may wish to raise this with the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Contact records for 30 March 2021
When Mr K referred his complaint to this service he said:
I decided the day before the withdrawal deadline to cancel my application. The issue was 
there was no clear way of cancelling your bid. I logged into my PrimaryBid account and 
no option to cancel or withdraw. They have no number to call or speak to anyone. Their 
chatbot was not responding even though I waited several hours to be connected to 
someone. I emailed using their contact form for which you have no acknowledgement of 
receipt to confirm you actually tried to contact them. 
(bold is my emphasis)
Having reviewed the contact information that PrimaryBid has provided for both the email 
addresses that Mr K used, there is nothing to show or suggest that Mr K logged on to his 
PrimaryBid account on 30 March 2021, and there is no record of any page clicks.
I note that in more recent correspondence with this service Mr K has said:
The fact you can only prove a visit based on me being logged into my Primary Bid account 
and then using their contact page, which I would have done on my laptop but I would have 
not logged in on my mobile or partners device I'm sure. This is all null and void surely.
Because they don't have those logs does not mean they can prove I did or didn't visit the 
site. I even run VPNs on my devices so not even sure which country would have logged 
anyway.
I appreciate that Mr K now says he may not have logged onto his PrimaryBid account when 
he tried to contact it on 30 March 2021, but I must take into account that on 31 March 2021, 
(in an email to PrimaryBid) he said he had logged onto his account on 30 March 2021. 
In view of the submission Mr K made to PrimaryBid on 31 March 2021, the day after the 
deadline for withdrawing his application for the IPO, I cant safely agree with Mr Ks more 
recent recollection that he may have tried to contact PrimaryBid on 30 March 2021, without 
logging into his account. And I think that if Mr K had logged onto his PrimaryBid account on 
30 March 2021, there would be a record of this in the customer activity logs PrimaryBid has 
provided to this service.
Mr K has said he feels that PrimaryBid may have omitted contact information for 30 March 
2021, in the information it has provided to this service. I appreciate Mr Ks view, but based 
on the records I have seen, there is nothing to suggest that any information is missing or has 
not been provided. I have reached this view as the records show that Mr K did log onto his PrimaryBid account a number of times between 22 March 2021 and 31 March 2021, but 
there is no record of Mr K doing so on 30 March 2021.
As Mr K has not been able to provide this service with anything to support his position that 
he logged onto his PrimaryBid account and, when he wasnt able to find a link to withdraw 
his application, he then emailed it and tried to use its chatbot three or four times, I cant 
reasonably find that he did try to contact PrimaryBid on 30 March 2021. 
As Mr K has rightly noted, even if there was evidence to support his recollection that he 
logged onto his PrimaryBid account on 30 March 2021, this would not show conclusively that 
he had intended to withdraw his application.
But, in the absence of anything to show that Mr K did try to either withdraw his application, or 
contact PrimaryBid when he was unable to find the link to withdraw before the deadline, I 
cant reasonably require PrimaryBid to compensate Mr K for any loss he has suffered. 
I note that Mr K has said he has pursued this complaint as he feels:
This is a matter of principle, that I am being penalised for a companys gross negligence, 
systems and customer service and your organisation is allowing them to quite frankly, get 
away with it.
The role of this service is to determine complaints based on their individual merits. We do 
not have the power to fine a business or order it to change its processes. That is the role of 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If Mr K remains of the view 
that the process for withdrawing an application was unduly complicated or unfair to 
consumers, he may wish to raise this issue with the FCA.
As I set out above, it is not in dispute that the process for withdrawing an application could 
have been clearer. But in order to uphold Mr Ks complaint it is not enough for me to accept 
that the process could have been clearer. I would also need to be satisfied that Mr K did try 
to withdraw his application and was unable to do so due to the unclear process. 
Based on the information available, I cannot safely find that Mr K logged into my PrimaryBid 
account on 30 March 2021. As this is the case, regardless of whether the withdrawal 
process could have been clearer, I cannot reasonably uphold Mr Ks complaint as I cannot 
safely find that he was prevented from withdrawing his application because he could not find 
an option to cancel or withdraw via his PrimaryBid account.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr K was hoping for. I am required to be fair to 
both parties and in the absence of anything to show that Mr K did try to withdraw his 
application or to contact PrimaryBid on 30 March 2021, I cannot safely uphold this complaint.
If Mr K remains unhappy with my decision he is, of course, free to pursue this matter in the 
courts and I note that Mr K has indicated that he intends to do so if his complaint is not 
upheld.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman