DRN-1854999
The complaint
Mr Ks unhappy with the actions Barclays Bank UK PLC took when he fell victim to a banking 
payment scam. Mr K transferred £2,878 to the scammer in a single payment.
What happened
At around 13:17 on 19 March 2019 Mr K got a call from someone claiming to be from 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). The caller said he hadnt paid his taxes and owed money. 
The caller convinced Mr K they were genuine and, via online banking, he made a payment of 
£2,878 to the scammers account.   
Just after making the transfer, Mr K began to doubt that the caller was genuine. He spoke to 
his accountant who spoke to HMRC before Mr K called Barclays to report the incident while 
he was talking to the scammer on another phone line. That was at around 14:00. Barclays 
contacted the beneficiary bank at 14:22 to see if any of Mr Ks money could be recovered 
but it eventually confirmed no funds remained in the scammers account. Barclays said it 
was unable to assist him further in reclaiming his funds since hed willingly transferred the 
money.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They believed Barclays had 
acted fairly in allowing the payment to go through and that it did what it could to help him 
recover the money once it became aware of what had happened. 
Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators findings. He felt Barclays had failed to protect his 
interests and to prevent fraud. He also wondered whether his account had been breached in 
some way. So, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr K when he made the payment of £2,878 to a scammer, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the payment was particularly suspicious or 
unusual enough to say Barclays ought to have had concerns that Mr K was being scammed. 
The amount Mr K transferred wasnt particularly unusual for him and he accepts he made it. 
Having reviewed his account activity in the weeks and months leading up to the transaction, 
I dont think it was sufficiently suspicious to conclude Barclays ought to have identified that it 
may be potentially fraudulent. 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by following the 
instructions Mr K gave and sending the money.
Mr Ks queried whether Barclays could have stopped the payment when he told it what had 
happened. However, he accepts hed already made the payment by the time he notified 
Barclays. A feature of the method of payment Mr K chose is that payments are made very 
quickly. So, Im satisfied there was little Barclays could have done even at that stage. 
When Mr K told Barclays that hed been scammed the bank acted quickly in that it contacted 
the beneficiary bank within around 20 minutes to see if any of his money could be recovered. 
Unfortunately, by that time, the beneficiary bank confirmed Mr Ks money had gone. Its not 
unusual in scams like this for the scammers to withdraw funds very quickly. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest any funds would have been recoverable had Barclays acted 
sooner.
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and recover the money was all 
Barclays could do. 
I recognise that some of Barclays updates to Mr K werent entirely accurate or as clear as 
they could have been. For example, I see it wrote to him on 22 March 2019 saying it would 
be writing to the beneficiary bank for it to investigate and attempt to recover his funds. As 
Ive said, Barclays had already contacted the beneficiary bank by that time. Indeed, the 
beneficiary bank had already replied by that time too. So, the letter could have been more 
informative. As unhelpful as that was, I dont think these failings caused Mr K any loss. 
Its unfortunate that Mr Ks lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very upsetting for him. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays should have done more to prevent him losing his money. I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for Mr K having fallen victim to a scam, and I think it acted quickly once it knew 
what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to compensate Mr K for 
his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman