DRN-3037488
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a missed departure claim he
made on his travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr M had booked a holiday abroad and departed in December 2018. He was due to fly to a
country Ill call S, and he was then due to take a coach onto a country Ill call F where he
was staying. However, his outward bound flight arrived in S around an hour late. This meant
that Mr M missed his onward coach trip to F. As there wasnt another coach available that
day, Mr M had to stay overnight in S and take a coach to F the following day. He made a
claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs associated with missing his original coach
departure and staying in S overnight.
Ageas turned down the claim. It said neither the travel delay nor missed departure sections
of the policy covered Mr Ms circumstances.
Mr M was unhappy with Ageas decision and the way it had dealt with his claim. So he asked
us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. While he accepted S could
be treated as Mr Ms international departure point to F; he didnt think Mr M had missed the
start of his overall booked trip. So he didnt think Mr Ms claim was covered by the policy
terms. He did think Ageas hadnt handled Mr Ms claim as well as it couldve done though, so
he recommended it should pay Mr M £75 compensation.
Ageas agreed with the investigator. Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his detailed
response. His claim met the specific criteria for a claim to be paid. The purpose of insurance
is to protect against circumstances outside a policyholders control. His coach journey from S
to F was a separate trip, which was independent from his flight to S. This separate trip
started in S, so ought to be covered under the missed departure cover provided by the
policy. He felt the investigator had read additional wording into the policy which wasnt there
to misinterpret the policy terms. He felt the investigators conclusions defied logic and
common sense.  
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr Ms claim, although I felt its offer 
to pay Mr M £75 compensation was fair. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Ageas handled
his claim fairly.
Ive first carefully considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Ms contract
with Ageas. Mr M feels that his claim should be settled under the missed departure section
of the policy, so Ive turned to consider what this section covers. This policy says:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for necessary travel and
accommodation expenses required to reach your booked destination, if you miss your
booked departure due to:
1. The vehicle you are in travelling in to reach your international departure point
breaking down or being involved in an accident; or
2. An accident or breakdown happening ahead of you on a public road which
causes an unexpected delay to the vehicle in which you are travelling;
3. The public transport you are using to reach your international departure point being
delayed, resulting in you arriving too late to commence your booked trip.
Ageas has defined what it means by both public transport and trip within the policy
wording. Public transport is defined as: airline, train, bus, coach, or ferry services, operating
to a published timetable on which you are a fare-paying passenger or a tour operator's own
transport service, or taxi, to join your booked travel itinerary. 
A trip is defined as: a journey starting and ending in your home country within the 
geographical area specified on your certificate of insurance during the period of insurance.
In this case, Mr M missed his coach connection from S to F due to the late arrival of his
outbound flight from the UK. I accept that Mr Ms flight from the UK to S met the policy
definition of public transport. And I also accept that given his pre-booked coach connection
was due to take him from one country, S, to another, F, the airport in S effectively then ought
to be treated as an international departure point.
However, I think the policy term is clear that missed departure cover only applies if the late
arrival of public transport results in a policyholder arriving too late to start their booked trip.
Ageas has made it clear that it considers a trip to begin and end in a policyholders home
country. This means then that Mr Ms booked trip began when he left his home to catch his
flight from the UK to S and ended when he returned to the UK. So on a strict interpretation of
the policy terms, Mr Ms claim isnt covered.
I can depart from a strict application of the contractual terms if I feel it produces an unfair
result. In some circumstances, I might consider that its unfair for an insurer not to cover
onward connecting journeys to a policyholders destination. But in this case, I think theres
another term in the policy which would result in Mr Ms claim not being covered. The missed
departure section also includes a list of specific things a policyholder isnt covered for. One
of these says:
Claims where you have not allowed sufficient time to get to your international departure
point to catch the booked public transport.
In this case, Mr M has told us that the coach from S to F was scheduled to depart 50
minutes after his planned arrival time into S. In my view, I dont think this could be
considered as sufficient time. I say that because it didnt allow for any real margin of delay in
Mr Ms flight arriving into S, or for any delays at passport control or customs. So I think
Ageas wouldve been entitled to also apply this exclusion to turn down Mr Ms claim.
Ive turned to look at whether Mr Ms claim is covered by any other section of the policy. But
having done so, I dont think the circumstances fall within any of the cover provided by the
policy. I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that travel insurance is designed to protect
policyholders against events which are outside of their control. But it doesnt cover
every eventuality. And I dont think it would be fair here for me to direct Ageas to step away
from the contract and pay Mr Ms claim. So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it wasfair for Ageas to turn the claim down.
Its clear though that Ageas didnt handle the claim as well as it shouldve done. It made
errors in the letters it sent to Mr M and it incorrectly categorised his claim. I can see Mr M
has had to chase things up too to correct these errors. So I agree that Ageas handling of the
claim has caused Mr M unnecessary trouble and upset. And I think its appropriate for Ageas
to pay Mr M compensation to recognise the impact its handling of the claim has had on him.
Having considered everything, I think £75 is fair compensation for errors Ageas made when
it considered Mr Ms claim. Im pleased to see that Ageas agreed to pay this amount.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to take into account.
Ageas didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr D disagreed with my provisional findings. Ive summarised his detailed responses to the 
provisional decision:
I had made-up a new reason to not uphold his complaint, which hadnt been argued 
by Ageas or the investigator and he considered this reason to be ridiculous;
He considered that I was looking for reasons not to uphold the complaint and that I 
hadnt attempted to be impartial;
He considered it was absurd that Id concluded he hadnt left enough time to take the 
coach. It hadnt taken him 50 minutes to disembark the flight  it had taken 10 
minutes. The only reason hed missed the coach was because the flight was late. 
And he said the policy didnt require him to plan in a period of delay to his journey;
He stated that I had misunderstood the policy wording. Thats because he noted that 
the missed departure section stated it didnt cover trips within a policyholders home 
country. So he felt that Ageas definition of trip conflicted with the missed departure 
cover set out in the policy terms. And that therefore, the policy was unclear, meaning 
that it wasnt fair for Ageas to rely on it. He considered this to be a deliberate error on 
my part;
Hed paid for travel insurance and he expected to be covered for delays of this 
nature.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I havent changed my provisional 
decision and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear our role. Were independent and impartial of both parties. 
We weigh up all of the evidence were provided with to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the specific circumstances of a complaint. When considering a complaint about insurance, 
we take account the terms and conditions of the insurance contract, rather than simply the 
terms that either of the parties considers to be relevant to the claim. Id like to reassure Mr M 
that I have considered his complaint impartially, although I understand he doesnt agree with 
my findings.
Next, Ive turned to consider Mr Ms concerns about the clarity of the policy wording. As Ive set out above, Ageas has defined a trip as being a journey which starts and ends in a 
policyholders home country. Both the travel delay and missed departure sections of the 
policy state: This section does not apply to trips within your home country. Mr M therefore 
thinks Ive misinterpreted the relevant policy terms and that they should be read to mean that 
theres no cover for missed or delayed departure for journeys starting and ending in a 
policyholders home country.
I dont agree though and I dont think these terms either conflict with each other or are 
ambiguous. Regardless of whether a trip is taken abroad, or in the UK, it necessarily needs 
to begin and end in a policyholders home country. Some sections of the policy do cover UK 
holidays in certain circumstances. But both the travel delay and missed departure sections 
are intended to cover international trips only. And I think the policy terms make both the 
definition of a trip and the exclusion of travel delay and missed departure cover for domestic 
holidays clear. As Mr Ms holiday was an international one, he was eligible to make both 
missed departure and travel delay claims on the policy, even if such claims werent 
ultimately payable.
As Ive set out, the missed departure section of the policy covers delay to the public 
transport a policyholders using to reach their international departure point, which results in 
them arriving too late to commence their booked trip. It remains the case that as Mr M had 
already flown from the UK to S, the delay in the flight landing didnt prevent him from 
commencing his trip. So his claim simply isnt covered by the terms of the policy.
Its clear Mr M feels strongly that its unreasonable for me to rely on the policy term excluding 
claims where a policyholder has left insufficient time to get to their international departure 
point. I acknowledge this wasnt a point raised by Ageas. But as Ive explained, on a strict 
interpretation of the policy, Mr Ms claim simply isnt covered.  And in deciding whether it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Ageas to depart from a strict application of the 
terms, Ive considered the whole contract and the wider circumstances of the claim. I 
appreciate the flight delay was the most likely cause of Mr M missing his connecting coach. 
But Im still not persuaded that a 50 minute period to land; disembark and proceed through 
passport control (even taking into account the fact that Mr M only had hand luggage) was 
sufficient time to ensure Mr M caught the connecting coach  even if the flight hadnt been 
delayed. 
While the policy doesnt explicitly include a term which requires a policyholder to include a 
margin of delay in their plans, it does include a condition which requires them to takes steps 
to minimise any loss and to act as if theyre not insured. As such then, I think its fair to 
conclude that its a policyholders responsibility to ensure theyve left enough time to make 
their planned connections and to not incur financial loss. 
Overall then, Im still not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for me to tell Ageas 
to step away from the strict contractual terms and pay Mr Ms claim. Thats because strictly, 
the claim isnt covered by the policy terms and conditions and having considered the wider 
circumstances, I dont find it would be fair for me to do so. Im still satisfied though that given 
Ageas has agreed to pay Mr M £75 compensation to recognise the mistakes it made when it 
dealt with his claim; that its fair for it to pay this amount to recognise his frustration and 
upset.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Ageas offer to pay Mr M compensation of £75 is fair and reasonable.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £75.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman