DRN-4307326
The complaint
Mr M complains about the repairs, delays and level of service provided by esure Insurance 
Limited following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to repair his car 
and compensate him for his losses.
What happened
Mr Ms car was taken for repairs following a head-on collision in September 2021. Mr M said 
it took 14 months for esure to repair and return his car and he hired a car himself during this 
time. He has since then had to return the car to the repairer for rectification. He later had the 
car inspected by a garage and this found more faults. Mr M wants his car repaired and 
compensation.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt see that 
esure had explained why the initial repairs had taken so long. And he couldnt see that esure 
had explained why the faults noted on Mr Ms garages report werent claim-related. 
He thought esure should repair the car or pay Mr M so that he could arrange his own repairs 
as outlined in his report. He thought esure should reimburse Mr Ms hire costs, in keeping 
with the policys terms and conditions, with interest. And he thought esure should pay Mr M 
£500 compensation for his trouble and upset. He thought esure should pay the costs of 
maintaining the hire car. But he thought Mr M was responsible for the costs of maintaining 
his own car. 
esure didnt reply to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now more than two years since the accident. And I can understand that Mr M feels 
frustrated with the time it is taking to resolve his claim. I can see that the car was allocated to 
an approved repairer a few days after the accident and an assessment was then completed. 
This said the car was unroadworthy but repairable, but it took four months for the repairs to 
be authorised. 
esure hasnt explained why there was an initial delay. esure hasnt provided any information 
about what then happened with the repairs or why they were further delayed. Mr M wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car, and so he hired a replacement car privately.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. And I can see that in Mr Ms 
policy booklet it is stated:
Our Courtesy car service
A courtesy car is provided whilst your car is being repaired by the recommended repairer as 
part of a valid claim, as long as you have a comprehensive policy which remains in force for 
the duration of repairs. We aim to provide a courtesy car to you within two working days. 
esure didnt provide Mr M with this benefit. So I think it should reasonably reimburse Mr M 
for the hire costs he incurred whilst the car was with the repairer, upon production of 
reasonable evidence of these costs. If Mr M incurred any maintenance costs for the hire car, 
then I think esure should reasonably reimburse these too. And, as Mr M has been without 
his money for some time, then I think esure should add interest to these amounts. 
The car was returned to Mr M in November 2022. But Mr M was unhappy with the repairs. 
From what I can see, esure authorised rectification work and asked for a courtesy car to then 
be provided. But Mr M remained unhappy as the car still had faults. esure then said that it 
was for Mr M to show that further faults were related to the claim. It asked him to provide a 
report from the manufacturer specifically showing this. 
I think Mr M could reasonably expect his car to be fully repaired the first time it was taken for 
repairs, but it wasnt. And esure is obliged to deal with claims promptly and fairly, but I cant 
say that it did this. Our Investigator recommended that esure should pay Mr M £500 
compensation for the impact of the delays and the need for rectification. I think thats in 
keeping with our published guidance, so I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mr M provided a list of needed repairs from his garage. esure wanted Mr M to provide a 
detailed report from a dealers garage connecting the faults to the original claim. But I dont 
think thats fair in the circumstances. Mr M has already provided one report and explained 
that the dealer wont provide a report that esure requires. 
Where theres a dispute over repairs, we think its good practice to instruct an independent 
assessor to inspect the car and then decide whether or not the faults are related to the claim 
or the repairs. But I cant see that esure did this. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that esure dismissed the report from Mr Ms garage. But it didnt explain that it had 
considered this or why the faults listed were unrelated to the claim. So Im not satisfied that 
esure has justified its decision not to pay for these additional repairs. And I think esure 
should now carry out the repairs or pay Mr M the cost of having them carried out at his 
garage. 
Mr M said hed incurred costs maintaining the car whilst he was unable to use it. But I cant 
reasonably ask esure to reimburse these costs as Mr M would have incurred them in any 
case.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Repair Mr Ms car as outlined in his report or pay Mr M the cost of having the car 
repaired at his garage. 
2. Pay Mr M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays in 
his claim and poor repairs. 
3. Reimburse Mr M for the hire costs he incurred whilst his car was taken for repairs (in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions) and any costs incurred in maintaining the 
hire car. It should add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date the costs were incurred to the date of settlement. 
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman