DRN-3468110
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt uphold a claim he made 
to them about the quality of a kitchen installation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in part or in whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
One of the criteria required for a claim to be made under section 75 is that there must be a 
valid debtor, creditor, supplier relationship. The debtor here is Mr M and the creditor who 
paid the supplier of the kitchen equipment/worktops was RBS. But RBS didnt pay the 
installer. That was a separate cash transaction and no part of it was paid by RBS. They 
therefore have no liability under section 75 for any failure of that installation as they have no 
relationship with the installation supplier.
Mr M complains that the worktop joints have expanded and theres a leak on the sink, whilst 
the supplier has offered a refund for the worktops that will need to be removed, its the 
installation costs Mr M is now disputing through his section 75 claim. 
In those circumstances I dont think RBS were unreasonable to reject his claim as they have 
no relationship with the installer. Mr M used the credit card supplied by RBS to pay for the 
supply of the goods and not the installation. Thats explained on the furniture order form 
where its stated the order is supply only and where the installation costs are listed 
separately. His contract with the installer was therefore a separate one and not one that I 
could fairly say RBS had any responsibility for under section 75.
Whilst I dont think RBS have been unreasonable to reject Mr Ms claim he may still have a 
claim against the installer for breach of contract. Thats a matter he will, however; need to 
take up with the installer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman