DRN-3890419
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent her a credit card. She 
says increases to the credit limit were taken out as a result of a coercive relationship. And 
she doesnt think Aqua has treated her fairly in seeking to recover the debt.
What happened
Miss H applied for a credit card with Aqua in November 2018. It assessed her finances and 
agreed to the card with a credit limit of £300. It offered her increases to the credit limit in 
February and again in June 2019, first to £1,550 then to £3,050. Miss H accepted the offers 
and increased her credit limit on both occasions.
Miss H then began to have difficulties in keeping up with the repayments. By the start of the 
coronavirus pandemic Miss H was in arrears having missed payments in January, February 
and March of that year. She then took a payment deferral until August 2020. Although 
Miss H paid off some of the arrears in April 2020, arrears of the equivalent of one months 
minimum payment remained outstanding.
When she took the payment deferral, Aqua told Miss H that she would need to clear the 
arrears by the end of the deferral and also make the next months payment. After the end of 
the payment deferral, when Miss H had not cleared the arrears or made a further payment, 
Aqua issued a default notice and terminated the account. Miss H made a large payment the 
following month, in October 2020, and a few payments after that, but hasnt made any 
payments since March 2021.
Miss H has brought a complaint to us about the card. She said that she didnt think that Aqua 
had properly checked whether the card, and the credit limit increases, were affordable for 
her. She said that she was in an abusive and controlling relationship at the time, and was 
coerced into taking out the card. Much of the spending on the card was for the benefit of her 
abusive partner, not for her benefit. And when she ended the relationship, her living 
expenses increased and she couldnt afford the repayments. She said that Aqua actively 
sold her increases to the limit, driving her further into debt.
Aqua said its credit cards were aimed at customers who had no credit history or a poor credit 
history  and that had to be taken into account when considering the checks it made. It said 
it considered the information Miss H had given in her application, as well as information from 
the credit reference agencies. Miss H said she was self-employed and earned around 
£14,700 per year. She had existing unsecured debt of £1,700 but no history of arrears or 
defaults, and hadnt taken products like payday loans.
It therefore accepted her application for a card with an initial credit limit of £300, with effect 
from November 2018. Aqua said that, given its customer base, its policy is to start with a low 
credit limit and increase it later if it feels the account is being well managed.
Aqua said that it regularly reviews customers accounts, and as part of doing so may offer an 
increased credit limit. It noted that since she had taken out the card Miss H had not gone 
over the limit, missed any payments or used the card for cash withdrawals, and she hadnt 
gone into arrears on credit elsewhere. So in February 2019, it offered her an increase in her 
credit limit to £1,550. Aqua carried out another review in June 2019, and offered a further 
credit limit increase to £3,050.
Our investigator thought that the original lending decision and the first credit limit increase 
were fair, but he didnt think Aqua should have offered the second credit limit increase. He 
also said that he was satisfied that part of the debt was incurred through coercive behaviour 
on the part of Miss Hs former partner  which wouldnt have happened without the credit 
limit increase. He said Aqua should write off part of the debt, come to an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Miss H for the remainder, and pay her £150 compensation.
And it should remove any adverse information from her credit file. As Aqua didnt agree, the 
case came to me for a final decision. Although I broadly agreed with the investigator, some 
of my reasoning and the detail of my outcome was different. So I issued a provisional 
decision to allow the parties a further chance for comment.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances Miss H has described, and Ive taken careful 
account of everything shes said.
Miss H told us that this card was her first experience of credit. She was living with her 
parents at the time, and had just started her self-employment business, but without a 
credit history she was having difficulty proving her identity, so she applied for this 
card.
At the same time, she was in a relationship and moved out of her parents address in 
2019. The relationship broke down in November 2019, and Miss H then lived alone.
Miss H says the relationship was abusive in many ways, including financially. Her 
partner required her to pay for everything in their relationship and later towards their 
household. Even when he was earning, he would keep his income for himself and 
expect her to pay for everything. He was abusive and manipulative and put her under 
significant emotional and psychological pressure so that she felt she had no choice 
but to pay for everything  leading to an increase in the balance on the Aqua card. At 
times, he made purchases himself using the card, though Miss H says that in general 
she held the card, but felt under pressure to spend the money.
Miss H says that she was in a good financial position when she took the card out, 
and at the time of the first credit increase. But things became progressively more 
difficult during 2019 and by the time she ended the relationship at the end of that 
year, the card was over the limit and she couldnt afford the repayments.
Miss H says that the police became involved towards the end of the relationship. 
Shes shown us evidence of police involvement which she says resulted in a caution.
Our investigator asked Miss H to identify which transactions she said were her own 
spending, and which were her partners, or entered into under coercion. This wasnt 
easy as there were a lot of day to day spending transactions over the months in 
question during 2019. However Miss H pointed to a cash advance of £250 and to 
other transactions for various items including fuel.
Ive taken everything Miss H says into account here. Theres no direct evidence of coercive control or financial abuse during the relationship beyond Miss Hs testimony. 
The police evidence relates to stalking and harassment following the conclusion of 
the relationship  although it doesnt therefore directly relate to what happened 
during the relationship, it is in my view supportive of Miss Hs account of a difficult 
relationship. Overall Im persuaded by what Miss H says. Shes given a clear credible 
and consistent account of what happened and what independent evidence there is 
supports that.
However, I think its clear from what Miss H says that the coercive relationship 
happened in 2019  after she applied for the credit card initially, and after the first 
credit limit increase.
And even in respect of the second credit limit increase, Ive not seen any evidence 
that leads me to conclude that Aqua was aware  or ought reasonably to have been 
aware  of Miss Hs situation at that time.
That means Miss Hs circumstances and the abusive behaviour she was subject to 
couldnt have been known by Aqua, and couldnt have been taken into account, at 
the time it offered her the card and offered her the increased credit limits.
Aqua was still under the general obligation to lend responsibly  which includes 
considering whether the card and the later credit limit increases were affordable for 
her.
The lending decisions
In making the initial lending decision, Aqua was required to carry out proportionate 
checks to determine whether the card was affordable for Miss H. There are no 
specific rules setting out what must be considered in every case  it depends on the 
individual circumstances. But it is required to carry out whats known as a 
creditworthiness assessment. This includes looking at Miss Hs income and 
expenditure as well as other factors such as any other credit she may have.
Ive taken into account the nature of the card Aqua offers and the circumstances at 
the time in deciding whether Aqua carried out proportionate checks and made an 
appropriate lending decision.
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable to offer Miss H the credit card with an 
initial limit of £300. This is a low limit, and reflects Miss Hs limited previous credit 
history and what Aqua knew of her income and expenditure at the time. She was self 
employed and while her income was relatively small, so was her expenditure. I think 
the checks Aqua carried out were proportionate to the application and didnt show 
any affordability concerns. And Miss H doesnt say this limit was unmanageable for 
her.
Aqua offered Miss H an increased credit limit a few months later, in early 2019. It 
says that given its target market, its policy is to offer a low limit to start with and then 
increase it later if the account is well managed and the increase appears affordable. 
And in general I think this is a reasonable approach.
However, before it offers an increased limit, Aqua should carry out a further 
creditworthiness assessment. It looked at how Miss H had conducted the account 
and noted that there were no concerns and that shed made all the payments that fell 
due. The card was being used for day to day expenditure and there were no unusual 
or concerning spending patterns. Aqua looked at Miss Hs credit file and noted that she had limited other credit and no matters of concern (no payday loans, no missed 
payments or arrears, and so on). Her overall indebtedness had decreased since the 
initial application.
Aqua was satisfied that Miss H was able to manage the increased credit limit and 
make the repayments associated with it. And it didnt increase the limit automatically 
or leave it to Miss H to opt out  it offered her an increase which would only take 
effect if she accepted it, which she did.
However, I note that this was a substantial increase in the credit limit, from £300 to 
£1,550. Although this is still a relatively low level of credit overall, its significantly 
more than the original credit limit involving a five-fold increase.
Its also worth noting that the increase took place only three months after Miss H took 
the card out. So there was relatively limited information available about her conduct 
of the account  shed only needed to make two monthly payments, for example. And 
in the second of those months shed spent £240 on the credit card  a large 
proportion of the existing limit.
Given those factors, I do have some concerns about this increase. Aqua did carry out 
checks before deciding to offer it. But it was  in relative terms  a large increase, 
and based on a very short account history.
On balance, though, I dont intend to find that this increase shouldnt have gone 
ahead. I think its fair and reasonable to take into account the low initial credit limit as 
a relevant factor here, as well as Aquas policy of offering a low limit to start with 
subject to later review. Its fair to say that Aqua could have offered a higher starting 
limit combined with a smaller later increase which wouldnt have given rise to the 
same concerns. Overall, given what it knew of Miss Hs income and expenditure, and 
her wider credit exposure, the increased limit appeared affordable. So taken as a 
whole I dont think Miss H was left in an unfair position following this increase.
The second increase followed a few months later, in June 2019. This time Aqua 
offered Miss H a new limit of £3,050.
Again, Aqua looked at Miss Hs conduct of the account. And it looked at her overall 
indebtedness and her wider credit file. It was satisfied that the new limit was 
affordable for her.
However, Im not persuaded that this limit increase was responsible. It followed very 
shortly after the previous one, and meant that Aqua had doubled Miss Hs credit limit 
in the space of five months  and increased it ten-fold in nine months. While in one 
sense Miss H had been managing the account, in that she had made all the 
payments required of her, I think there were factors that ought fairly to have given 
Aqua cause for concern. Since the last limit increase, Miss H had spent around £200 
per month on the card, but had only made small payments. Her balance had 
increased from around £200 at the time of the February increase to over £750 by the 
time of the June increase. In the time shed had the card, there were only two months 
where shed spent less than £150, and only two months where shed paid more than 
£20.
Aqua noted that Miss Hs overall indebtedness had reduced since the February 
increase, and that she hadnt missed payments on other credit or taken out payday 
loans or shown other signs of financial strain. And this is a relevant factor.Aqua didnt check Miss Hs income again at this time. Miss H has confirmed to us 
that it hadnt increased since the initial application. But while her overall indebtedness 
had come down, that was substantially outweighed by the £1,500 increase on the 
credit limit on this card, with Miss H still on a relatively low income.
As with the first increase, Ive thought not just about the amount of the increase, but 
also about the overall position the revised limit put Miss H in.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that the second limit increase was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I think based on the information Aqua had, it 
ought to have questioned whether the revised limit was affordable for her  especially 
taking into account the pattern of the borrowing increasing each month with Miss H 
repaying considerably less than she spent. 
Its important to think not just about whether the minimum payments, or a proportion 
of the debt, is affordable  its also important to think about whether the available 
credit is sustainable. Aqua knew Miss H was on a relatively low income. It knew her 
balance was increasing month by month and that she wasnt paying much above the 
minimum payments. While she hadnt missed any payments, I think Aqua ought fairly 
to have concluded that increasing Miss Hs credit limit further wasnt the right thing to 
have done.
Supporting Miss H in financial difficulty
By early 2020, Miss H was in financial difficulty. Shed missed some payments, and 
was in arrears.
In April 2020, Aqua offered Miss H a three month payment deferral, in line with the 
regulators guidance at the time. It said that she would need to clear the existing 
arrears and make the payment that fell due at the end of the deferral. When Miss H 
didnt do that, in August 2020, it sent her a default notice. 
I dont think this was fair and reasonable. Firstly, Aqua had written to Miss H in May 
2020, acknowledging her circumstances, and offering to put her account on hold and 
suspend all interest and charges, and not take further collection activity, until 
September 2020. So its not clear to me why in light of that letter Aqua took the action 
it did in August.
Secondly, the regulator allowed firms to offer a second payment deferral, up to six 
months. While I cant see that Miss H contacted Aqua to request an extension of the 
three months it had initially granted, I also cant see that Aqua made any attempt to 
contact her to discuss her situation at the end of the payment deferral  which might 
have given her the opportunity to ask for an extension.
Putting things right
Ive explained that I dont think Aqua knew or ought reasonably to have known of the 
abusive nature of Miss Hs relationship, or how that impacted her credit card account, 
at the time it made the decision to increase her credit limit in June 2019.
However, Ive also found that based on what it did know at the time, it shouldnt have 
increased the limit.
So now I need to think about what Aqua needs to do to put matters right. Our general 
approach in cases like this is to conclude that while Aqua should not have increased the limit when it did, nonetheless Miss H did borrow the extra money and its fair and 
reasonable to expect that she pays it back  so we require Aqua to remove interest 
and fees on the additional borrowing, and come to an affordable arrangement for the 
repayment of the capital.
In this case, though, part of the additional borrowing was attributable to the coercive 
control Miss H faced. The increase to the credit limit coincided with the time Miss H 
was in the relationship. Had Aqua not increased the limit, Miss Hs partner wouldnt 
have been able to coerce her into the spending that happened. While Aqua is not 
responsible for the relationship, and couldnt have been expected to know about it, 
the fact is that but for the increased limit, Miss Hs former partner would not have 
been able to coerce her into further borrowing on the card.
In those circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Miss H 
to repay that part of the capital. Shes not benefitted from it, and without the limit 
increase it would not have happened.
The difficulty is identifying what part of the spending following the increased limit is 
attributable to Miss H, or that she benefitted from, and what part she did not. Its also 
important to note that Im only upholding this complaint in respect of the second 
credit limit increase. In respect of the first credit limit increase, I havent found that it 
was unfair, and Ive found that Aqua couldnt have known of Miss Hs circumstances 
at the time.
With that in mind, Ive looked at what Miss H has said and at the spending that took 
place in excess of the previous limit of £1,550. There are large numbers of small 
transactions  often several in a day  for shopping, food, fuel and transport, and 
other day to day items.
Miss H has identified the items shes sure are hers. But I wouldnt expect her to 
remember all the transactions, or to be able to identify them all. And its also difficult 
to be sure to what extent Miss H did or didnt benefit from the individual transactions. 
For example, if Miss H was coerced into doing all the household expenditure so that 
her partner could retain his income for himself, it could still be said that she benefitted 
at least in part from that household expenditure  such as supermarket shopping to 
buy food for them both.
In the circumstances, I think its impossible to know how much of the expenditure 
Miss H herself was responsible for, and how much she benefitted from, and how 
much she was coerced into spending for the benefit of her former partner. Im 
satisfied that she was responsible for, or benefitted from, some but not all of the 
spending. But I dont think its possible to be more precise than that.
Where its not possible to be certain or precise, my remit allows me to do the best I 
can to reach a fair outcome. Bearing that in mind, I think its fair to take a 50:50 
approach.
I therefore intend to direct Aqua to calculate the amount of expenditure which 
happened after the second credit limit increase and which exceeded the £1,550 limit. 
It should then reduce the balance by half of that amount. Im satisfied that this is a 
fair estimate of the financial impact on Miss H of the coercive control she 
experienced, leading to additional spending on the card which she did not benefit 
from and which would not have happened had Aqua not increased the credit limit.
I think its fair and reasonable for Aqua to hold Miss H liable for the remaining part of the expenditure above the second limit increase. But because the limit increase 
ought fairly not to have happened, I dont think Aqua should fairly charge interest or 
fees on this amount. 
And I think its fair and reasonable for Aqua to hold Miss H responsible for the 
spending  including interest  below the second credit limit increase.
I dont think it would be fair to remove the card from Miss Hs credit file. Its important 
that credit files accurately reflect the conduct of an account. And Miss H did apply for 
and want this account, and is responsible for much of the spending on it. But its not 
in my view fair and reasonable for Aqua to report that part of the balance Ive said it 
should write off.
In respect of the failings in 2020, I think its fair that Aqua pays Miss H some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think £250 is fair 
compensation. Aqua should also correct Miss Hs credit file so that it is as if it had 
offered a second payment deferral, making six months in total.
Miss H also asks that Aqua remove the more recent default from her credit file. But I 
dont think I can fairly ask it to do that. Even without the credit limit increase that 
shouldnt have happened, there would still have been a balance to repay in 2020 and 
2021, and Miss H hasnt been able to do that. So even without the increase, I think 
its likely Aqua would still have applied a default.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss H accepted my provisional decision. Aqua did not  it said it remained of the view that it 
had not lent irresponsibly. But it referred back to the arguments it had made previously 
rather than making fresh arguments or providing new evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered again everything I said in my provisional decision alongside all the 
evidence in the case. I note Aqua doesnt agree  but also that it hasnt made any further 
arguments beyond those I took into account in my provisional decision. In those 
circumstances, Im not persuaded to change my mind and my view of this case remains the 
same. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to:
Rework Miss Hs account, writing off half the capital expenditure above the £1,550 
credit limit and removing all interest charged on the remaining half;
Work with Miss H to reach an affordable repayment arrangement for the remaining 
balance, taking into account her finances, circumstances and vulnerability;
Adjust Miss Hs credit file in the way Ive set out;
Pay Miss H £250 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman