DRN-3286689
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim for storm damage under her 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P says that during a storm, damage was caused to her fence. She made a claim to 
Ageas and it confirmed the claim was covered. However, it subsequently changed its mind 
and told her the policy didnt provide cover for her fence.
Mrs P received a letter from Ageas after she made her claim. The letter says a surveyor will 
be appointed to inspect the damage. She says she was waiting for the surveyor to contact 
her but hadnt heard anything. 
Ageas says when Mrs P contacted it again it explained that damage to fences was excluded 
under her policy terms. It apologised for saying cover was provided initially and says it will 
use this as an opportunity to review the service it provides. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with this response and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says damage to fences is excluded from the 
cover provided. She thought the company had acted reasonably by providing an apology for 
the initial misinformation.
Mrs P remains unhappy that she was misinformed about the cover provided. And says the 
letter she received was silent on the fence exclusion even though it mentioned other 
exclusions relating to fence claims. She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I understand she will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its the role of the insured, Mrs P in this case, to prove she suffered an insured loss. If she 
can do this then generally speaking the insurer must accept the claim unless it can rely on a 
policy exclusion not to.
Mrs P says her fence was damaged during a storm. Ageas doesnt dispute a storm occurred, 
or that Mrs Ps fence was damaged. So, I neednt consider this further. My remit here is to 
determine whether Ageas treated Mrs P fairly when declining her claim by relying on the 
policy exclusion it did. 
The policy terms say:
Storm  Whats not covered:
We wont cover you for damage to gates and fences.
From this its clear cover isnt provided for Mrs Ps fence. So, I think Ageas behaved fairly in 
declining the claim for this reason. 
Mrs P is also unhappy she was told her claim was covered when it wasnt. It must have been 
distressing for her when her fence was damaged. And to subsequently learn cover wasnt in 
place must have been very disappointing and frustrating. Ageas apologised that it didnt tell 
Mrs P her fence wasnt covered when she first contacted it. In the circumstances I think an 
apology is appropriate. 
Mrs P hasnt shown that she suffered a loss or further impact because of Ageass handling 
of her claim. The letter she received after contacting Ageas gave information on how her 
claim would be handled. This included a frequently asked question section explaining a 
surveyor would inspect the damage and confirm if the claim was covered. It showed some 
examples of what might not be covered. I acknowledge Mrs Ps comments that this didnt 
mention the fence exclusion. But the policy document contains a lot of terms and conditions. 
I wouldnt expect all of these to be detailed in this letter.
Im sorry Mrs P must pay for repairs to her fence, but I think Ageas behaved fairly in relying 
on its policy terms and declining the storm damage claim. I also think it was fair to provide an 
apology for the inaccurate information it gave initially. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any 
more to resolve Mrs Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman