DRN-2636675
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2004 by post. Mrs P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mrs P aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before
adding it to her card. Capital One has sent us a copy of Mrs Ps credit card application form.
The form had a separate section for PPI which gave Mrs P the choice to accept or decline
the policy. The option to take the policy has been selected and the form has been signed in
agreement with the selections that have been made on it. With this in mind I think Capital 
One made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if it was
right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had
of making her repayments
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman
