DRN-3306514
The complaint
Mr T complains that a mobile phone he bought in June 2019 was faulty. Because he bought 
the phone using a credit card issued by John Lewis Financial Services Limited, he says that 
it is equally liable with the retailer. Ill refer to John Lewis Financial Services Limited as JLFS.
What happened
Mr T bought a mobile phone in June 2019. He paid for it using his JLFS credit card. His 
purchase included a 2-year guarantee, which provided a repair service in the event of the 
breakdown of any functioning part of the phone. In the event that repairs could not be carried 
out, the guarantee said that the phone would be replaced with the nearest equivalent 
product. 
The guarantee expressly excluded deliberate damage, neglect, and consumer replaceable 
items such as batteries. 
In or about October 2020 Mr T noticed that the phones battery was ceasing to hold a 
charge. He complained to the retailer and to JLFS. 
The phone was sent for inspection by an authorised repair agent. The agent said however 
that the phone had suffered screen damage and that its policy in such cases was not to 
attempt a repair. It would however offer a repair via exchange  that is, it would provide a 
replacement phone without its box and accessories. That would cost £334.95, slightly more 
than the cost of the original phone.
Mr T rejected that offer. He said that the screen damage occurred after the battery issues 
came to light and that he did not expect the warranty to cover that damage. He did think 
however that the warranty meant that he was entitled to expect a repair to resolve the issue 
with the battery. 
JLFS said that it would offer Mr T a credit of £49, representing the cost of a replacement 
battery. Mr T did not think that went far enough. He referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not think however that Mr T had shown that the phone was defective and 
concluded therefore that JFLS was not responsible for its repair. Mr T did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mr T has a 
claim for breach of contract against the retailer, he has a like claim against JLFS. Under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, it was a term of Mr Ts contract with the retailer that the phone 
would be of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in 
the circumstances. The contract also included the guarantee, which in some respects gave 
Mr T protection additional to that provided by the Consumer Rights Act. 
In court action, a person who alleges something usually has the burden of providing 
evidence to prove it. However, a further effect of the Consumer Rights Act is that, if a defect 
occurs within the first six months of the supply of a product to a consumer, it is for the 
supplier to show that it was not defective at the point of supply. 
I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court, but, in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account any relevant law. Nor am I limited to considering 
arguments and evidence put forward by the parties. This service can make its own enquiries 
and consider arguments which have not been made by the complainant or the respondent. 
In this case, the problems that Mr T has described with the phones battery came to light 
more than a year after he took delivery of it. I do not believe therefore  that I should assume 
they were present at delivery. And, because the repair agent was unwilling to inspect the 
phone fully, it is not clear whether they were.
As I have indicated, however, the warranty extended Mr Ts rights to some extent. I have 
therefore considered what it means for Mr Ts claim against JLFS. The guarantee expressly 
excluded claims for Consumer replaceable items, including batteries. That was not 
unreasonable and neither in my view was it inconsistent with the protection provided by 
legislation, including the Consumer Rights Act. The guarantee was designed to cover a 
range of electrical goods and appliances sold by the retailer, so could not realistically cover 
items which were likely to need replacement over the guarantee period. 
I accept that the problem might not have been simply that the phones battery needed 
replacing, but again, in the absence of a full report, I do not believe I can safely assume that. 
I note that JLFS has offered to fund the cost of a replacement battery  £49  and in the 
circumstances believe that is reasonable. I note too that JLFS has acknowledged that it was 
slow to acknowledge Mr Ts complaint and has paid him £60 in recognition of that. Again, I 
think is fair compensation.   
My final decision 
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Ts complaint. I simply leave him to decide 
whether, on reflection he wishes to accept the settlement offer.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman