DRN-4372198
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with ReAssure Ltd, believing they failed to properly manage his pension 
funds, causing a loss in their value. 
What happened
Mr J had a personal pension with Legal and General Assurance Society (L&G). On 7 
September 2020, his policy (along with many others) was migrated across to ReAssure Ltd. 
Mr Js intended retirement date (NRD) when he originally took out the policy was in May 
2020, when he reached his 60th birthday. 
In the period leading up to his NRD, L&G wrote to Mr J to provide an update on his policy, 
and the way in which his funds were being, and had been, managed by them. Their letter of 
30 January 2020 said as follows:
all [his] money is currently invested in the Adventurous Lifestyle Profile, which 
consists of a combination of the Managed Fund, Fixed Interest Fund and the Cash 
Fund
It goes on to say that Mr Js automatic lifestyle switch is due to take place on 31 March 2020, 
and that as he approaches his retirement date, his investment will gradually be switched 
each year into more secure funds, as part of the lifestyling process. And on 25 February 
2020, L&G wrote again to Mr J to explain that, as he is approaching his NRD, he needs to 
contact them to discuss his pension. Its value at that time was £41,600.48. 
Mr J decided to work beyond his NRD. On 5 November 2020 (post-migration), ReAssure 
sent their Annual Review letter to Mr J, confirming the value of his pension at that time 
(£41,138.15, up from £40,806.40 the previous year). Further annual review letters were sent 
in 2021 and 2022, recording fund values of £39,723 and £33,521 respectively. 
ReAssure sent a further letter to Mr J on 21 June 2023, highlighting the risks that his policy 
value could decrease because he was holding a large proportion of his funds in a cash-like 
fund. They invited him to consider whether to keep his funds in cash or explore other fund 
switch options to better reflect his risk appetite at that time.   
This prompted Mr J to contact ReAssure. He expressed his unhappiness with the drop in 
value of his funds. He also questioned whether his policy had been switched into more 
secure investments, as he had expected to happen as he approached his 60th birthday. He 
complained to ReAssure in June 2023. 
ReAssure initially told Mr J on a phone call there was no evidence that any lifestyling had 
occurred on his policy, as per notes provided by L&G when the policy migrated. ReAssure 
also explained to Mr J that one of the funds he was invested in had dropped by 22% in 2022, 
which accounted for the overall drop in his fund at that time. 
ReAssure further advised they hadnt found any evidence to suggest his policy should still be 
invested within L&Gs lifestyling profile. They also advised that Mr Js policy had been 
subject to a lifestyling process between March 2010 and March 2020, when it terminated. 
ReAssure offered Mr J the option of moving his funds into their own lifestyling profile if he 
wished, providing a link to their website. But ReAssure did compensate Mr J, sending him a 
cheque for £300, because previous communications had been misleading.
Unhappy with ReAssures response, Mr J brought his complaint to our Service. However, 
one of our Investigators didnt think ReAssure had done anything wrong. He explained that 
L&G had already undertaken the lifestyle process between 2010 and 2020, meaning Mr Js 
funds had already been moved to safer investments. So when ReAssure took over Mr Js 
policy, the lifestyling had already been completed and there was nothing further for 
ReAssure to do. 
He also explained that the value of Mr Js policy had dropped in 2022 because of world 
events that negatively impacted the financial markets at that time  something beyond 
ReAssures control. But he agreed that L&Gs letter was confusing and believing Mr J had 
accepted ReAssures offer £300 compensation for the distress caused by this, made no 
further compensation award.
Mr J was unhappy with our Investigators conclusion. He said he wasnt happy with the 
compensation paid and had accepted it on a without prejudice basis only. He didnt accept 
that his pension funds could have made such a big loss if they were invested in fixed interest 
products. And he didnt believe that his funds had been invested in safer funds, as they 
should have been. He also questioned why his retirement date had been moved to his 75th 
birthday, and wondered if that may explain why his pension hadnt been moved to safer 
funds. 
Our Investigator responded to these points, but Mr J wanted his complaint to be considered 
afresh by an Ombudsman  so its been passed to me for that purpose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J appears to believe that his pension wasnt placed in a lifestyle process during the time 
that L&G were still managing it. Ill address that issue first. 
Lifestyling  and evidence Mr Js policy had been subject to a lifestyling process
When a consumer with a personal pension is approaching their intended retirement date, 
their pension provider is required to begin a process of moving the pension investment mix 
into safer investments. This is to help minimise the risk of a consumers pension from being 
adversely affected by unforeseen events in the years leading up to retirement  helping to 
maintain its value, rather than risk sudden losses that cant be recovered in the short period 
before a pension is taken. This process is known as lifestyling. 
Mr Js pension was with L&G. His NRD was his 60th birthday, in May 2020. So L&G were 
required to gradually alter his investment mix  or, undertake lifestyling  in the years 
leading up to his NRD. And, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied this is what they did do. So, 
when Mr Js policy migrated to ReAssure, the investment mix had already been through 
L&Gs ten-year lifestyle process. His funds were invested in cash and low risk products at 
that time. A closer look at the yearly statements Mr J received from ReAssure confirms this. 
ReAssures 5 November 2020 Annual Review letter provided details (amongst other things) 
of which funds Mr Bs policy was invested in, as follows:Fund Unit 
PriceNumber of 
UnitsYour value
Fixed Interest 6 Pension Accumulator Series 06 43.63 705.28 £30,769.96
Cash 6 Pension Accumulator Series 06 11.65 890.28 £10,368.20
ReAssures yearly review letter the following year, dated 5 November 2021, recorded a small 
drop in fund value to £39,723.87, with funds invested as follows:
Fund Unit 
PriceNumber of 
UnitsYour value
Fixed Interest 6 Pension Accumulator Series 06 41.67 705.519 £29,397.57
Cash 6 Pension Accumulator Series 06 11.60 890.581 £10,326.30
And their yearly review letter dated 5 November 2022 recorded a further drop in fund value 
to £33,521.53, with funds invested as follows:
Fund Unit 
PriceNumber of 
UnitsYour value
Fixed Interest 6 Pension Accumulator Series 06 32.82 705.519 £23,151.61
Cash 6 Pension Accumulator Series 06 11.64 890.581 £10,369.93
What is clear from each of these letters is that Mr Js investment mix had remained constant 
 the number of units held in each of the investment funds had remained the same. The 
value of the cash funds had remained constant in monetary terms. And whilst the value of 
the Fixed Interest funds had fallen, the number of units held had remained constant.     
As I said above, the purpose of lifestyling is to place investments in safer funds, and by the 
time of a consumers NRD, youd usually expect an investment mix to include at least 25% of 
cash holdings. This is to reflect the fact that a consumer is entitled to take up to 25% tax 
free cash when they take their pension, so having quick access to cash (equivalent to at 
least 25% of the total value of a pension pot) is necessary. 
This contrasts with the investment mix that youd ordinarily expect to see in the years prior to 
retirement, when a pension company would be actively seeking to invest in funds that will 
achieve growth. There would be minimal exposure to cash investments during that growth 
period. 
Here, it can be seen that in 2020, Mr Js fund value amounted to just over £41,000. And just 
over 25% of that was held in cash funds. This is clear evidence that Mr Js pension had 
been through a lifestyling process in the years leading up to this date. And it remained 
constant in the following years. 
Ive also looked at ReAssures website and can see the Cash fund has a risk rating of 1, 
and the Fixed Interest fund has a risk rating of 2. ReAssure explain that they rate their 
funds on a scale of riskiness [decided by them], with one being the lowest rating, and six the 
highest. So, as well as the cash fund being the lowest possible risk, the fixed interest one is 
also a low-risk fund  confirming that Mr Js pension was in low-risk funds from at least 2020, 
in keeping with the lifestyling requirements that ReAssure (or more precisely, L&G before 
them) were required to implement. Drop in fund value in 2022
Its clear from the annual review letters provided that Mr Js pension remained fairly constant 
in value between 2019 (£40,806) and 2021 (£39,723). This was at a time when his pension 
funds had been moved to the safer funds mix after lifestyling had taken place. And as 
explained, this would have been done in anticipation of Mr J taking his retirement benefits 
when he reached his NRD on his 60th birthday (in May 2020). 
Mr J didnt take his retirement benefits when he reached his NRD, and the funds remained 
invested in these safer investments in anticipation of him choosing to take his retirement 
benefits at a future date. But even though the funds were invested in low-risk investments, it 
doesnt mean they were risk free. The non-cash element of his investments would still have 
been subject to movements in the financial markets caused by external events, and 
particularly how the movement in interest rates affected the market for UK bond prices 
(which accounted for the majority of the investments in the fixed interest fund). And this is 
what has happened here  there was significant turmoil in the markets in 2022 caused by 
world events, resulting in sharp interest rate rises. 
I appreciate Mr J is unhappy the value of his fixed interest investment fell by £6,246 (or just 
over 21%)  seeing his pension value fall by that much must have come as a shock. But as 
Ive explained above, the fall in value of those investments wasnt something ReAssure had 
any control over. So I cant hold them responsible for the drop in value Mr Js pension 
experienced during this time. 
I should also highlight that Mr Js investment mix was designed to be used for his (relatively) 
immediate retirement after he reached his NRD. However, Mr J didnt retire then, which of 
course was entirely his choice. But all of the annual review letters ReAssure sent to Mr J 
after his NRD did explain how he could review his investment  to check his funds were 
invested according to his attitude to risk  mentioning ReAssures website address which 
could be used to find this information. The letters said:
You should always make sure the funds youre invested in match your attitude to 
risk and what you have planned for your money.If you stay invested in low risk 
funds too long you may miss out on strong growth in financial markets and your 
policy could become more vulnerable to the effects of inflation 
and
If youre not sure about what funds to invest in, you should seek guidance or 
independent financial advice.
Its important to recognise that ReAssure werent able to give Mr J advice  they werent his 
pensions advisor, and simply held the policy (ready to pay out) that he took out with L&G. 
And I think their letters were suitably clear that it was up to Mr J to make enquiries if he 
wasnt happy with the performance of the funds he was invested in. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I cant fairly conclude ReAssure were responsible 
for the loss in value of Mr Js pension funds, and so wont be asking ReAssure to do 
anything further in relation to the drop in value of Mr Js policy.   
Extending Mr Js NRD pension age until his 75th birthday
ReAssures letter to Mr J dated 25 February 2020  asking him what he wanted to do with 
his pension as it was only eight weeks before his original NRD  said the following at page 2:
If we dont hear from you before your selected retirement date your plan will 
continue to be investedunless you contact us to choose a new selected retirement 
dateHere, Im unaware Mr J contacted ReAssure after his original NRD passed. When he chose 
not to retire, ReAssures systems defaulted Mr Js NRD to his 75th birthday. This is common 
practice where a consumer doesnt retire at his (policy defined ) NRD, and where a 
consumer hadnt expressly advised the pension provider that he would be retiring at a 
particular later date. It doesnt mean Mr J has to wait until he is 75  he can contact 
ReAssure and choose to retire at any time. And of course, its open to him to contact 
ReAssure and explore changing his investment mix  ReAssure have said he is able to 
consider their own five-year lifestyle process  if he intends to wait further until he retires. 
Distress and inconvenience
ReAssure have accepted that L&Gs letters were confusing, and I agree. I can understand 
how Mr J would have thought he was being told that his lifestyling process hadnt yet started 
by the time of their 2020 letters. So, whilst the content wasnt strictly incorrect  just 
confusingly worded  it did cause Mr J distress.
ReAssure offered (and paid) Mr J £300 for that distress. I appreciate what Mr J has said 
about the basis on which he accepted this sum. However, I think the sum does fairly reflect 
the distress that he was caused. I must explain that distress awards arent meant as a 
punishment for a business. And where this organisation makes a compensation award for 
distress, these tend to be fairly modest in nature. Our website has guidance on the sums we 
award. Here, I think what ReAssure have already paid is fair  bearing in mind those 
guidelines  and so I wont be asking ReAssure to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against ReAssure Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman