DRN-4005653
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the service she received from Landmark Financial Planning Limited 
(LFP) when transferring the proceeds of her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She says LFPs actions caused her to 
suffer a financial loss, for which shed like to be compensated. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2023. Ive recapped the background below:
On 20 March 2017, Mrs W contacted the trustee of her OPS (the trustee), asking for a 
statement of her pension entitlement. Following this, on 28 March 2017, the trustee sent 
Mrs W a statement confirming, amongst other things, the following:
Her guaranteed Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV") was £562,572.32 (March 
CETV).
To secure the March CETV, the trustee required a Transfer Agreement form 
completed and signed by Mrs W and a representative of the scheme she was 
transferring to. A signed Confirmation of Appropriate Independent Advice form was 
also needed and both documents had to be returned before the CETV guarantee 
deadline (CETV deadline), 28 June 2017. 
If the Transfer Agreement form was received after the CETV deadline, Mrs Ws 
CETV would be recalculated.
Mrs W contacted LFP on 12 April 2017, seeking advice about her OPS pension. She met 
with LFP on 19 April 2017 and, the next day, LFP requested a Transfer Value Analysis 
report (TVAS) from a third party (Firm O).
Firm O emailed LFP and the trustee on 9 May 2017, requesting information about Mrs Ws 
OPS benefits. LFP responded on the same day and the trustee responded on 16 May 2017. 
Firm O completed and sent LFP the TVAS on 1 June 2017. LFP forwarded the TVAS to    
Mrs W the following day, asking her to let it know when, one day in the following week, she 
could meet to discuss the TVAS and its cashflow analysis.
Mrs W met with LFP on 19 June 2017. The TVAS and cashflow analysis were discussed, 
and Mrs W confirmed that, subject to LFPs advice, she wanted to transfer. LFP sent Mrs W 
a copy of its cashflow analysis on the same day and advised her to transfer. On 23 June 
2017, it sent Mrs W transfer forms, asking her to complete and return them as soon as 
possible, so they could be sent to the trustee before the deadline.
On 26 June 2017, LFP emailed Mrs W, attaching its advice letter, and saying that completing 
and returning the transfer forms previously sent by the following day was crucial to ensure 
the trustee received them by 28 June 2017. 
Having received Mrs Ws completed forms on 27 June 2017, LFP forwarded them to the 
trustee on the same day, saying information required in the Transfer Agreement form from 
the receiving scheme (Provider T) would be sent directly by it. LFP sent Provider T the 
Transfer Agreement form for completion on the same day.
Having received the Transfer Agreement form on 28 June 2017, Provider T returned it and a 
Transfer Instruction to the trustee the next day. The trustee received the documentation on 3 
July 2017, but later confirmed that Provider T had completed the Transfer Agreement form 
with details for another customer.
On 4 August 2017, Provider T sent new Transfer Agreement and Transfer Instruction forms 
to the trustee, explaining that it had previously provided incorrect information. The trustee 
responded saying that as the CETV deadline had passed, Mrs Ws March CETV was no 
longer valid. 
The trustee later emailed Mrs W on 7 August 2017, confirming that as it hadnt received the 
necessary forms by the extended guaranteed date of 28 July 2017, her transfer case had 
been closed and a new CETV quote would be sent. 
A new quote was issued on 22 August 2017, confirming a CETV of £541,541.79. Upon 
receiving this, Mrs W contacted LFP, querying the lower figure. LFP later contacted the 
trustee, which explained that as it hadnt received Provider Ts Transfer Agreement form by 
the deadline and some of its paperwork was incorrect, the March CETV quote couldnt be 
honoured.
LFP later complained to the trustee on Mrs Ws behalf, arguing that Mrs W had been treated 
unfairly. It said that the trustee had provided conflicting information about the CETV 
deadline, noting that it had previously dealt with transfers from the Mrs Ws OPS where, 
despite receiving scheme documents being outstanding up to a month after the CETV 
deadline, the guaranteed CETV had still been honoured. Although it accepted that some 
documentation was returned after the CETV deadline, this was within the grace period the 
trustee usually provided.
The trustee responded, saying that without evidence Provider T had attempted to send a 
correctly completed Transfer form before the CETV deadline, it couldnt honour the March 
CETV. It also noted that none of Mrs Ws transfer forms had been returned fully completed. 
Although it had previously adopted a discretionary practice where, in certain circumstances, 
it would allow a further month for transfer paperwork to be received, this practice stopped 
after 12 May 2017. Moreover, it had never been the case that incomplete paperwork would 
be sufficient to secure the guaranteed CETV. It said that its 7 August 2017 email had 
incorrectly stated that an extended CETV deadline applied, however this didnt change the 
requirement to recalculate Mrs Ws CETV given that correct documents from Provider T 
werent received until 7 August 2017.
Unhappy with the trustees response, LFP referred Mrs Ws complaint to the Pensions 
Ombudsman (PO) on her behalf. The PO considered the matter but didnt uphold it.
In March 2021, Mrs W wrote to LFP and complained, saying it was responsible for ensuring 
the transfer was carried out correctly and shed expected it to be completed by the March 
CETV deadline. As this hadnt happened, she considered LFP responsible for the financial 
impact of this.
LFP later provided its final response to the complaint. In summary, it said that although time 
had been lost at the start of the transfer process and it was always going to be difficult to 
meet the CETV deadline, it had worked in a timely manner. It didnt agree it was responsible 
for Mrs W failing to secure the March CETV.Unhappy with LFPs response, Mrs W referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and concluded that while necessary documentation 
wasnt returned to the trustee in time to secure the March CETV, all indications were that 
LFP had acted appropriately and in Mrs Ws best interests. As he didnt think its actions 
caused Mrs W to miss the March CETV deadline, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators findings, saying, in summary:
Shed mentioned the CETV deadline to LFP several times, but it never indicated that 
it might not be met.
Shed been disadvantaged by LFPs decision to outsource the TVAS to Firm O, 
which took too long to produce it.
If LFP was concerned about the CETV deadline being missed, she didnt understand 
why it hadnt called her or suggested a virtual meeting to discuss the TVAS sooner 
than they had.
LFP hadnt acted as quickly as it couldve, bearing mind the deadline involved. For 
example, it wasnt clear why, despite having met on 19 June 2017, LFP didnt issue 
transfer forms to her until 23 June 2017.
LFP had made assumptions about the CETV deadline, and shed suffered financially 
because of this.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for decision. And my 
provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both 
parties, Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
Thats to say:
What LFPs role and responsibility was during the transfer process and what Mrs W 
could reasonably expect as a result.
Whether LFPs acts or omissions caused Mrs W to miss the March 2017 CETV 
deadline.
What, if any, compensation is due to Mrs W from LFP for what happened. 
Although several different parties were involved in the transfer process, my findings are 
limited to LFPs acts or omissions as its the party Mrs W has complained about. Another 
party may have contributed to delays with the transfer, but Im unable to make a finding on 
this. However, this doesnt mean Ive ignored the impact of any delays another party may 
have caused, or that Ive held LFP responsible for these.
Overall, I have sympathy for Mrs W. Its clear to me that in deciding to transfer and seeking 
LFPs advice, she was taking deliberate action to try to ensure her needs in retirement were 
met. Having confirmed that she wanted to transfer, Mrs W says she expected LFP to 
facilitate the transfer, ensuring that she secured the March CETV. So, I can understand why 
she was disappointed when the CETV she secured following the transfer was more than 
£20,000 less than the one she was originally quoted.
Mrs W considers she did all that was required to ensure she met the CETV deadline. But 
she says LFP caused delays, without which she wouldve secured the March CETV. Accordingly, shed like LFP to compensate her with the difference between the March CETV 
and the CETV she secured upon transfer after the March CETV deadline. 
The OPS statement specified that unless Mrs Ws Transfer Agreement form was received 
before 28 June 2017, her CETV would be recalculated and could be higher or lower than the 
value previously quoted. Mrs W and LFP both had sight of the statement, so Im satisfied the 
position in terms of securing the March CETV was clear to them. But it seems that despite 
the deadline provided by the trustee, LFP mistakenly assumed that a grace period of an 
additional month would be given to meet the requirements for securing the March CETV.  
The one-month grace period was something the trustee, using its discretion, had previously 
provided and which LFP had experienced with clients transferring out of the OPS before. 
However, it wasnt standard practice. It was a decision made by the trustee on a case-by-
case basis, provided that certain requirements were met. So, it wasnt reasonable for LFP to 
assume it would automatically be in place for Mrs Ws transfer, such that it would supersede 
the trustees deadline in the March 2017 statement. 
Given the significance of the transaction taking place and LFPs obligation as Mrs Ws 
adviser to act in her best interests, LFP ought to have sought confirmation from the trustee 
of what it assumed the extended CETV deadline was before moving forward. Without doing 
so, I dont think it was acting with the level of care the situation warranted. And by sharing 
the assumed CETV deadline with Mrs W, LFP led Mrs W to believe she had more time than 
she did to meet the trustees requirements and secure the March CETV. 
LFPs position is that it acted as quickly as it could in the circumstances, however factors 
beyond its control resulted in days being lost in the lead up to the CETV deadline.
With the above in mind, Ive looked carefully at the transfer process as it occurred to identify 
any delays LFP was responsible for and assess their impact, particularly in terms of Mrs W 
meeting the CETV deadline. In doing so, Ive thought about when, but for any errors by LFP, 
the trustees requirements for securing the March CETV couldve been met. 
Mrs W contacted LFP for advice eleven working days after her OPS statement was sent. I 
dont think this was unreasonable in the way LFP has suggested given how long it likely took 
for Mrs W to receive the statement. And considering the significant value of the benefits she 
was considering transferring, she understandably wanted time to reflect on and discuss the 
matter with her husband before deciding to move forward with an adviser. 
From what Ive seen, the first notable period of time that passed during the transfer process 
relates to Firm Os production of the TVAS. LFP requested the TVAS on 20 April 2017. 12 
working days later, Firm O asked LFP and the trustees for further information. LFP 
responded on the same day and the trustee responded 5 working days later. The TVAS was 
finalised by Firm O 11 working days after this, overall, taking 28 working days to produce.
Mrs W feels the TVAS took too long and that by outsourcing it to another firm LFP put her at 
a significant disadvantage in the transfer process. While I appreciate Mrs Ws position, I 
dont agree. TVAS reports arent, by nature, quick or simple documents to produce. 
Information is usually required from third parties; specialist software is often needed to 
produce data and relevant technical expertise is necessary to check the calculations and 
comparisons involved. Because of this, its common for advisers to outsource TVAS to firms 
specifically offering this service. 
In Mrs Ws case, Ive seen nothing to indicate that anything out of the ordinary occurred with 
the production of the TVAS or that there were any unreasonable delays. Mrs W has 
confirmed that LFP told her the TVAS could take several weeks to be finalised and explained the reasons for this. So, Im satisfied LFP appropriately managed Mrs Ws expectations in 
this respect and I dont find that she was disadvantaged in the way she claims.
Following its completion on 1 June 2017, LFP forwarded the TVAS to Mrs W the next day, 
asking to meet one day in the following week. But, having been abroad at the time, Mrs W 
wasnt able to meet until 19 June 2017. So, instead of the meeting taking place, at most, 5 
working days later, it took twice the amount of time for it to happen. 
LFPs submissions suggest it thinks Mrs W caused avoidable delays at this stage and that 
the time she took to make herself available indicates that she wasnt overly concerned about 
the CETV deadline. I disagree. 
As her adviser, Mrs W reasonably relied on what LFP told her about the trustees alleged 1 
month grace period. And because of LFPs assurances about this, I think Mrs W was likely 
operating on the incorrect understanding that the CETV deadline was, from the date of LFPs 
invitation to meet, 40 working days away (so, on 28 July 2017), and not the correct position 
which was that the deadline was just 18 working days away, on 28 June 2017. 
Having been misinformed by LFP originally, I think its likely that Mrs W was under the 
impression that there was sufficient time before the CETV deadline to meet and move 
forward with the transfer. I think this explains why Mrs W chose to wait until she returned 
from holiday and meet with LFP on 19 June 2017.
Ive considered what, on balance, would likely have happened if LFP had, as it shouldve, 
taken the trustees 28 June 2017 CETV deadline to be the only deadline for securing the 
March CETV. Fundamentally, Mrs W wouldnt have been under the misapprehension that 
the CETV deadline was 28 July 2017. And with the correct deadline in mind, I think that on 2 
June 2017, when LFP invited Mrs W to meet and discuss the TVAS and cashflow analysis, it 
shouldve also reminded her that there were only 18 working days left before the March 
CETV expired. At this point I think it wouldve also been prudent for LFP to explain to Mrs W 
that if following its advice, she still wished to transfer, it was possible that due to the steps 
remaining in the transfer process, the March CETV deadline might not be met, meaning her 
CETV would be recalculated and could change. 
Although LFP says it was always going to be difficult to meet the CETV deadline, Ive seen 
nothing to indicate it shared this information with Mrs W. By not doing so, I think LFP fell 
short in its duty to ensure it communicated effectively with Mrs W and put her in a position to 
make informed decisions about the transfer.
If LFP had, at the outset, reaffirmed that the CETV deadline was 28 June 2017, I think its 
reasonable to assume that in hoping to secure the March CETV, Mrs W wouldve made 
reasonable efforts to meet with LFP the following week as it had proposed, even if it meant 
having a virtual meeting or telephone call while she was abroad. Based on this, I believe  
Mrs W wouldve met with LFP sometime between 5 June 2017 and 9 June 2017. Given the 
deadline involved and limited time left, I think its fair to assume Mrs W wouldve arranged to 
meet with LFP as soon as possible, so 5 June 2017. And I think its reasonable to assume 
that as it did, LFP couldve then sent Mrs W transfer documents 4 working days later  so, 
on 9 June 2017.
Im aware that Mrs W feels LFP took too long to send the transfer documents. However, I 
havent seen anything which persuades me the time taken was excessive. Bearing in mind 
that LFP had to collate and tag eleven separate forms and documents, including paperwork 
required by Provider T and LFP, I dont think 4 working days was unreasonable.Mrs W says she received the transfer documents from LFP on 24 June 2017, 1 working day 
after they were sent. And she completed and returned them to LFP the following working 
day. I think its reasonable to assume the same wouldve likely happened if LFP sent the 
documents when I believe it shouldve, on 9 June 2017. Had this happened, Mrs W wouldve 
received the documents on 10 June 2017 and returned them to LFP the next working day 
(12 June 2017), so it received them on 13 June 2017.
Having received Mrs Ws transfer documents, LFP sent Provider T the Transfer Agreement 
form on the same day. Provider T received the form a day later and forwarded completed 
documents onto the trustee the following day. Following on from what Ive already said about 
when I think things shouldve happened, this wouldve meant that the trustee received 
transfer documentation from Provider T on 19 June 2017. 
This wouldve left just 7 working days until the deadline for securing the March CETV 
expired. However, as confirmed in her pension statement, Mrs W wouldve only been able to 
secure the March CETV if, in addition to returning a completed and signed Confirmation of 
Appropriate Independent Advice form, shed also returned a completed Transfer Agreement 
form, signed by herself and Provider T. But the reality is that when the trustee reviewed Mrs 
Ws transfer submission, it became clear that its criteria for securing the March CETV hadnt 
been met. As I understand it, Provider T had sent in a Transfer Agreement form for a 
different provider containing the details of an unrelated individual.
Provider T did later identify its error and send the trustee the correct Transfer Agreement 
form with the relevant details provided. However, this wasnt until 24 working days after its 
first incorrect submission. If the transfer had proceeded as I think it shouldve  without any 
failings by LFP  it follows that the trustee wouldve received Provider Ts the correct 
documentation for securing the March CETV on 26 July 2017. But this wouldve been 20 
working days after the CETV deadline expired. So, notwithstanding what Ive said about 
what LFP shouldve done differently and what the impact of this wouldve likely been, Im 
unable to conclude that but for LFPs actions, Mrs W wouldve met the CETV deadline and 
secured the March CETV.
I understand that having accepted LFPs transfer advice, Mrs W expected to secure the 
March CETV. Shes said she had an agreement with LFP to this effect. However, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that LFP provided Mrs W with any guarantee that she would secure the 
March CETV if it recommended that she transfer.
Although I appreciate Mrs Ws disappointment that she didnt secure the March CETV, Im 
mindful of LFPs role as her adviser during the transfer process. It had an overarching duty 
to act in Mrs Ws best interests. And given the substantial benefits and guarantees Mrs W 
would be giving up by transferring, LFPs role wasnt to simply justify and make the transfer 
happen to secure the March 2017 CETV. Its significant and overriding responsibility was to 
assess Mrs Ws objectives against her overall circumstances. It needed to determine what 
course of action would help her meet her objectives and, above all, place her in the best 
possible position in retirement. The recommendation also needed to be robust and clearly 
demonstrate through evidence that it was suitable.
I do consider providing advice and effecting a transfer in a timely fashion to be part of
LFPs obligation to act in Mrs Ws best interests. However, I dont agree that this meant that
ensuring Mrs W secured the March CETV shouldve been the driving force behind the 
transfer process.
Overall, its clear to me that LFP caused some delays in the transfer process here. However, 
I havent seen anything which leads me to conclude that it should compensate Mrs W in the 
way shes seeking. There was never any guarantee that the CETV deadline would be met. And bearing in mind the involvement of third parties in the transfer and the delays and errors 
they may have caused, I cant fairly say that LFP is solely to blame for how long it took for 
the transfer to be completed.
As Ive said, I do sympathise with Mrs W. The level by which her CETV decreased before 
the transfer was completed wasnt insignificant. And if her hope had been to secure the 
higher transfer value first quoted to her, then she will understandably have been upset and 
no doubt very disappointed when this didnt happen. However, notwithstanding delays and 
errors caused by LFP, I havent seen anything which persuades me that Mrs W wouldve 
secured the higher March CETV. So, I cant fairly say that LFP must pay Mrs W the 
difference between the March CETV and the CETV she ultimately secured.
As set out in its original statement and because the transfer wasnt finalised until after the 
March CETV deadline, Mrs Ws OPS recalculated her transfer value, and this was the 
amount transferred. Im satisfied that Mrs W received the transfer value she was
entitled to, so I wont be directing LFP to compensate Mrs W in the way she seeks. 
Im aware that Mrs W would like LFP to refund the fee she paid for its advice, as well as any 
ongoing advice charges. However, the basis on which shes making this claim isnt clear. 
Mrs W agreed to these fees and charges when she appointed LFP as her adviser. As I 
understand it, following the transfer, LFP has been retained as Mrs Ws adviser and 
continues to carry out work to this effect. So, I see no reason to make the award shes 
seeking in this respect.
While I havent found in Mrs Ws favour, in that I dont think LFP should pay her the 
compensation shes seeking, I should say that I do think its entirely reasonable for her to 
have expected LFP to act with more care in the circumstances. And its unfortunate that this 
didnt happen at every stage of the transfer. In my view, LFPs assumption about the CETV 
deadline, meant that Mrs Ws expectations about the CETV werent managed as well as they 
ought to have been in the circumstances. As a result, LFP caused Mrs W avoidable stress 
and disappointment, for which I think she should be compensated. In the circumstances, I 
think LFP should pay Mrs W £300 for trouble and upset caused. I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable bearing in mind the impact of LFPs actions and what it couldve done better.
I invited LFP and Mrs W to respond to my provisional decision. LFP said it had no 
comments. Mrs W replied and, in summary, said:
Although Id said the March CETV was never guaranteed, LFP had confirmed in a 
letter (dated 20 April 2017) that it would be working with the CETV deadline (28 June 
2017) in mind. So, it was aware that there was a deadline to meet.
The £300 compensation I intended to direct LFP to pay her for avoidable stress and 
disappointment was unfair, considering that shed received a much lower pension 
than she wouldve done if LFP had acted as it shouldve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as before (and as set out above). That 
means Im partially upholding Mrs Ws complaint for the reasons Ive previously given. 
However, Ill respond to the comments Mrs W has made following my provisional decision. 
I cant see that Mrs W has provided this service with a copy of the 20 April 2017 letter she 
says LFP sent her, confirming that itd be working with the March CETV deadline in mind. But even if LFP did send a letter to this effect, Im not persuaded that this meant  or could 
reasonably be taken to mean  that if LFP advised Mrs W to transfer, LFP guaranteed that 
Mrs W secured the March CETV. This wasnt an assurance LFP could provide in the 
circumstances. 
There were different parties involved in the transfer process and several steps which needed 
to be completed before the transfer could be finalised, some of which were beyond LFPs 
control. So, while I accept that LFP may have been working with the CETV deadline (28 
June 2017) in mind  as well as the unofficial extended deadline it incorrectly assumed the 
trustees would grant  I take this to mean that it was conscious of it during the transfer 
process, and not that it was in any way guaranteeing that itd be met. Therefore, my position 
regarding the March CETV remains the same. Im unable to agree that Mrs W had an 
agreement with LFP which guaranteed shed secure the March CETV. It follows that I dont 
find that shes suffered the financial loss she claims shes sustained by not getting the March 
CETV when she transferred.
I appreciate Mrs Ws strength of feeling regarding the compensation amount Im going to 
direct LFP to pay her for what happened. I understand she doesnt think its enough. But her 
comments in response to my provisional decision indicate she feels this way because she 
considers that but for LFPs actions, she wouldve received the March CETV which was 
£20,000 higher than the CETV she received when she transferred. This suggests to me that 
Mrs W expects the compensation I award her to reflect what she believes to be a significant 
loss on the value of the pension she should be receiving. For the reasons Ive already given, 
Im afraid I dont agree. 
The £300 Im going to award Mrs W is for what I think the impact of LFPs actions was where 
I believe it ought to have acted differently. Its clear to me that LFP caused Mrs W avoidable 
stress, upset and disappointment when it failed to communicate effectively with her and 
manage her expectations during the advice and transfer process. And I think £300 
acknowledges the impact of this in the circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint. I havent seen 
anything which persuades me that a higher level of compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint and 
direct Landmark Financial Planning Limited to pay Mrs W £300 compensation for trouble and 
upset caused by its service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman