The complaint
Mr M complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-sold him a 
series of medium term savings plans between 1994 and 1998, none of which were suitable 
for his circumstances and objectives.
What happened
Mr M took out the first policy in 1992, paying £30 a month. He surrendered it in 2002. Sun 
Life upheld his complaint about this recommendation and offered compensation which he 
accepted. Hence, this policy is not part of this complaint.
He took out another policy in 1994, paying £50 a month and kept this for its 10 year duration. 
He took out a third policy in 1997, also paying £50 a month but surrendered this after 7 years 
in 2004. He took out a fourth policy the following year, 1998, and also surrendered this in 
2004.
His representative said:
Theres no evidence that other, more flexible, less risky savings plans were
discussed
Theres no evidence that the advisor sought to establish Mr Ms attitude to risk
As a single person with no dependents, Mr M had no need for the life cover; while
this made the plans potentially tax-efficient this alone did not just the reduction in the
amount of Mr M's money being invested
Being in his late 20s/early 30s at the times of advice there was obvious doubt as to
whether he would want or be able to commit to 10-year savings commitments (with
each plan); this was borne out by the fact that he didnt retain two of them for the  full
10 years
An investigator at this service didnt feel there was sufficient to uphold Mr Ms complaint, 
commenting that:
The documentation from the time shows that the advisor, on each occasion,
documented Mr Ms financial circumstances including his income and outgoings.
These indicated that the plans were easily affordable  at the time  and that he had
sufficient surplus income/savings to be able to cope with some losses
Mr M had, at differing points, a range of investments, pension plans and an
endowment mortgage; this indicated he had some investment experience and
a willingness to invest in risk-based products
As Mr M appeared to be willing to commit to medium term savings plans, it wasnt
unreasonable to recommend balanced risk investments
DRN-1985938The fact that Mr M was making modest monthly payments, rather than a single lump 
sum investment, in itself reduced the risk
Even though he may not have needed any life cover, this made the plans eventual 
return tax-free, something of potential value to Mr M given he was likely to become a 
higher-rate taxpayer
 
Mr Ms representative did not agree, and said e did not agree that these plans were fit for 
purpose. This is something the regulator itself concluded when it fined the business for 
allowing its appointed representative to market these plans to young people between 
September 1998 and August 2000, something which resulted in it having to set aside nearly 
£9 million to compensate the 5,000 customers whod complained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In this case I broadly agree with the 
investigators arguments and therefore wont repeat these.
Given Sun Life upheld Mr Ms original complaint about the 1992 recommendation and paid 
compensation, this means I have considered whether it was reasonable to recommend that 
Mr M initiate a 10 year savings plan, paying £50 a month, in 1994, assuming he had no 
existing plans in place. Taking account of his documented circumstances and objectives, I 
am satisfied this was a reasonable recommendation. The fact that he retained this plan, 
along with the earlier one, for the full 10 years, indicates affordability did not prove an issue.
By the time Mr M agreed to the 1997 and 1998 recommendations, his overall income and 
savings had grown, and he had a number of financial products/assets, including life 
insurance, a mortgage, savings and shares. So, in principle, I can see no reason why he 
should not have invested further in medium term savings plans given he ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the commitment required and the drawbacks to early surrender. 
In this sense, I have seen no evidence that he was not in a position to decide whether he 
wanted to make such commitments. So while I acknowledge his representative's argument 
about the inflexibility of these plans, particularly given Mr M was still young and single, I dont 
think this alone is sufficient to uphold the complaint.
Mr M and his representative have not said, or provided evidence to indicate that Mr M did 
surrender the latter two plans because they became unaffordable. Had it done so, this is 
something I would have considered.
I do have some concern about the lack of diversification i.e. being repeatedly recommended 
to invest in the same plan with the same investment strategy and structure. But the plans 
themselves involved a diverse asset mix and Mr M did have other investments such as 
shares. So, on balance, I am not persuaded these were necessarily inappropriate 
recommendations. 
So overall I don't think there is sufficient persuasive evidence to conclude that Sun Life 
clearly did something wrong.My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman