DRN-1539670
The complaint
Mr C complains Nationwide Building Society reduced the interest rate on his account.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Nationwide in May 2019. And at that time he thought he would 
earn 5% interest on the funds held in that account. But a few months later Mr C saw the 
interest rate had reduced to 1%. Mr C was unhappy this had happened and that Nationwide 
hadn't told him before reducing the interest rate on his account. So he raised a complaint 
with Nationwide about it.
After looking in to Mr C's concerns. Nationwide issued their final response. They explained 
Mr C had previously received the 5% introductory interest rate offer when he held the same 
account with them in November 2017 to February 2019. And in November 2017, they had 
made the decision that customers can only receive that offer once. So, Mr C wasn't eligible 
with his new account. Nationwide said the terms and conditions of the account confirmed 
this. Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr C said he 
wanted the 5% interest rate reinstated and £100 for the inconvenience he experienced.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr C's complaint. He agreed with Nationwide that the terms 
and conditions of Mr C's account didn't allow customers to benefit from the 5% interest rate if 
they'd had it before. And he was satisfied Mr C had received this introductory rate when he 
had the same account from November 2017 to February 2019.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me to investigate.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr C's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he wanted, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
Our service can't tell a bank or building society what interest rates they should apply to the 
accounts they offer. But what we can look at, is whether a bank or building society has 
treated a particular customer fairly. And that involves determining whether another customer 
with similar circumstances would be treated the same way. Mr C doesn't dispute that in the 
past he's held the same type of account and benefited from the 5% introductory interest rate. 
So, I've had to determine whether Nationwide treated Mr C fairly when it reduced the interest 
rate from 5% to 1% after they realised he was no longer eligible for the higher rate due to the 
previous accounts he'd had with them.
 
 Nationwide has sent us information that shows that around the time Mr C opened his 
account, they didn't offer the introductory interest rate to customers who'd received it in the 
past. I've also seen a statement from one of Mr C's previous accounts that showed he had 
received this 5% interest rate. So I'm satisfied that when Mr C opened his account in May 
2019 he wasn't eligible for it again.
I've seen updated terms and conditions Nationwide sent to all of their customers in January 
2018. And this says a customer won't be eligible for an introductory rate if they've benefited 
from one in the past. I've also looked at what information would have been available to Mr C 
when he opened his account.
Mr C opened his account online. If some customers aren't eligible for the introductory 
interest rate, I would expect Nationwide to make this point clear before or during any 
application process. I've seen Nationwide's website, and it says the 5% interest rate won't be 
applied to an account if a customer has received this offer before. This information was set 
out and explained clearly in two places on the relevant webpage - before a potential 
customer starts the application process. So, I'm satisfied Nationwide did what they needed 
to do, to make Mr C aware he wouldn't have been eligible for the introductory offer when he 
applied for his account. If Mr C didn't read this information that was made available, I don't 
consider it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible for this.
I've noted that Mr C is unhappy Nationwide didn't contact him before reducing his interest 
rate. Nationwide hasn't disputed the fact they didn't contact him about the changes they'd be 
making to his interest rate. So, I can understand why Mr C would have been frustrated when 
he noticed his rate had been reduced. But I can't ignore the fact Mr C benefited from a 
higher rate than he was entitled to for a number of months. And, as mentioned above, I'm 
persuaded Mr C ought to have been aware of this when he opened his account.
Nationwide hasn't asked Mr C to repay the difference in interest for the period of time they 
paid the higher rate. So, I can't fairly say Nationwide's actions have caused Mr C any 
detriment. I've also not seen anything to suggest another customer, with similar 
circumstances, would have been treated differently to Mr C. And it's for these reasons I'm 
asking Nationwide to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman