DRN-1282796
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
All references to the Tesco include its agents. 
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with Tesco on 12 June 2019. His preferred method of communication 
was email.
On 15 June Tesco emailed him to ask him to provide proof of his no claims discount (NCD). 
A chaser letter was posted on 29 June to Mr Cs home address saying the policy would be 
cancelled by 9 July if the NCD wasnt provided within seven days. A further email was sent 
on 2 July 2019 asking him to provide the evidence requested. The policy was cancelled on 
16 July 2019 and Tesco says an email and letter were sent to Mr C. Mr C says he received 
the email.
Mr C called Tesco on 16 July 2019 after he received its email regarding the cancellation. He 
told Tesco he had been on holiday and this is why he hadnt submitted his NCD. Tesco told 
him it couldnt reinstate the policy, despite him now uploading proof of his NCD on its portal, 
and said hed have to take out a new policy. 
Mr C was given a new quote for around £850, his previous quote being £286.64. Ultimately 
Mr C decided to renew with another insurer for a lower premium but complained to Tesco. 
He was unhappy he couldnt reinstate his old policy and also because he was told he would 
have to declare this cancellation when taking out a new policy- which he says would impact 
his premiums. He asked for the cancellation marker to be removed from his record. 
Tesco responded to Mr Cs complaint saying it had acted fairly. It said it had emailed him on 
15 June and 2 July and had written to him on 29 June. It said it uploaded a document on Mr 
Cs online portal account on 2 July saying his policy would be cancelled if the NCD proof 
wasnt received within seven days. It also said the updated premium was calculated bearing 
in mind various risks including claims history, vehicle type etc. and that it was correctly 
calculated. 
 Mr C didnt agree and complained to us. He said he never received a letter from Tesco in 
the post and had been on holiday around the time Tesco said it had sent it to him. He said 
he received Tescos 15 June email as well as an email on 2 July but neither of them gave a 
deadline by which to submit his proof of NCD. He said he received the 16 July cancellation 
email whilst still on holiday. 
In terms of the document Tesco said it had uploaded on its online portal on 2 July 2019 
giving him a seven day deadline, Mr C said he couldnt find it. He said Tesco told him it had 
been replaced with the cancellation letter. Mr C said hed always planned to upload his proof on NCD when he was back from holiday 
and in fact did so on the day he was told his policy was cancelled. He said the cancellation 
of his policy has caused him and his family a lot of distress and that he spent a lot of time on 
the phone, whilst on holiday, speaking to Tesco and to his new insurer trying to find a new 
policy. He said his new policy cost £410 which is still a substantial increase from his Tesco 
policy. 
He said he wanted Tesco to admit it didnt give him seven days notice via email which was 
his preferred contact method. He said he wanted the cancellation removed from his record 
so it didnt affect future premiums. He said he was happy to take out a policy with another 
insurer and didnt care about having his Tesco policy reinstated. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
there was no evidence Mr C was given adequate warning before his policy was cancelled by 
Tesco via email (his preferred method of contact) which is what it says it will do in its policy 
terms. He said Tesco should remove the record of the cancellation from all internal and 
external databases and issue a letter to Mr C confirming this cancellation no longer should 
be declared to future insurers. He also said Tesco should pay Mr C £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
Tesco didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it was its administrators 
(T) responsibility to send reminder letters, and it was its system that was used to do so, not 
its own so it cant comment on anything that relates to that system. It also said it was entitled 
to cancel the policy if no proof of NCD was provided and that this was in its policy terms.
Before I issued my decision I asked our investigator to write to the parties to explain I 
wouldnt be asking Tesco to issue a letter saying Mr C doesnt have to declare the 
cancellation to future insurers. I will, however, be asking it to issue a letter to say the 
cancellation was made in error which Mr C can produce to future insurers. 
I also asked our investigator to write to Tesco to say that as Mr Cs complaint is about the 
cancellation, we consider this to be Tescos responsibility. Also, the policy says that T 
arranges the policy on Tescos behalf. I think this includes sending letters out asking for 
proof of NCD- as required by the insurer, Tesco. So I think the letters were sent on Tescos 
behalf and that T was acting as its agent in these circumstances. 
The policy defines we, our, us as the authorised insurer.  The policy also says that the 
administrator (T) on Tescos behalf, can cancel the policy for a valid reason or on serious 
grounds etc. which include not providing proof of NCD if not provided following our 
reminders. I think this further supports that the reminders were sent on Tescos behalf by T. 
I allowed more than a week to pass after writing to the parties. I received no relevant 
comments and I am now proceeding with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided to uphold it. 
The policy says that it may be cancelled if proof of NCD isnt provided further to Tescos 
reminders. And it also says that proof of NCD is one of the documents Tesco may require 
from its policyholders. It also says that if the policy is cancelled a seven day cancellation 
letter would be sent to the policyholder by their preferred method of communication. On that basis I think the request for this information (the NCD proof) was within Tescos 
policy terms which its entitled to rely on.
Where an insurer is considering cancelling a policy we expect it to provide a written warning 
to its policyholder at least seven days before cancellation. And its fair and reasonable to 
expect this warning to be communicated adequately. Tescos own policy terms say this will 
be communicated via the insureds preferred method of communication.
Mr Cs preferred method was email- Tesco accepts this. From what Ive seen the following 
correspondence was sent to Mr C:
An email on 15 June 2019 saying Tesco needs to see his NCD. The email warned 
that if this information wasnt provided the cover may be cancelled or the price 
increased but doesnt give a deadline. 
An email on 2 July 2019 saying that the NCD proof must be provided. The email 
doesnt warn about a potential cancellation. 
An email on 16 July 2019 saying the policy has been cancelled. 
From what Ive seen a letter was sent to Mr Cs home address on 29 June 2019 giving him a 
seven day deadline. He said he never received this but in any event was away on holiday at 
the time. I see that the letter was addressed correctly and, on balance, I think it was sent to 
Mr Cs address. But I also have no reason to doubt that Mr C was on holiday over that period 
and Tescos own notes say he said he had been on holiday when he called on the day the 
policy was cancelled. But even if he wasnt, as Mr Cs preferred method of communication 
was email I dont think its reasonable that this letter was posted to him and not emailed. And 
it also goes against Tescos own policy terms. So I dont think sending this letter gave Mr C 
sufficient warning about the cancellation.  
Tesco said it uploaded a document on its online portal on 2 July 2019 giving Mr C a seven 
day deadline. But other than what Tesco has said Ive seen no evidence of this. Ive seen the 
email of 2 July 2019 but as I said above it doesnt mention that the policy would be cancelled 
if the documentation isnt provided and it also doesnt give a seven day deadline. 
Tesco said that if Mr C had followed the link on the email it would have taken him to the 
documents confirming its intention to cancel through his online account. The email says that 
Mr C must send Tesco acceptable proof of NCD. It says this information hasnt been 
received yet and that he can find more information about what is acceptable as proof if he 
clicked on a link. It also says the quickest way to submit this was through his online account 
and there was a link he could follow. There was also a link asking him to register if he hadnt 
already. The email doesnt refer to another document being uploaded on the portal so even if 
Tesco had uploaded such a document, Mr C wasnt made aware. So, I dont think this email 
is adequate notice of the cancellation.
As soon as Mr C was made aware of the policy being cancelled he uploaded proof of his 
NCD and Tesco appears to have accepted it. Based on this I think if Mr C had been made 
aware of the fact that there was a limited time be which he shouldve sent in his proof of 
NCD he wouldve done so. But because he didn't, Tesco cancelled the policy. And it said it 
couldnt reinstate the old policy and as Mr C now had a cancellation on his record this was 
potentially affecting the new premium he was given which was about £650 higher than his 
previous one. 
As I dont think Mr C was given adequate warning about the potential cancellation because 
he wasnt given a deadline, the seven day deadline wasnt sent to him by his preferred 
method of contact (email), I dont think Tesco did enough to warn him that his policy would 
be cancelled. For this reason I dont think it acted fairly and reasonably when it cancelled the policy and I think it should remove any record of this cancellation from internal and external 
databases. 
I also think Tesco should write a letter explaining that the policy was cancelled in error. Mr C 
can present this to his current insurer and ask them to recalculate his premium based on this 
new information. 
I note that Mr C didn't complain to us about the difference between his Tesco premium and 
the premium calculated by his new insurer, and its possible that the two policies provide 
different levels of cover, so I don't intend to comment on that further within this decision.
Mr C said he was driving abroad at the time when his policy was cancelled. He said he had 
to spend a long time on the phone to Tesco after being made aware of the cancellation- I 
have seen that he made a number of calls and had various discussions with its advisors. He 
also said he had to then arrange a new policy with a different insurer. He said he found the 
whole experience distressing. I appreciate it wouldve been a very distressing time for Mr C 
especially as he was using his car at the time, whilst abroad, when he found himself no 
longer insured. I think Tesco should pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. 
Tesco Underwriting Limited must remove all records of the cancellation from internal and 
external databases. It must also issue a letter to Mr C saying that the cancellation was made 
in error. Finally, it should pay Mr C £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. It 
must pay this within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Tesco Underwriting Limited pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman