DRN-1298670
The complaint
Miss M complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") has unfairly charged her for insurance 
premiums following the cancellation of her policy.
What happened
In October 2018 Miss M's car was stolen. She contacted UKI, her car insurance provider, to 
let it know. But due to the low value of the vehicle and cost of the excess she decided to 
cancel her policy instead of pursuing a claim.
Around five days later Miss M's car was found with severe fire damage. A recovery agent 
collected the vehicle on instruction of the police, and invoiced UKI for recovery and storage.
UKI said the terms of Miss M's policy said in the event she made a claim, or one was made 
against her (such as the recovery agent), the full balance of the year's premium would 
become payable. And as Miss M had renewed her policy around two months before, it said it 
was now correctly requesting the remaining year's premium.
Miss M said the incident was distressing, and left her reliant on public transport and taxis to 
get around. She said she'd made a number of calls to UKI to understand what was 
happening, and has since been contacted by a debt collector as the payment hadn't been 
made. Miss M also said she never agreed for UKI to recover the vehicle. She also said it 
wasn't made aware when cancelling the policy it would still charge her for recovery fees. 
So Miss M brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened and didn't uphold it. He said it was clear UKI had incurred costs, and it logged 
these correctly as a claim. And in this situation he said the policy allowed for UKI to ask for 
the full year's premiums. The investigator also said he'd seen Miss M had called UKI, but 
these appeared to be necessary calls and didn't seem to be excessive in number.
Miss M disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Miss M cancelled her policy as she decided to not pursue a claim. And from her recollection 
of the calls with UKI it seems she was told no further premiums would be charged if a claim 
wasn't made.
I've looked at Miss M's policy carefully and under the heading "Cancellation by you" it says:
"We will not refund any premium if you have made a claim or if one has been made against 
you during the period of cover. If you have made a claim, or one has been made against 
you, the balance of the years premium will become payable..." [my emphasis]In this case UKI has provided evidence to show it has incurred costs of over £600 for 
recovery and storage of Miss M's vehicle. And so a claim was made against Miss M's 
insurance policy. So I'm satisfied UKI's advice to her was accurate, and it correctly has 
requested the remaining premiums from her.
Miss M has since said she never agreed for the vehicle to be collected. But given the nature 
of the claim, this wouldn't be a request I'd expect an insurer to put to a policyholder. The 
recovery agent was asked to collect the vehicle by the police and UKI in turn was billed for 
the work carried out.
I'm sympathetic to Miss M's situation, and I don't doubt that she's been through a stressful 
situation. But for the reasons I've given I'm satisfied UKI has acted fairly and reasonably and 
I'm not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the above reasons I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman