DRN-1944977
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
This complaint is about the 12 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr F between May 2015 
and October 2016. His borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £2,500 12/05/2015 27/04/2016
2 £200 04/08/2015 08/12/2015
3 £100 07/09/2015 14/10/2015
4 £300 14/10/2015 08/12/2015
5 £700 08/12/2015 27/04/2016
6 £200 03/01/2016 18/01/2016
7 £300 18/01/2016 23/02/2016
8 £500 23/02/2016 29/06/2016
9 £1,400 27/04/2016  
10 £700 29/04/2016  
11 £500 29/06/2016  
12 £400 17/10/2016  
 
Mr F said that the loans were unaffordable and that in order to make the repayments he 
needed to borrow more. He said the loans trapped him in a cycle of debt.
Sunny said before the loans were provided it carried out eligibility, creditworthiness and 
affordability checks to ensure the amount borrowed could be repaid without undue 
difficulties. It reviewed Mr Fs account and said that it would have been prudent to have 
contacted him before providing loan 9 to discuss his financial circumstances and establish if 
lending to him was still sustainable. It offered to uphold this complaint in regard to loans 9 to 
12. It said that Mr F hadnt repaid more than he had borrowed on these loans and so 
no refund was due. It said the loans had been sold to a third party and it would contact it and 
arrange for the balances to be written off.
Mr F didnt accept Sunnys offer and brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Sunnys offer went far enough. She thought that by loan 6 
Mr Fs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-
term loans and so upheld this complaint in regard to loans 6 to 12.Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said the repayments on the loans 
accounted for a low proportion of Mr Fs monthly income and that although he had more than 
one loan outstanding at a time this was taken into consideration. It said there was no 
evidence of detriment to Mr F and that he didnt tell it he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. It confirmed its offer in regard to loans 9 onto 12 was still available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having 
to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold loans 1 to 5. Having looked at the information provided, I agree 
that there isnt enough to say that these loans shouldnt have been provided.As well as considering the information regarding the affordability of the loans, Ive also 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr F, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I agree without adjudicator that this point 
was reached by loan 6.
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr F was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr F had taken out six loans in around seven months  at times overlapping 
with existing loans, and when repayments were made, he immediately borrowed again and 
the amounts borrowed increased. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mr F was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Fs first loan was for the largest amount and remained outstanding for a number of 
months. He was then borrowing additional amounts concurrently. His total indebtedness 
wasnt reducing and given his pattern of borrowing I think Sunny ought to have known that 
Mr F was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an 
ongoing need. This pattern continued and Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount he owed Sunny. 
I think that Mr F lost out because Sunny continued to lend from loan 6 onwards because 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Also the number of loans Mr F borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 6 onwards.
Putting things right
I am upholding this complaint in regard to loans 6 to 12. Sunny has said that loans 9 to 12 
had been transferred to a third party. It should buy these loans back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then Sunny should liaise, 
where necessary, with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
Refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on all upheld loans without an outstanding 
balance, along with 8% simple interest* on the individual payments from the date of 
payment to the date the complaint is settled.
 
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr F having made 
overpayments then these should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
 
If there is still an outstanding capital balance then the amounts calculated above 
should be used to offset this and any surplus should then be paid to Mr F.
 The overall pattern of Mr F's borrowing for loans 6 to 12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. These loans should be removed entirely from Mr F's 
credit file. Any outstanding loans do not need to be removed from Mr F's credit file  
until they have been repaid, but Sunny should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman