DRN-2967467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about a declined claim and poor customer service from AWP 
P&C SA (AWP) under their home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A hold a home emergency policy with AWP that covers them for repairs to their 
boiler. They contacted AWP in June 2020 as they had no hot water or heating. The engineer 
who attended said there was a problem with the heat exchanger and hed order the part. An 
engineer returned two days later and identified further problems that needed repairing. AWP 
also say the engineer advised Mr and Mrs A in this visit that the combustion chamber 
needed cleaning and the ignition electrodes needed replacing. It also said the system 
needed a power flush as the new part would fail otherwise. An engineer returned at the end 
of June to replace the heat exchanger, pressure sensor and pressure gauge.
Mr and Mrs A contacted AWP again in late August 2020. They said they didnt have any hot 
water or heating. They continued to chase AWP over the next few weeks but it didnt send 
an engineer until the end of September 2020. The engineer said the boiler needed a new 
heat exchanger and would return once the repair had been approved. About two weeks later 
AWP told Mr and Mrs A it wouldnt do any further work on their system because they hadnt 
completed the work its engineer had recommended in June 2020. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to AWP about the service theyd received. They said no one had 
told them about any recommendations for cleaning their boiler. And even if they had, they 
questioned why AWP hadnt told them sooner it wouldnt do any further work. 
By mid-October, the temperature was falling and Mr and Mrs A paid a private engineer to 
repair their boiler. They say the private engineer didnt think the boiler needed cleaning and 
said the problem was that the heat exchanger had been fitted incorrectly so it had broken 
again. Mr and Mrs A also said there was a ruptured expansion vessel that AWP hadnt 
identified. They paid about £650 for the repairs. 
In response to the complaint, AWP said the poor communication Mr and Mrs A had 
experienced was completely unacceptable. It gave Mr and Mrs A £75 as a gesture of 
goodwill and to apologise. 
Our investigator didnt think AWP needed to do anything more. She said Mr and Mrs As 
policy didnt cover maintenance work. She said AWP made them aware of the work that 
needed doing and while she recognised they didnt agree with that, she thought it more likely 
than not that the engineer had made them aware of the work that needed to be done. As 
such, she thought the offer of £75 was a fair amount and she wouldnt ask AWP to do 
anything further.
As Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision. I didnt agree with the investigators findings. So, I sent a provisional decision to 
Mr and Mrs A and AWP to explain why I intended to come to a different outcome to the 
investigator. AWP didnt respond. Mr and Mrs A provided evidence of the costs theyd 
incurred and accepted my decision. As such, my findings and decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs As home emergency policy says AWP is entitled to refuse to help if the policy 
holders home or services have not been maintained in a safe or serviceable condition. It 
also says the insurance policy isnt a maintenance contract and one of the exclusions notes 
that the policy doesnt cover any wilful act, or something the policy holder fails to do that 
causes an emergency.
So, I think its reasonable for AWP to refuse to help a policy holder if they failed to do 
something it had specifically asked them to do that had then caused an emergency. But, in 
that situation, I think it would only be fair for AWP to refuse to help if it made it very clear to 
the policy holder what needed to be done and what the consequence would be if they didnt 
do it. In this case, and from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think AWP did either of those two 
things. 
The disputed conversation happened during the second visit by an AWP engineer in 
June 2020. The relevant note from the engineer says:
Work Completed: Domestic hot water supply is intermittent due to a faulty plate heat 
exchanger. The pressure Gauge was observed to be fluctuating from zero pressure to all 
over but the boiler is still firing, the pressure sensor seems to be faulty as well. We need to 
replace the dhw sensor, plate heat exchanger and the pressure sensor. The condensate trap 
was cleaned and found to be really dirty, it was full of residue coming out of the combustion 
chamber. Ph has advised that the combustion chamber is in need of cleaning and the 
ignition electrodes will also need replacing in future.
There was also a further note on that visit that reads as follows:
Further recommendations by trade  The condensate trap was cleaned and found to be 
really dirty, it was full of residue coming out of the combustion chamber. The combustion 
chamber is in need of cleaning and the ignition electrodes will also need replacing in future. 
Trade advised that it needs a new plate as it is completely blocked with sludge and needs a 
power flush. If the part is replaced it will fail soon.
The wording of the first note is unclear and reads as though the policy holder (ph) advised 
the engineer that the boiler needed cleaning. I assume this is a typo and Ph has advised 
should have been Ph was advised. So, giving AWP the benefit of doubt, the engineer says 
he advised Mr and Mrs A that the combustion chamber was in need of cleaning and the 
ignition electrodes would also need replacing in future. I dont think thats very specific. Its 
ambiguous about when the work needs to be done and by whom. And most importantly, 
theres nothing to say what might happen if they didnt do the work.The further note by trade does say what would happen if the part is replaced without a 
powerflush. But theres no indication in the records Ive seen that the further note was ever 
relayed to Mr and Mrs A. And, even if it was, theres no indication again that Mr and Mrs A 
were told what might happen if they failed to do this work. 
AWP then sent an engineer to Mr and Mrs As property again five days later, towards the 
end of June 2020. The note of that visit says the engineer Replaced plate heat exchanger, 
dhw sensor, pressure Gauge. Theres no mention of a need to replace the ignition 
electrodes or clean the combustion chamber. And if the engineer thought that necessary, Id 
expect him to repeat that message at that point.
Mr and Mrs A are adamant they werent told that they were responsible for carrying out 
further work on their boiler. Mr A says hes 100% sure the engineer didnt tell him what AWP 
allege was said. So, the evidence is conflicting and I cant say for sure what was said when 
the engineers attended in June 2020. But, on balance and based on the evidence that is 
available, I dont think AWP made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs A what they needed to 
do or what would happen if they failed to do that. 
Mr and Mrs A are also unhappy that AWP didnt tell them sooner why it had decided not to 
do any further work on their boiler. When they contacted AWP in late August 2020, the 
response was slow. AWPs file notes from September 2020 show that it believed the further 
work recommended from a previous claim hadnt been done and that further work now would 
be unusual. But even after the engineer visited in late September, it wasnt until two weeks 
afterwards that AWP told Mr and Mrs A that it wasnt going to do any further work on their 
boiler because they hadnt completed the further work it had recommended in June 2020. In 
between times, Mr and Mrs A made numerous calls to find out what was happening and all 
the while, their family were without hot water and heating.
So, in summary, I dont think AWP acted fairly or reasonably in refusing to do any further 
work on Mr and Mrs As boiler. On balance, and based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that 
was unfair and unjustified. The impact on Mr and Mrs A was that they were without hot water 
and heating for longer than was necessary. And that was compounded by poor 
communication from AWP. It failed to keep them up to date with what was going on and it 
took them about six weeks to notify them that it wouldnt be doing any further work on their 
boiler. This caused further trouble and upset.
Putting things right
AWP acknowledged its communication was unacceptable and it offered to pay Mr and Mrs A 
£75 by way of an apology. But I think it needs to do more to put things right.
After AWP refused to do any further work on Mr and Mrs As boiler, they decided to pay a 
private engineer to do the repairs. I think that was a reasonable thing to do in the 
circumstances. Theyd complained to AWP but hadnt received a response. Theyd also 
been without heating or hot water for a long period of time and the weather was starting to 
get colder. The private engineer assessed the situation and repaired the boiler, charging 
about £650 for his services. Mr and Mrs A have provided invoices as evidence of the 
payments they made to the private engineer. This is work AWP would have been able to do 
had it decided to attend. And, as I think the decision not to attend was unfair, I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for AWP to reimburse Mr and Mrs A for the cost of repairing their 
boiler.
I also think AWP should compensate Mr and Mrs A for the trouble and upset its caused. Not 
only for the decision to stop doing any further work on their boiler, but also for the delay in 
telling them why it wasnt going to attend. This poor service was compounded by the poor communication throughout the claim. This needlessly put Mr and Mrs A and their family in a 
difficult situation and I think a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint would be 
for AWP to pay Mr and Mrs A £500 for the impact caused by its poor service. Mr and Mrs A 
have confirmed they never accepted or received the £75 offered by AWP so Ive not taken 
that amount into account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and direct AWP P&C 
SA to pay Mr and Mrs A the following:
£650 to reimburse them for the cost of repairing their boiler. Plus 8% simple interest 
from the date they paid the private engineer to the date it makes payment1. 
£500 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs A a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.