The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the actions of Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading 
as Very) in relation to her credit account.
What happened
Mrs S had an account with Shop Direct. She purchased items using the Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) facility offered on the account. In July 2019, Mrs S received her account statement 
and was surprised by the amount of interest that had been added. She called Shop Direct 
and asked for a spreadsheet showing a breakdown of the account. She also complained 
about the interest rate that had been applied. 
Shop Direct sent Mrs S its final response to her complaint in August 2019. They explained 
that the interest had been applied to the account in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions. Mrs S has said she did not receive this final response, and only found out it had 
been issued when speaking to Shop Direct in October 2019. Mrs S remained unsatisfied, 
and was also unhappy that Shop Direct had not sent her the breakdown of her account. 
Mrs S cleared her account balance at this point and then brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought that the interest had been charged in line with the terms of the 
account and that the amount Mrs S had owed was correctly shown on her account 
statements. She also thought that, although Mrs S had not received it, Shop Direct had sent 
its final response to her complaint within a reasonable time period. The investigator did 
consider that Shop Direct should have sent Mrs S the breakdown of the account she had 
requested, and that Shop Direct had agreed to send, but that this did not impact the amount 
Mrs S owed. Whilst our investigator did not think Mrs S had suffered financially, she did 
recommend that Shop Direct should send Mrs S the breakdown of the interest calculation. 
Whist Mrs S accepted that the interest had been charged in line with the terms and 
conditions, she remained unhappy about the inconvenience and upset caused to her by 
Shop Direct's handling of the situation. She said she had called Shop Direct numerous 
times, but they had not provided the assistance she expected. 
Mrs S's complaint was therefore passed to me for a decision. Having considered all of the 
evidence, I largely agreed with the outcome. But I did think Mrs S had been caused 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. So as well as providing Mrs S with the breakdown of 
the account, I thought Shop Direct should pay her £100 compensation.
I considered that although the interest had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions, it was clear that Mrs S did not fully understand the mechanism behind this.
DRN-1933005The BNPL allows customers to delay paying for certain transactions for up to 12 months. 
Interest accrues on the balance of the transaction from the date of the transaction, and is 
compounded every 28 days. The amount of interest is then added as a lump sum at the end 
of the delayed payment period. If the full cost of the transaction is paid off by the end of the 
delayed period, no interest on the amount of the transaction is payable.
Mrs S was seemingly not aware of this. And, although the terms and conditions do set this 
out, it doesn't appear Mrs S was ever referred to these terms by Shop Direct. Or that Shop 
Direct provided the breakdown it agreed to give Mrs S. Had it done so, I think this would 
have enabled Mrs S to understand the level of interest that was added to her account. And 
this in turn would have reduced the upset she was experiencing and would have meant she 
would not have had to repeated call Shop Direct. 
I explained this to Shop Direct and asked them for any comments they had, but they did not 
respond. Mrs S said she was happy to receive the £100 settlement and the breakdown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has accepted the interest on her balance was applied in line with the terms of her 
account. But she remains unhappy with Shop Direct's handling of the situation. As such, this 
decision is focussed on those actions. 
I do note that Shop Direct provided Mrs S with account statements showing what she owed 
on her account. However, these did not clearly explain how that balance had been 
calculated.
I also note that the terms of her credit agreement explain the basis by which interest accrues 
on transactions purchased using BNPL. However, Shop Direct does not seem to have 
directed Mrs S to look at these terms for this explanation. The final response Shop Direct 
sent did mention the terms and conditions, but only referred to these explaining how to avoid 
interest being payable. Given the interest had already been incurred, I don't think it would be 
reasonable to expect this reference to provide Mrs S with the clarity she was seeking on how 
the amount of interest had been calculated.
Shop Direct did not mention that the terms also set out the mechanism behind the interest. 
Significantly, at no point did Shop Direct explicitly mention to Mrs S that interest was charged 
from the date of the transaction or that the interest was compounded.
Had Shop Direct provided Mrs S with this information or with the breakdown it said it would 
provide her with, I think this would have meant Mrs S would not have contacted Shop Direct 
on repeated occasions. And that she would have understood how it came to be that the level 
of interest she was charged was applied to her account. 
I consider it was reasonable to expect Shop Direct to provide Mrs S with the information she 
requested in the course of her complaint. And that Shop Direct's failure to provide this has 
caused Mrs S distress and inconvenience that otherwise could have been avoided.
Putting things right
Shop Directed Finance Company Limited should put this right by paying Mrs S £100 
compensation and by providing her with a breakdown of her account, which should in part 
set out how the interest she was charged was calculated.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
should put things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman