DRN-3353309
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC loaded a fraud marker against him on the
National Fraud Database. Hed like it removed and compensation.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr P applied for a mortgage with Barclays. However the application was
rejected, and in November 2016 Barclays decided to load a negative marker against Mr P on
the National Fraud Database for application fraud. In recording the marker Barclays
explained that on applying for a mortgage Mr P had provided fraudulent documentation.
In 2020, when attempting to obtain financial products for a business hes a director of, Mr P
discovered the marker and complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into Mr Ps complaint  however they didnt uphold it. They thought that
theyd acted fairly in loading a marker against Mr P.
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service.
Mr P explained that hes a director of four limited companies, and as part of this role hes
applied for bounce back loans which he thinks werent successful because of the marker. He
believes the limited companies hes a director of could have stopped trading. And the marker
has also negatively impacted on his mental health.
Mr Ps also explained that hes aware an additional marker was loaded with a second fraud
prevention agency.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint, and upheld it. She asked Barclays for
evidence of why they thought Mr P had provided fraudulent documentation  Barclays
explained theyd carried out additional checks at the time of Mr Ps mortgage application and
this showed some of the documents provided were fraudulent. However the bank explained
they dont have these documents anymore. Our investigator concluded that although she
thought Barclays likely had sufficient evidence to initially load the marker, they should now
remove it. Barclays accepted the recommendation and confirmed in October 2021 the
marker had been removed.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
Mr P explained that he didnt agree that Barclays had sufficient evidence to initially load the
marker and he wasnt satisfied the impact on him had been fairly considered.
Our investigator asked Mr P for evidence of the impact on him personally from the marker
including any rejected applications for financial products  however nothing was provided.
Because Mr P didnt accept our investigators conclusion the case was passed to me for a
decision.
In reviewing Mr Ps decision I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I 
recommended that Barclays pay Mr P £250 in compensation for the error in loading the 
marker. Barclays accepted, but Mr P didnt. In response he said:
He doesnt think Barclays carried out due diligence
Its unacceptable that Barclays lost the evidence and accused him of such a serious 
crime.
Its not fair hes had to prove his innocence
He doesnt agree that his businesses are separate to him
£250 to Barclays is a very small amount
As Mr P didnt agree Ive reviewed by outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Barclays have removed the negative fraud marker from Mr Ps record because of a lack of
evidence that any fraudulent documents were provided. However, its important for me to
consider whether Barclays had sufficient evidence to load the negative marker in
November 2016. I appreciate that Barclays have explained that at the time of loading the
marker theyd carried out due diligence to check if the documents supplied by Mr P were
authentic  and theyd been advised this wasnt the case.
However the relevant guidance says to load a marker:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Barclays accept that theyre unable to provide any evidence to meet the above test.
Therefore, Im satisfied that without any evidence, Barclays havent met these requirements.
It follows, I think the bank acted unfairly in loading the marker.
Barclays have confirmed that the marker on the National Fraud Database has been
removed, however considering the lack of evidence provided to support their position Id
expect any fraud markers that have been recorded due to this, to be removed.
Ive moved on to consider the impact on Mr P. Mr Ps explained that he has four businesses
which have been detrimentally impacted by the marker  and potentially they could have
ceased trading due to not being able to obtain bounce back loans. I understand this will be
disappointing to Mr P but as our investigator explained because the businesses Mr Ps
referred to are limited companies these are separate legal entities to Mr P. Mr Ps brought
this complaint as an individual  based on his relationship with Barclays  not on behalf of
his businesses, therefore, Im unable to consider the impact on them. The limited companieswould also not be able to complain to our service about Barclays actions, because the
marker was loaded against Mr P in his personal capacity.
However, Im able to consider the impact of the incorrectly loaded marker on Mr P. Mr P
explained to our investigator that during the time period the marker was loaded he hasnt
been rejected for credit in his personal capacity. And hes not provided any additional 
evidence to show the impact on him. However, I think its clear that in between Mr P
discovering the marker and Barclays agreeing to remove it, he suffered distress. This
included being concerned about his personal reputation and why the bank had recorded it
against him.
In recognition of the distress caused to Mr P I think Barclays should pay him £250.
Provisional decision response
My P didnt agree with my provisional decision, in response he highlighted a number of 
points including he doesnt think Barclays carried out due diligence and he doesnt think they 
lost the evidence  instead they didnt have any. Id like to reiterate the conclusion I reached 
in my provisional decision. In this decision I explained that because Barclays havent been 
able provide any evidence I dont think they met the burden of proof required to load a 
marker in November 2016. This doesnt mean I think they lost the evidence, instead theyve 
not provided me with evidence to show Mr P made a fraudulent application and therefore I 
dont think the acted fairly. And as Mr P has highlighted it follows I dont think they carried 
out sufficient due diligence. Mr Ps also argued that £250 isnt a high amount of 
compensation for Barclays to pay  I understand why hes saying this. But it isnt our 
services role to punish businesses, were not the regulator. Thats the responsibility of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And Im awarding compensation based on the impact of 
the banks actions. 
I understand Mr P sees his businesses as part of him  but as Ive explained they are limited 
companies and therefore separate legal entities to Mr P. This means I cant consider the 
impact on them from Barclays actions.
Overall, I see no reason to amend the level of compensation I recommended in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision I think that £250 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress Mr P was caused by Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mr P £250 in compensation
Remove all fraud markers recorded against Mr P because of the mortgage 
application in October 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jeff BurchOmbudsman