DRN-3105524
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc closed his accounts and havent released money 
held in the accounts back to him. Hes also unhappy about the service provided by 
Santander. 
What happened
Mr B had two accounts with Santander.
  
In December 2018,  Santander blocked Mr Bs accounts while it carried out a review after 
two payments of £800 and just over £3,000 were paid into his account. As part of the review 
Santander asked Mr B for more information about the payments, who sent him the money 
and why hed received the funds. 
Mr B explained that the payment for just over £3,000 had been given to him by a family 
friend, Miss H, and had been given to him to pay for Christmas expenses and a holiday. And 
the £800 was from another family friend. Santander asked Mr B to provide evidence to 
support his explanation. Mr B sent Santander a copy of Miss Hs bank statement, which was 
redacted and didnt show the origin of the funds and a letter from Miss H saying shed sent 
Mr B the money. Mr B didnt provide Santander with anything to support his explanation 
about the smaller payment. 
Santander reviewed the paperwork Mr B had provided but wasnt happy that it showed Mr B 
was entitled to the funds, so in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations it 
didnt release the money to him. Following this, in January 2019, Santander decided to close 
Mr Bs account.
Mr B complained to our service. Hes said the money paid into his account belongs to him 
and hes now out of pocket. He explained that being without his money had made it difficult 
to make ends meet. So, he wants Santander to release the funds and pay him compensation 
for the trouble and upset hes suffered. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and asked him for more information 
about the payments made into his account. Mr B didnt provide any information but said the 
money had been given to him by family friends overseas.   
The investigator considered Mr Bs explanation, but she didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. She said Santander were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
and had closed Mr Bs account in line with the terms of the accounts and relevant 
regulations. She also didnt think Santander had provided Mr B with poor service. Mr B 
disagreed. He said wants his money returned to him. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block Mr Bs access to the money paid into his 
account in December 2018. As the investigator has already explained, Santander has 
extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account 
services to customers. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking 
place on accounts and ask customers for information about payments  its entitled and 
obliged to carry out such checks to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from 
financial crime such as fraud. The terms of Mr Bs accounts also permit Santander to block 
payments, accounts and ask its customers for information. So, I cant say Santander did 
anything wrong when it blocked Mr Bs accounts. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mr Bs account and ask him for information about the two payments.  
Having looked at the activity on Mr Bs account statements I can see that the two payments 
were out of character. Mr B had not previously received any large payments and the account 
was normally funded by cash deposits and had an average balance of less than £500 since 
2017. So, I can understand why Santander had concerns about the payments and wanted to 
find out more about them.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he wants Santander to release the money that was paid 
into his account to him. Ive looked at the evidence Mr B has provided which he says shows 
he is entitled to the money. But the statement of Miss Hs account is redacted. So, it doesnt 
provide all the information Santander requested. I note too that Mr B has refused to provide 
any information regarding the £800 payment. Its not clear to me why Mr B has taken this 
stance  if as he says hes entitled to the money. 
It maybe that Mr B can now provide more information about the funds. But, in the 
circumstances, I can understand why Santander didnt consider Mr B had adequately 
explained his entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mr B unfairly 
when it decided not to release the money to him. Im satisfied it was entitled to make this 
decision, doing so in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, I dont consider theres 
any basis on which I can fairly and reasonably require Santander to release the funds to 
Mr B. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Bs accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Mr Bs accounts with 30 days notice. Having looked at all the evidence, in 
my view that wasnt unreasonable given the banks concerns about how Mr B was operating 
his accounts. Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and relevant 
regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly when 
it closed his accounts.
 
Mr B is also unhappy about the level of service Santander provided to him when he was 
trying to sort things out with the bank. Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation 
on 7 December 2018 that Mr B had with Santander where the bank asked Mr B about the 
activity on his account.  The advisor explained to Mr B why the bank thought the activity 
appeared out of character and asked Mr B questions which in my view were reasonable and necessary so that the bank could ensure it was complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations  such as why Mr B had received the payments. 
Its clear that during the call, Mr B was annoyed. He raised his voice and talked over the 
advisor. In response, the advisor was polite, listened to Mr B and tried to be helpful by 
explaining the banks concerns and what information Mr B needed to provide. So, I cant 
Santander provided Mr B with poor service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman