DRN-2700778
The complaint
Mr H complains he wasnt the first registered keeper of a replacement car Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) provided to him when he made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy following his car being declared a total loss.
The complaint has been dealt with by the insurance broker on behalf of Advantage, but Ill 
refer to Advantage throughout the decision as this is who the complaint is about as it is the 
underwriter of the policy. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in a car accident in 2019. He contacted Advantage to make a claim under 
his motor insurance policy. Advantage declared the car a total loss. As the car was less than 
12 months old, he was entitled to have his car replaced with another new car. Advantage 
ordered a new car from its supplier, but when it arrived, it had already been registered, 
making Mr H the second legal owner on the logbook. Mr H complained about this.
Advantage said the error was caused by the suppliers of the vehicle and that Mr H shouldve 
been provided with a new vehicle. However, it said the car was essentially new, and only 
had delivery mileage on it. It was due to an error that the car was registered before being 
transferred to Mr H. Advantage said that this would have little to no impact on the value of 
the car. And as it believed Mr H didnt intend to keep the car past the expiry of the finance 
agreement and would be handing it back, there was no loss to Mr H. It explained that it had 
spoken with the finance provider who had agreed not to penalise Mr H for the fact that the 
replacement car has Mr H registered as the second keeper. 
Advantage offered Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused, but 
it wasnt willing to replace the car. Mr H didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into it. Our investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be looked at 
by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy allows for a new car to be provided to him if his car is deemed a total loss 
within the first 12 months which was the case here. Mr Hs main argument is that this wasnt 
new as he is the second registered keeper. I agree with Advantage though that the car was 
essentially new, it was provided to Mr H with just delivery mileage on it and had only been 
registered to the initial dealer. 
Our role is to put things right when a financial loss has occurred. In this situation Mr H thinks 
hes lost out because of not being the first registered keeper. Ive thought about this, but I 
dont think hes suffered a loss because of this. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that had he bought this car new, it wouldve been £9,000 more expensive than a 
car which had been pre-registered. This may be correct, but the comparison Mr H is making 
here doesnt quite work. Hes comparing this to a brand-new car before he becomes the first 
registered owner. Cars are known for losing their value once they are registered. So, 
whether this occurred just before Mr H took delivery of the vehicle or on delivery when Mr H 
became the registered owner, as soon as Mr H took delivery, it would likely have dropped in 
value due to it being registered. Plus, Mr Hs original vehicle (which was written off) was 
registered, so I think that is the better comparator for how much the car should be worth. 
And Ive not been provided with any evidence to show that the new vehicle would be worth 
less than his original vehicle.
Advantage has confirmed its spoken with the finance provider which has agreed to transfer 
this new car to the credit agreement and that Mr H will not suffer financially because of this. 
Its unclear whether Mr H will keep this vehicle at the end of the finance agreement. 
Advantage has explained that its experts dont think having a second registered keeper will 
have a significant impact on the value of the car, if any. But I also need to factor in that the 
car he now has was registered some months after his original car, making it in effect slightly 
newer. I think any impact on the valuation from having a second registered owner will more 
likely than not be negated by the fact that the replacement car is slightly newer.
Overall, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr H has suffered a financial loss here.
Its clear this was a frustrating time for Mr H. He was expecting to be the first registered 
keeper and he wasnt. Plus, this has taken some time for him to try to resolve. But I also 
have to bear in mind that the Coronavirus pandemic would also have had an impact on 
Advantages ability to resolve this matter and this is something which is outside of 
Advantages control. Advantage has offered £200 compensation which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not going to ask it to pay anything further. 
My final decision
Whilst I recognise Mr H feels strongly about this matter, my final decision is I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman