DRN-1239507
 
The complaint
Miss B and Mr W are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim under 
their buildings insurance for damage caused by damp. 
What happened
Miss B and Mr W had buildings insurance with UKI. For ease, I will refer only to Miss B 
throughout my decision.
Miss B thought a leak was causing water stains on her bedroom walls so she asked a 
roofing company to identify the source of the leak. On its second visit the roofing company 
told her it needed to remove part of her ceiling to try to find the leak. Miss B contacted her 
insurer, UKI, before the roofing company did any work. She says UKI told her it couldnt say 
whether it would approve a claim until it knew the source of the problem. 
Miss B let the roofing company remove part of the ceiling for inspection. Its report said the 
damage was the result of condensation running down the walls. The company described the 
space above the ceiling as having poor workmanship, with incorrectly fitted insulation and a 
lack of ventilation. Because of this, it said damp had formed and condensation had run down 
the walls causing the stains.
Miss B made a claim to UKI and sent it the roofing companys report. UKI declined her claim 
because the roofer confirmed the damage was caused by poor workmanship. UKI explained 
that there was a specific exclusion in her buildings insurance policy for poor workmanship. 
Miss B complained about the decision but she felt that UKI hadnt logged her complaint 
properly or followed the correct process. UKI maintained its decision on the claim but it paid 
Miss B £100 in recognition of its failure to register her complaint or follow its process 
correctly. 
Miss B remains unhappy and as a resolution to her complaint she would like UKI to damp 
proof and paint the bedroom walls and repair the ceiling in her bedroom.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments Miss B made, along with the original 
evidence. While I realise this isnt the outcome she had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.Firstly, it seems there isnt a dispute about the facts of the case. Both Miss B and UKI accept 
that because of damp in the roof space, condensation ran down the bedroom walls causing 
stains. Both parties also accept that Miss B let a roofing company remove part of her 
bedroom ceiling so it could inspect the roof space before she made her claim. Miss B 
acknowledges that UKI couldnt say whether or not it would accept the claim until she knew 
the cause of the damage, which both parties later agreed was caused by poor workmanship.
The point that remains is whether it was fair for UKI to decline the claim. Ive looked at the 
reason it gave which was that the policy doesnt cover poor workmanship. This is specifically 
mentioned in the policy:
"This policy doesn't cover
Just like most insurers we don't cover:
- any damage caused gradually.
- faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials."
 
Both parties agreed the damage was caused by poor workmanship so Im satisfied that it 
was fair for UKI to decline the claim for the reason it gave.
In response to our investigators view, Miss B made some additional comments which Ill 
address here.
Miss B didnt think it was fair that the insurance policy excluded poor workmanship without 
defining the period it covered. She felt the policy wouldnt cover anything because poor 
workmanship couldve dated back to when the property was built almost 100 years before. I 
understand the point Miss B is making but I wouldnt expect the exclusion to apply to every 
claim. Buildings insurance is there to cover loss due to unforeseen, usually one-off insurable 
events. It is not intended to cover costs incurred because of any failure to maintain a 
property or for ongoing damage caused by poor workmanship. So if, for example, a storm 
damaged the roof, UKI may accept a claim for the damage specifically caused by the storm 
regardless of whether the insulation happened to be incorrectly fitted. This is because it was 
a storm, not poor workmanship, which caused the damage. Im satisfied that the exclusion 
clause for poor workmanship doesnt mean the policy is unfair.
Ive noted Miss Bs reference to standard practice when handling claims in instances of 
gradual damage. However, UKI declined the claim giving poor workmanship as its reason, 
not because of gradual damage. I can see why Miss B thought that the gradual damage 
exclusion may have been relevant in her circumstances  the damp caused condensation to 
build up over time. However, poor workmanship caused the damp - both parties agreed on 
this - and poor workmanship is not an insurable peril. Im satisfied that it was fair for UKI to 
decline Miss Bs claim in line with the exclusion clause for poor workmanship.
Finally, Miss B complained about UKIs failure to log her complaint and follow the correct 
process. UKI hasnt disputed this. I can see that UKI promptly referred Miss B to our service 
which came as a surprise to her. When an insurer recognises that a complaint wont be 
resolved its expected to refer its customer to our service. However, I dont doubt that Miss B 
was surprised by what mustve felt like a sudden end to the process. UKI paid £100 to Miss 
B by way of apology. I consider the compensation to be fair and wouldnt expect UKI to do 
any more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman