DRN-4379737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AllClear Insurance Services Ltd mis-sold them a travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr M sought AllClears advice in relation to a travel insurance 
policy for him and Mrs M. They had cruises planned in August 2022 and            
November 2022. Mr M disclosed several medical conditions, including impaired kidney 
function requiring dialysis. 
AllClear recommended an annual travel insurance policy starting in May 2022, 
underwritten by a third party insurer. Unfortunately, Mr M was unfit to travel so               
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip in November 2022. The insurer settled Mr and Mrs Ms 
cancellation claim in part. It paid the trip costs and car parking costs. It didnt pay the 
non-refundable fee Mr M had paid for dialysis during the trip, as it said that it wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
Another ombudsman considered Mr and Mrs Ms claim against the insurer and didnt 
uphold it. Mr and Mrs M also complained to AllClear about the sale of the policy. They 
said that they wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd been told that the cost of Mr Ms  
dialysis treatment wasnt included in the cover. 
In response to the complaint, AllClear said that whilst Mr M had declared that he had 
impaired kidney function and required dialysis, he didnt say that he required ongoing 
dialysis whilst abroad. It said that if hed done so, it would have directed him to the 
exclusion in the policy which says that theres no cover for medication or treatment thats 
known to be required or continued outside the insureds home country. 
Mr and Mrs M want AllClear to refund the cost of pre-paid, unused dialysis treatment, 
pay compensation for their stress and to ensure theres no repetition of mis-selling.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AllClear  
mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs M. The investigator said that Mr M didnt tell AllClear 
that he wanted cancellation cover for pre-booked medical treatments. She said that 
AllClear advised Mr and Mrs M to read the terms of the policy and its clear in the 
documentation whats covered in the event of cancellation. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. Mr M said that the policy doesnt 
specifically exclude pre-paid medical treatments. Mr M said that whilst AllClear wasnt 
aware that his dialysis was prepaid, equally, he wasnt aware that it wouldnt be covered. 
He says that as he told AllClear that he required dialysis it should have been aware that 
he required dialysis whilst on a cruise. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms position. Through no fault of their own, 
they had to cancel a trip and are out-of-pocket in relation to Mr Ms pre-paid dialysis 
treatment. Having said that, I dont uphold their complaint because I dont think that AllClear 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
AllClear gave Mr and Mrs M advice about their travel insurance policy, so it was obliged to 
make sure that its recommendation was suitable for their demands and needs.
Ive listened to the sales call in February 2022. Mr M disclosed several medical conditions, 
including impaired kidney function requiring dialysis. Its clear that Mr and Mrs M were 
taking great care about disclosing medical conditions. But Mr M didnt say that he planned 
to pre-pay for dialysis treatment which hed have whilst on a trip. I dont think it should 
have been obvious to AllClear that Mr M wanted cancellation cover for pre-paid medical 
treatment. Ive thought about this carefully. On balance, based on the information available 
to AllClear, I dont think that its recommendation to Mr and Mrs M was unsuitable. 
Ive looked at the information AllClear made available to Mr and Mrs M. It directed            
Mr and Mrs M to the policy wording, so that they could ensure that the policy met their 
needs. I think that the cancellation section of the policy clearly sets out that in certain 
circumstances it covers the costs of travel, accommodation, excursions and activities. The 
policy doesnt provide cancellation cover for the cost of planned medical treatment. And 
one of the general exclusions says that the policy doesnt cover  any other loss 
connected to the event you are claiming for unless we specifically provide cover under this 
policy. I think that AllClear provided Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information to enable 
them to check whether the policy met their needs. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
AllClear to refund the cost of Mr Ms pre-paid, unused dialysis treatment or to pay            
Mr and Mrs M compensation. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman