DRN-4080633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled their bank 
account.
Mr and Mrs B want Lloyds to apologise, amend their credit files and pay compensation for 
the distress caused. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made an ATM withdrawal on 5 October 2020 which didnt appear on their 
account until 8 October 2020. Mr and Mrs B say that because of this, their account became 
overdrawn in the intervening period as payments debited the account. 
Lloyds says that the withdrawal was made using an ATM operated by a third party, so any 
delay was the responsibility of the third party.
Mr and Mrs B originally complained to Lloyds in October 2020. Lloyds say that Mr and Mrs B 
decided to visit a branch to discuss their concerns further. Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds 
offered them £25 not to pursue their complaint. Lloyds allowed Mr and Mrs B to access their 
benefits payment and recommended that they speak to the customer support unit for further 
help.
In 2020 and 2021, Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs B to repay the outstanding balance but didnt 
hear back. So, Lloyds closed Mr and Mrs Bs account and passed the outstanding debt to a 
third party for collection. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. In summary, 
the investigator didnt think that Lloyds was responsible for the delayed debit from the 
account. The investigator said that it was the customers responsibility to make sure there 
was enough money in the account to cover committed outgoings. 
The investigator thought Lloyds tried to support Mr and Mrs B by allowing them to withdraw 
their benefits despite the unauthorised overdraft. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs B 
had had access to the funds. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
close the account to make sure the debt didnt increase. The investigator thought Lloyds 
offer of compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs B disagree with the investigation outcome. They say that Lloyds admitted twice 
that it was to blame for the delay debiting the ATM withdrawal. Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds 
was aware that their account was overdrawn. Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds offered them 
£25 to not pursue their complaint which they decided not to accept due to the way theyd 
been spoken to.
Mr and Mrs B say that they suggested Lloyds pay them £50 as they calculated their account 
would be overdrawn by around £33 by the end of the week.
Mr and Mrs B point out theyd never had an issue with the ATM they used and think that 
Lloyds is trying to place the blame on the third party despite Lloyds previously admitting that 
it was at fault.
Mr and Mrs B say that if Lloyds wont agree to pay compensation, they would settle for the 
debt being written off and their credit file being amended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But 
this doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
From reading the customer notes that Lloyds has provided, it does appear that Lloyds 
previously agreed that it made a mistake with the ATM withdrawal. However, Im persuaded 
that its more likely that a problem with the ATM meant that Lloyds wasnt aware of the 
withdrawal until a few days later as this was the date on which the withdrawal appeared on 
Lloyds records. As the ATM was controlled by a third party, I dont think Lloyds was at fault 
for the delay.
Even if I was to agree that Lloyds was at fault with the withdrawal, it wouldnt change the 
outcome of this complaint. I say this because I think Mr and Mrs B had a responsibility to 
manage their account. Lloyds records indicate that they frequently accessed the account 
online, including on the days between making the withdrawal and the withdrawal appearing 
on their account. So, I wouldve reasonably expected Mr and Mrs B to notice that the 
balance of their account hadnt decreased in line with the cash withdrawal. 
Although Mr and Mrs B didnt have an arranged overdraft facility on the account, Lloyds can 
still let customers borrow through an unarranged overdraft  as happened here and on 
several other occasions. Like the investigator, Im satisfied that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs B 
reasonably when it allowed them to access their benefit payments, particularly as these 
payments wouldve cleared the overdraft. Lloyds also tried to signpost Mr and Mrs B to the 
customer service unit which couldve helped them set up an arrangement to pay. Again, I 
think this shows that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. 
There has been some confusion over Lloyds offer of compensation. Lloyds records indicated 
that it offered £25 but along the way, there was mention of £50. Mr and Mrs B have clarified 
the situation to this service. They explain that Lloyds initially offered £25 and that it was Mr 
and Mrs B who mentioned £50 in branch because at that time, they thought it wouldve 
brought the account back in credit. 
I consider £50 adequately reflects the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs B 
when dealing with Lloyds. If Mr and Mrs B accept my decision, Lloyds should pay this 
amount to them. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B would like Lloyds to write the debt off and amend their credit file 
but I dont require it to do this. Mr and Mrs B have had the benefit of the money lent and their 
credit file should be an accurate reflection of the way theyve managed their account. 
My final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer which I think is fair in all the circumstances. So, my final 
decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs B £50. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman