DRN-4398394
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motorbike insurer Ageas Insurance Limited regarding a total 
loss settlement offered when his bike was stolen.
What happened
Mr Ss bike was stolen in May 2023. Ageas accepted the claim and looked to settle it as a 
total loss. In a final response letter dated 21 June 2023 it told Mr S that it was satisfied a fair 
market value for his motorbike was an average of two valuations returned from motor 
guides, less 15% because his motorbike had been stolen and recovered previously. It said 
that claim (made with another insurer) was still showing incorrectly on industry records (as 
unrecovered)  so it wouldnt pay its settlement  £4,772 (the average, minus 15%) less the 
policy excess  until that was corrected.
Mr S was unhappy. He complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he felt the 
motorbike was worth much more than Ageas was offering. He said hed seen guide values of 
£9,500 to £10,500. Our Investigator noted the two valuations Ageas had returned (£5,472 
and £5,766). He checked a third guide which returned a figure of £8,966. He completed 
some on-line research to consider sale prices for motorbikes similar to Mr Ss. He also asked 
Ageas for any evidence it had to show that a previous theft would likely impact the market 
value of a motorbike. Ageas said it had no evidence as such but it stood to reason a buyer 
would not pay as much for a bike which had been stolen before, than for one which hadnt. It 
said, in that respect, it felt applying a 15% deduction was fair.
Our Investigator felt Ageas hadnt been fair or reasonable in offering settlement for the claim 
and withholding payment. He said the value he had obtained was likely the most reliable, so 
Ageas should settle the claim based on that market value, plus interest. Without making a 
deduction for the previous theft. Whilst paying interest on the settlement sum, applied from 
the date of loss until payment is made. 
Mr S said he was happy with the amended market value. Ageas said its only objection was 
in respect of the 15% deduction. It maintained it was fair. The complaint was referred for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the motor valuations. Ive reviewed the research completed by our Investigator. 
I note Ageas did not present anything which might support that its reliance on the lower two 
valuations is fair. I concur with our Investigator that the available sale adverts show the third 
and highest valuation of £8,966 is most likely the best indicator of a reasonable market value 
for Mr Ss motorbike. So Im satisfied that any settlement Ageas should pay should be based 
on that as the market value.
I appreciate Ageas view that prospective buyers might be put off somewhat by a motorbike 
which has been the subject of a previous theft. And I even agree that some might be worried 
about how the bike was used during the period it was stolen. But all of this seems to be 
largely conjecture and assumption on the part of Ageas. I think its equally possible to think 
that a prudent buyer might research the motorbikes for sale, checking things like their MOT 
history and ultimately not be phased by this type of history. Im also mindful that the 
second-hand sales market is currently quite competitive  which also doesnt seem to have 
been taken into account by Ageas. Im not persuaded that Ageas has shown it is fair and 
reasonable to apply a deduction of 15% to the market value for Mr Ss motorbike on account 
of it having been stolen previously and recovered. To be clear thats whether or not the 
correct history is recorded for it  Mr S, if needed to, could quite easily demonstrate, if 
required, to prospective buyers, that the history is wrong and being corrected. So while its 
likely a deduction could be fair, Im not satisfied Ageas has shown what the fair deduction 
should be. Im therefore not persuaded its fair and reasonable to deduct 15% from the 
market value for the previous total loss.   
Im disappointed to note that, to date, Ageas hasnt paid any settlement at all to Mr S. I really 
cant see any fair reason why, on account of a record for which Mr S has no control over, it 
felt it was fair to keep money it reasonably owes him under its policy. The record, in no way, 
affects its liability for this loss. Ageas should add interest to the settlement now due to Mr S 
from the date of loss until settlement is made.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr S:
£8,916, (£8,966 less the £50 policy excess), plus interest* applied from the date of loss 
until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Ageas to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman