DRN-3484723
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG) carried out its obligations 
to maintain a boiler it supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In 2013, Mr W entered into a regulated conditional sale agreement with ASG for the supply, 
installation and maintenance of a domestic boiler. The agreement was for just over £8,800 
with around £4,100 being for the actual boiler and the remainder being for its maintenance 
and servicing. The agreement was to be paid back over 14 years.
 
In September 2020, Mr W told ASG about a problem with the boiler. ASG sent an engineer 
out to look at it. He said that the boilers condensate pipe was backing up as the waste pipe 
it drained into was blocked. ASG told Mr W this wasnt a problem with the boiler and wasnt 
covered under the maintenance agreement. As ASG classed this as a non-warranty call out, 
it also charged Mr W £120 for the engineers visit. He wasnt happy with this situation, so he 
complained.
 
ASG told him the blocked waste pipe wasnt part of the boiler equipment and Mr W would 
need to rectify the problem at his own cost. It repeated that he would be charged £120 for 
the engineers visit. Mr W then got a third-party gas safe engineer to look at the boiler. He 
told ASG that the engineer had unblocked the condensate pipe and had said that it hadnt 
backed up into the boiler. He also sent ASG an email from the engineer which stated he 
believed the plate heat exchanger was faulty and found two error codes.
 
ASG replied stating that it had requested for Mr Ws waste pipe to be unblocked, and this 
didnt need a gas safe engineer. It went on to say that as it hadnt given its consent for the 
third-party engineer to work on the boiler, this meant the boiler was now out of warranty and 
Mr W was now solely responsible for the servicing and maintenance. ASG told him that all 
his further payments would now go towards the cost of the equipment.
 
Mr W wasnt happy with this. So, he brought his complaint to our service. Mr W told us the 
third-party engineer told him the boiler was beyond economic repair, so he got a new boiler 
fitted. He told us he wants ASG to: cancel all charges; refund the cost of the new boiler; and, 
refund the cost of the third-party engineers inspection and advice.
 
One of our investigators looked into this. In brief, he thought: ASGs contract didnt allow it to 
charge Mr W £120 for the call out fee; ASG should pay Mr W £175 as it hadnt made it clear 
what he needed to do resolve the problems with the boiler; and, as Mr W no longer had the 
ASG boiler, it should write off any remaining amount due under agreement for servicing and 
maintenance.
 
ASG didnt agree with this. Again in brief, it said: the call out fee wasnt hidden and was 
discussed with Mr W before its engineer came out; it had already removed the maintenance 
and servicing side of the contract; and it doesnt believe Mr W has any intention of making 
payments so its unfair for ASG to pay him any sort of compensation.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my own 
words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the key 
issue here: given the problems that happened with Mr Ws boiler, does ASG need to do 
anything to put things right?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual point or argument  only those that Im satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
When ASGs engineer visited Mr Ws property in September 2020, he reported that the 
problem wasnt with the boiler, it was due to a blocked waste pipe under the sink. ASGs 
position is that this isnt part of its equipment, which in turn means it isnt responsible for 
fixing this problem.
 
Ive looked at Mr Ws agreement with ASG. I can see this shows that ASG was responsible 
for the maintenance of the boiler, and that it was down to Mr W to maintain all other 
pipework, which would include the waste pipe. So, I can understand why ASG then told him 
he would need to have this rectified at his own cost.
 
But I think ASG should have been clearer in its communications with Mr W. On 10 
September 2020, ASG told Mr W the water from the condensate pipe had nowhere to go 
due to the waste pipe being blocked. It went on to say Mr W would now need to rectify any 
faults due to the blockage at his own expense. Shortly after this, on the same day, Mr W 
reported that his hot water wasnt working properly. The available evidence doesnt show 
ASG provided any further clarification about what he now needed to do.
 
So, I can understand why Mr W felt he had to instruct his own gas safe engineer to look at 
the boiler. Hed told ASG his hot water wasnt working, and at that time hed been told he 
needed to rectify any problems due to the waste pipe blockage at his own expense. I dont 
think ASG gave Mr W clear enough guidance at this point on what his options were to 
resolve the issues he was having. I say this as it seems unlikely that simply clearing the 
blocked waste pipe would have resolved the issue with his hot water.
 
Ive also thought about Mr Ws response to this. As above, given ASGs lack of clarity over 
what to do, I think it was fair and reasonable for him to get a gas safe engineer to look at the 
boiler. Ive looked at the email from this engineer. The email states the engineer believed the 
plate heat exchanger to be faulty, that there were two error codes and two sensors were 
faulty. 
While I accept this email shows there were problems present with the boiler, Im not satisfied 
it shows the boiler was beyond economic repair. In my experience, the faults were with items 
that could be replaced. The available evidence doesnt support Mr Ws testimony that the 
boiler couldnt be repaired and needed replacing. Given this, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to ask ASG to pay for the replacement boiler. Also, Mr W hasnt provided any 
evidence that he had to pay for the engineer  and if so, how much  to inspect the boiler 
and identify any problems. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask ASG to pay 
anything for this. 
But I do think ASG needs to do something to compensate Mr W for failing to communicate 
clearly with him about what he needed to do when the boiler problems arose. Normally, I 
would direct ASG to repair the boiler. But, as Mr W has already replaced it, this isnt 
possible. So, in the circumstances of this individual complaint, Im satisfied ASG should pay 
Mr W £175 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by the lack of clear 
communication about how to resolve the issue with his hot water.
  
Also, as Mr W no longer has the boiler, this means ASG can no longer maintain and service 
it. So, if it hasnt already done so, ASG should remove any outstanding balance from Mr Ws 
account that relates to the maintenance and service part of his agreement.
 
Ill now turn to the matter of the £120 call out fee. Ive looked at the contract between Mr W 
and ASG. Having done so, Im not satisfied ASG had any contractual basis for charging such 
a fee. 
I accept ASG discussed the fee with Mr W before the engineers visit and that this wasnt 
hidden from him. I can also understand why ASG may want to charge for these types of visit. 
But if thats the case, there was nothing stopping ASG from providing for this when it drew 
up the contract. But it didnt. Instead, Mr W contracted with ASG on the terms set out in the 
contract he signed in 2013. Whether or not it was ASGs intention to include such a clause 
for non-warranty call outs, it wasnt done. Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable for it to 
then try to introduce a new clause into the contract to cover this. So, I think the call out fee 
should be waived, or refunded if its already been paid by Mr W.
 
Finally, I can see that prior to ASGs engineer visiting Mr Ws property, it gave him the option 
of either ending his agreement early with nothing further to pay or to have an engineer visit. 
It can be seen from the above that Mr W chose the latter.
 
All I would add here is that Im satisfied ASG was able to make this offer at its own 
discretion. It was an offer it was perfectly entitled to make. If Mr W had chosen to end the 
agreement early, I would have expected ASG to honour this. But he didnt. It follows that 
when Mr W chose to have the engineer come out, ASG was also then entitled to withdraw 
the offer to end the agreement early.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied ASG should:
Remove the £120 call out charge from Mr Ws account. If hes already paid anything 
towards this charge, this should be refunded together with 8% annual simple interest 
from the date of the payment to the date its refunded;
Remove any outstanding balance relating to the maintenance and service part of 
Mr Ws agreement if it hasnt already done so; and
Pay Mr W £175 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must take the action Ive set out 
above.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman