DRN-2037368
The complaint
Mr Q complains Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) unfairly declined a theft 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
References to Assurant include its agents. 
What happened
Mr Q raised a theft claim in February 2020 for a stolen phone. Mr Q said hed put his phone, 
along with other items, into a locker and used a number-coded padlock to lock it. He said he 
later returned to find the locker was open and items missing. Assurant considered the claim 
and asked Mr Q to provide proof of usage and blacklist the phone with the network provider, 
which he did. Mr Q also said hed notified the gym about the theft. 
Mr Q later received a text from Assurant asking him to contact it. Mr Q was informed the 
claim had been accepted and he needed to pay the policy excess. Assurant said it 
incorrectly informed Mr Q the claim had been accepted, and further investigation was 
required. It paid Mr Q £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Later in February 2020, Assurant contacted Mr Q to say the claim had been declined. It said 
the evidence Mr Q provided didnt match the information it had. For example, Mr Q had 
explained hed reported the theft to the gym, but when Assurant queried this with the gym, it 
said no thefts had been reported to it. This was later confirmed to be incorrect and the gym 
emailed Assurant to say Mr Q did report the theft when he said he had. 
Assurant said Mr Q explained other people he didnt know were around him at the time he 
said he locked the padlock. But he couldnt be sure if someone saw him enter the code or 
not. 
Assurant accepted Mr Q reported the theft to the gym but didnt think hed taken care of his 
phone by placing it into the locker, knowing someone may have seen him enter the code to 
lock it. Given the size of the numbers on the padlock were small, it said someone wouldve 
needed to be within very close proximity of Mr Q in order to see the code. And therefore, Mr 
Q shouldve been aware someone had likely seen the code to unlock it. Mr Q disputed this 
as he said it wasnt until after the event that he thought someone may have seen him input 
his combination number, but at the time he didnt notice this and wasnt aware of any risk. 
Mr Q raised a complaint about the claims decision and delays caused by Assurant. But it 
maintained its position. As Mr Q remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to this service 
for consideration. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint. She didnt think Assurant had 
demonstrated Mr Q acted without care by placing the phone into a locker and saying he 
secured it with a coded padlock. Therefore, she didnt think Assurant demonstrated Mr Q left 
his phone somewhere it was likely to be lost, stolen or damaged. So, she recommended the 
complaint should be upheld and said Assurant should reconsider the claim because she 
didnt think itd applied the policy terms fairly. 
Mr Q agreed with our investigator, but Assurant didnt. It maintained Mr Q ought to have 
been reasonably aware someone was observing him enter the padlock code. And, as he 
identified a potential risk but still decided to leave his phone in the locker anyway, he acted 
without care. So, it asked for an ombudsman to decide the case. Therefore, the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is Mr Qs mobile phone insurance policy. This covers him for, 
amongst other things, theft of his phone. But the policy also explains that a policyholder must 
take care to protect their phone from loss, theft or damage. The policy also gives some 
examples of what Assurant considers to be taking care. 
For clarity, the policy says: 
We know how important your mobile phone is to you and we expect that you will 
take care of your mobile phone. If you dont take care of your mobile phone then we 
may not pay your claim.
I think this term if fair and reasonable in principle, providing an insurer can demonstrate its 
applied the term fairly and reasonably. And in this case, I dont think it has, and so Ill go onto 
explain why. 
Mr Q told Assurant he locked his phone away in a locker which he said he secured with a 
number-coded padlock. After the event, Mr Q said, whilst trying to establish whatd 
happened, other people he didnt know were around him at the time and may have seen him 
inputting his code into the padlock in order to lock it. He said they were two to three metres 
away from him.
Assurant said this demonstrated hed identified a risk that his locker could potentially be 
broken into, and he didnt take care to mitigate that risk by continuing to leave his phone in 
the locker. But Mr Q maintained at the time he didnt notice anyone close to him observing 
him whilst he entered the code into the padlock. He told us hed came to this conclusion in 
attempting to try to establish whatd happened, rather than what he understood to be the 
case at the time he said he locked the padlock. Im in agreement with our investigator that 
Mr Qs testimony to this fact appears consistent, and I have no reason to doubt this to be the 
case on balance. 
Ive given the information provided by both parties a lot of careful thought. And Im in 
agreement with our investigator, for broadly similar reasons, that Assurant hasnt 
demonstrated Mr Q acted without care here. This is because Mr Q says he placed his phone 
into the locker and secured it with the coded padlock. Assurant hasnt disputed that. So, I 
think he took reasonable care here. Furthermore, I cant reasonably say, based on Mr Qs 
explanation of what he thinks may have happened, I could fairly conclude he identified a 
potential risk at the time, but didnt take precautions to safeguard his phone. So, on balance, 
I dont think the terms and conditions have been fairly applied in this case. 
Because of this, I think Assurant should reconsider the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. I dont think itd fair or reasonable for me to require Assurant to 
disregard the term it relied on to decline the claim cited above. This is because this term in 
my view is significant and could therefore prejudice the outcome of this claim.  I note Mr Q also considered that Assurant caused unnecessary delays in this claim. I can 
appreciate this has been frustrating for him, particularly given the fact he was incorrectly 
informed his claim would be met in February 2020  only to be informed further investigation 
was required. Ive gone onto consider whether any unnecessary, avoidable delays were 
caused by Assurant here, but I dont think it did. And, in any event, whilst £75 compensation 
was offered for the error it made in February 2020, I think this amount is fair and reasonable 
to recognise the overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr Q as part of this claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Assurant has applied the policy terms fairly and 
reasonably here. Therefore, I now require it to reconsider Mr Qs claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to reconsider Mr Qs claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman