DRN-4015694
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the decision made by Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (Helvetia) 
following a claim for accidental damage to her sofa. 
What happened
I set out the background to Mrs Ps complaint in the provisional decision I issued on 9 
February 2023, but Ill set it out again below.
Mrs P purchased fabric recliner sofas in December 2020. At the same time she purchased 
insurance for accidental events and stains. The terms and conditions explained The 
intention of this insurance is to provide cover for specific individual accidental events and 
stains to new upholstered fabric, leather and leather look furniture
The terms and conditions further explained:
4 WHAT IS COVERED 
ii) ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE 
a) Fabric and beds: Accidental damage resulting in a: 
 Rip or tear  Burn
The definitions sections explained:
Accidental damage: The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) not 
otherwise excluded under this policy
Product, products: The item(s) detailed under PRODUCT(S) COVERED shown on 
the front of this Certificate of Insurance.
The Certificate of Insurance listed The Products as 
The Product: 
1 X COLLINS 2 STR POW REC X 
2 2 X COLLINS CHAIR POW REC
In September 2022 Mrs P noticed that her pet dog had chewed through the wires connecting 
the recliner function of her sofa. Mrs P contacted Helvetia to make a claim. Helvetia sent a 
specialist to investigate the damage. The specialist found that the sofa had been damaged 
by Chewed electrical cables. 
Helvetia told Mrs P that they wouldnt be paying out for her claim. Helvetia said that the 
policy terms had not been met because damage caused by a pet, only applies to rips, tears, 
burns and stains to the fabric upholstery. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with this response, saying that the policy was intended to cover her 
sofas for any accidental damage. Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator found that Helvetia had acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy 
terms and conditions, and didnt recommend they take any steps to put things right. 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was 
passed to me for decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ps complaint. This is what I said about what Id 
decided and why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Helvetia are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company C. As Helvetia have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
company C, in my decision, any reference to Helvetia includes the actions of company C. 
(Mrs P also purchased recliner and headrest mechanism top-up insurance but this insurance 
is not the subject of this complaint so I havent discussed it in my findings).
Helvetia say that the reason for declining Mrs Ps claim is because damage caused by a 
pet, only applies to rips, tears, burns and stains to the fabric upholstery. Helvetia say the 
damaged wires, which are mechanical parts, are not covered. When we investigate a 
complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to consider whether the insurer 
handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
To decline Mrs Ps claim, I would need to be satisfied that Helvetia have acted fairly and 
reasonably in their application of the policy terms. I have reviewed the policy exclusions for 
Mrs Ps insurance. I cant see any exclusions for mechanical parts. Because the policy terms 
do not specifically exclude cover for the mechanical parts of Mrs Ps sofa, I dont think its fair 
for Helvetia to rely on this as a reason for declining Mrs Ps claim.  
Ive considered what Mrs Ps insurance was designed to cover, and whats happened to Mrs 
Ps sofa thats led her to claim. The terms and conditions explain The intention of this 
insurance is to provide cover for specific individual accidental events. Im persuaded that the 
damage caused by Mrs Ps dog chewing the wires for her sofa, reasonably satisfies the type 
of damage the insurance was intended to cover. 
The policy defines accidental damage as The sudden and unforeseen damage to the 
product(s) not otherwise excluded under this policy. Its not disputed that the damage 
claimed for meets this definition.
The definition of Product is The item(s) detailed under PRODUCT(S) COVERED shown 
on the front of this Certificate of Insurance. The Certificate of Insurance includes the sofa 
Mrs P says has been damaged. 
I accept the terminology used by the specialist that inspected Mrs Ps sofa recorded the 
damage as Chewed electrical cables. But I dont think the absence of the wording rip, tear 
or burn to describe the damage materially impacts this decision. 
The reason for this is the incident claimed for meets the definition of accidental damage, as 
defined in the policy terms and conditions. So although the technical report recorded the 
damage differently, having considered the claim circumstances overall, and specifically the absence of any exclusions for mechanical parts, Im satisfied the policy terms for accidental 
damage have been met.
I dont think Helvetia have done enough to make clear the policy limitations of Mrs Ps policy. 
For Helvetia to decline Mrs Ps claim on the basis that her insurance only covered fabric 
parts of the sofa, I would need to be satisfied that this was explained in the policy terms and 
conditions. I cant see that it was. Theres no evidence that the policy highlighted the 
exclusion that Helvetia have relied on- that mechanical parts are not covered. So I dont 
think it would be fair to say that Helvetia have acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions in declining Mrs Ps claim.
 
putting things right
To put things right Helvetia must assess the claim for damage to Mrs Ps sofa. 
Helvetia must not decline the claim on the basis of the insurance only covering fabric parts. 
The claim must be assessed in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im minded to uphold this complaint and direct Helvetia Global 
Solutions Ltd to put things right as set out above.
I invited both Mrs P and Helvetia to respond to my provisional decision. I did not receive any 
response from either party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received, my provisional findings and decision remain 
unchanged.
Putting things right
To put things right Helvetia must assess the claim for damage to Mrs Ps sofa. 
Helvetia must not decline the claim on the basis of the insurance only covering fabric parts. 
The claim must be assessed in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Neeta KareliaOmbudsman