DRN-2976960
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased her 
motor insurance premium.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs M scraped her car against a concrete object in a carpark. She rang Admiral to talk about 
claiming to have her car repaired. Admiral said it would instruct a garage to fix the car. But 
that didn't actually happen.
Mrs Ms policy renewed some months later. The premium had almost doubled. Mrs M 
contacted Admiral as she didn't think it was fair that her premium had increased when she 
hadn't actually claimed on her policy. Admiral said it would change the record of the carpark 
incident to notification only, which means an incident happened but no claim was 
progressed. It said the premium didn't reduce but it would apply a £100 discount unrelated to 
the incident/claim.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 14 July 2021. For ease 
Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call when Mrs M rang Admiral to make the claim. Admiral told her it would 
authorise a local garage to do the repairs and gave her details of the garage it would 
instruct. Admiral told Mrs M that her excess would be £600. Mrs M asked if she should get 
quotes for repairs to see if they were below that amount. Admiral told her that if the repair 
costs were below £600 she would only have to pay that amount and in those circumstances 
Admiral wouldn't record the incident as a claim. It told Mrs M that if she changed her mind 
about the garage doing the repairs she should contact it. And, having listened to that call, I 
think Mrs M was clear that she did wish to claim on her policy.
Admiral sent Mrs M a letter that day to say it had authorised the garage to do the repairs. It 
said that if the garage hadn't contacted her within 48 hours she should call it to book her car 
in for repair. I don't think there was anything ambiguous about that. Mrs M had asked 
Admiral to repair her car under the cover provided by her policy and Admiral said it had 
instructed a garage to do so. But, for reasons that aren't clear, the garage didn't ever do the 
repairs. I note Mrs M hasn't complained about that, so it seems she changed her mind about 
asking Admiral to do the work.
However, Admiral had recorded the incident as a fault claim. That was because it thought it 
would pay out to repair Mrs Ms car. And it didn't anticipate receiving any of its outlay (what it 
would pay to settle the claim) back. I don't think there was anything wrong with that. As I've 
said above, I think Mrs M was clear she wanted to claim on her policy. And I haven't seen 
any evidence she told Admiral shed changed her mind. So, initially at least, I think it was 
reasonable for it to record the incident as a fault claim. And when it calculated Mrs Ms 
renewal premium it factored a fault claim into the calculation.
Mrs M contacted Admiral after her policy renewed. She hadn't had her car repaired so didn't 
think the incident should be affecting her premium. It seems that Admiral initially told her that 
it should have only instructed the garage to provide an estimate rather than to go ahead with 
the repairs. But as we know the garage didn't do either. So, at that point, Admiral recorded 
the incident as notification only (non-fault) and recalculated Mrs Ms premium. But it said her 
premium didn't change.
It seems that, as the premium didn't reduce, both Mrs M and our investigator didn't grasp 
that Admiral had already recalculated the premium to reflect changing the incident from a 
fault claim to notification only. But Admirals provided us with some information about how it 
calculated Mrs Ms premium at renewal and why that didn't go down once it had amended 
the incident from a fault claim to notification only. That information is commercially sensitive 
so I can't share it with Mrs M. But, having looked at it carefully, I can see why Mrs Ms 
premium didn't go down after Admiral changed the incident type to notification only. So I 
don't think Admiral has calculated the premium unfairly.
I can understand that Mrs M might find it somewhat puzzling that Admiral didn't reduce her 
premium in those circumstances. And I can see that, from her perspective, as Admiral didn't 
actually pay out on a claim the incident should have a minimal effect on her insurance 
history and her premiums. But while I can see that point of view that doesn't mean Admirals 
acted unfairly.
It might help if I explain that when insurers are deciding whether or not to offer a consumer a 
policy, and if so how much to charge for it, they assess the risk of the consumer making a 
claim and how much they might have to pay out for that. And each insurer will go about that 
risk assessment in their own way. Insurers take into account numerous different factors 
when deciding what to charge for their policies. And if the insurers assessment of risk 
increases, it may decide to increase the premium to address that increased risk. Thats 
something insurers are allowed to do and, as long as its something they apply consistently 
to consumers with the same circumstances, this isn't something we would interfere with.
I need to be clear that were not the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) is. That means its not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge for its 
policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when 
assessing risk. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the 
extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something we 
would usually think its fair to interfere with.
Its apparent that one factor Admiral includes within its risk assessment is whether or not a 
consumers been involved in a driving incident, even if that didn't lead to it paying a claim. So 
its the incident itself, rather than whether or not there's a claim and the costs for that, which 
affect Admirals risk assessment. And Admiral told Mrs M when it replied to her complaint 
that it rates risk on non-fault as well as fault claims.
So its clear that Admiral considers drivers with recent notification only or non-fault claims 
pose a higher risk than other drivers. Ive noted Admiral says its statistics show that drivers 
whove had recent non-fault incidents are more likely to go on to be involved in fault claims 
later on. And Admiral reflects that change of risk in the premiums it charges. That might not 
be something that Mrs M agrees with, and it's not the approach of all insurers, but as this is 
something Admiral will apply consistently to all its policyholders, I don't find its premium 
setting unfair.Admirals already confirmed that its recalculated Mrs M's premium following the 
recategorisation of the incident to notification only. But that recalculation didn't result in a 
reduction in premium. And for the reasons set out above I don't think that's unfair. It follows 
that I'm not minded to instruct Admiral to take any further action now.
Developments
Mrs M didn't agree with my provisional decision. She said she didn't authorise Admiral to 
carry out repairs or instruct a garage to do so. She added that the garage didn't contact her.  
She said it was unfair that she's being penalised even though she hadn't made a claim. She 
said Admiral had admitted that it had made a mistake and so had reinstated her no claims 
discount (NCD). She said that I should listen to all of her calls with Admiral. Admiral didn't 
make any comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Ive listened to Mrs Ms call with Admiral when she reported the incident. Admiral told Mrs M 
it would instruct a garage to carry out the repairs, it told her which garage that was and gave 
her its contact details. Admiral told Mrs M to get back in touch with it if she changed her mind 
about the garage doing the repairs. So I think she did tell Admiral she wanted her car 
repaired, even though that didn't ever happen. 
But whether Mrs M actually claimed on her policy or not didn't affect the premium Admiral 
charged her at renewal. Thats because Mrs M had notified Admiral she'd been involved in 
an incident  when she scraped her car in the carpark. And, as I said in my provisional 
decision, for Admiral its the involvement in a driving incident itself, rather than whether or 
not the claim was made, that affected its assessment of the risk Mrs M posed. So, because 
Admiral was aware Mrs M had been in an incident it assessed she was a higher risk and 
calculated her premium to reflect that increased risk. 
I'm aware that Admiral did tell Mrs M it had made a mistake and that it should have just 
instructed the garage to give an estimate rather than instructing it to carry out repairs. And it 
said it had reinstated her NCD to 12 years. But, having done that Admiral recalculated 
Mrs Ms premium. But the premium didn't reduce. That's because, as I've said above, it was 
the incident that Mrs M had reported to Admiral that had caused her premium to increase, 
rather than whether or not a claim was made or paid. And, reinstating the NCD didn't bring 
the premium down. So, as Admiral had already recalculated Mrs Ms premium before she 
complained to us, I think it dealt with her fairly. It follows that I don't need to listen to any 
further calls between Mrs M and Admiral.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman