DRN-3584090
The complaint
Mr B complains Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) unfairly declined his income 
protection claim when he was unable to work. 
What happened
Mr B works as a machinery operative and is a beneficiary of his employers group income 
protection scheme, underwritten by Generali. The policy is designed to pay a benefit in the 
event that the member is incapacitated due to illness, for the duration of a 52 week deferred 
period. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material 
and Substantial duties of their occupation and they are not carrying out any other 
work or occupation
Mr B became absent from work in mid-September 2019 due to suffering symptoms and side-
effects related to the heart condition atrial fibrillation, and a corrective procedure. He made a 
claim against the policy via his employer in April 2021. As the deferred period on the policy is 
52 weeks, the relevant period for Generali to assess was from mid-September 2019 until 
mid-September 2020.
The medical evidence shows Mr B underwent a cardioversion procedure in mid-September 
2019 to correct an irregular heartbeat. And the follow-up report shows that this was only 
initially successful and within a week Mr B reported symptoms of light-headedness, 
shortness of breath and palpitations. And hed said hed found attempting to return to work 
exhausting. Mr B was prescribed medication to be taken for three months after the 
procedure, and was also referred for ablation, and scheduled for another round of 
cardioversion in December 2019. 
Mr B underwent the further cardioversion procedure as planned. Followed by the ablation 
procedure and further tests in February 2020. In a report from Dr F - a consultant 
cardiologist  he stated Mr B had previously been in constant atrial fibrillation, but since had 
a good heart rate and normal sinus rhythm. He noted some breathlessness, palpitations and 
dizziness from the monitoring, but said there was certainly no significant heart rhythm 
disturbance. 
A further report from Dr F in May 2020, stated Mr B had ongoing sinus rhythm for two 
months from February to April 2020. And noted during this time Mr B had remained well but 
still had some breathlessness. Dr F said Mr B had gone back into atrial fibrillation in late April 
2020 and recommended changes in medication and a further cardioversion. 
In August 2020, Dr F reviewed Mr B again. He noted ongoing sinus rhythm. And said there 
was some improvement in Mr Bs breathlessness, but this hadnt changed dramatically. He 
said tests had confirmed sinus rhythm with no abnormalities and other measures were 
normal. Dr F recommended continued medication and also that Mr B attempt to lose further 
weight. He was discharging Mr B at that stage. Dr F noted Mr B was awaiting a heart bubble 
/ shunt study, but commented he thought it was unlikely that this was the cause of the 
breathlessness. And said if this study didnt show any significant shunt, Mr B could rest 
assured nothing was afoot, and he would likely be able to stop taking one of his medications. 
A further report from Dr F was provided to Generali as part of Mr Bs claim. This was written 
in June 2021, so some significant time after the end of the deferred period. However 
Generali considered this evidence. This report confirmed some evidence of shunting was 
detected from the testing, but this was not significant. Dr F concluded his reporting by 
saying: He struggled to return to work because of fatigue, tiredness and breathlessness. 
From the role that [Mr B] describes to me it does not seem possible hes going to be able to 
fulfil this. He may be able to perform other lighter work but did not feel when I spoke to him 
capable of pursuing his current role..  
Generali declined the claim in August 2021. It said Mr B had undergone a successful 
procedure in February 2020. And thought the medical evidence it had been provided, didnt 
support that Mr B had an ongoing illness which had prevented him from carrying out his job 
role for the duration of the deferred period. 
Mr B complained to Generali. Generali said it had reviewed its decision again, together with 
the further report Mr B had provided from an occupational health nurse. However it still 
thought Mr B had not evidenced hed met the policy definition of incapacity for the duration of 
the deferred period, and it maintained that it had been correct to decline the claim. 
Unhappy with Generalis response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Generali had 
acted unfairly. They thought there was insufficient evidence to support Mr Bs claim. 
Generali made no comments on the investigators view. However Mr B disagreed. He said 
he had been in recurring atrial fibrillation and had been admitted back into hospital in April 
2020 and required a further procedure. And he said that since the deferred period had 
ended, hed undergone further procedures and periods of illness. 
Mr B asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Generali has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Firstly I should clarify, if I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this 
doesnt mean I havent considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, 
but instead Im concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended 
by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
Mr B has provided information about his health since the deferred period ended: 
documentation including assessments by the Department of Work and Pensions, a letter 
from his consultant commenting on the history of his condition as at August 2022, and a 
similar letter from his GP dated July 2022. However, Im focussing on the evidence relevant to the claim period spanning September 2019 to September 2020, and the evidence which 
Generali had when responding to Mr Bs claim and his subsequent complaint. 
Im very sorry to hear of the conditions and symptoms Mr B has been suffering with. My 
assessment here is not based on whether he has been unwell, but rather Ive looked at 
whether I think the medical evidence supports that he met the definition of incapacity set out 
in the policy. Having done so, I dont think Generali has acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
And Ill explain why. 
Mr B was continually deemed unfit for work by his GP. However this doesnt 
automatically mean that the claim should be paid. The threshold for a GP to sign a 
patient off work is not the same as the criteria for an incapacity claim; this is instead 
based on the definition set out in the policy. 
The notes made by the GP are mostly a reflection of Mr Bs self-reported symptoms and 
do not detail how these symptoms would have prevented him from carrying out his role. 
Generali has said it thinks the evidence which carries the most weight is the report by Mr 
Bs treating consultant cardiologist  Dr F. And I think this is reasonable, as Dr F is a 
specialist in the relevant field and reviewed Mr B regularly during his treatment. 
The reports by Dr F show Mr B was experiencing symptoms related to atrial fibrillation, 
including breathlessness. However, the reports also detail that Mr Bs condition and 
symptoms responded well to the treatment he received. Although setbacks were 
documented, and further procedures were required, overall Dr F reported improvements 
in Mr Bs condition during the deferred period, and lessening of some of his symptoms. 
Towards the end of the deferred period, the report in August 2020 reflects that normal 
readings had been returned on many of Mr Bs tests, and although some breathlessness 
was still an issue, he was in ongoing sinus rhythm and was discharged by his consultant. 
Ive considered the further report from Dr F in June 2021 which was provided to Generali 
as part of the claim. And Ive noted Dr Fs comments about Mr Bs ability to return to 
work. However, this report was written around nine months after the deferred period had 
ended, and Dr F has not stated that his opinion related specifically to Mr Bs condition 
during the deferred period.  So it doesnt persuade me that Generali should have paid 
the claim.
For a successful claim, Mr B would need to evidence that he was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation for the entire 52 week deferred period. 
Whilst its clear from the medical evidence that Mr B was unwell and had been 
experiencing periods of atrial fibrillation, the reports also reflect improvements in his 
condition during the deferred period, and sustained periods of sinus rhythm. And, Ive 
seen no medical evidence which explains how Mr Bs breathlessness and other 
symptoms prevented him from working, and that this was sustained throughout the 
deferred period. 
Ive considered the report from an occupational therapist, which was submitted to 
Generali following its declinature of the claim. Whilst Ive noted the contents, this largely 
consists of Mr Bs self-reporting about his symptoms and how they impacted him. Other 
than an observation of Mr B walking, no tests are reported to have been carried out on 
his functional capacity. Im satisfied the report doesnt offer a sufficient level of objective insight into Mr Bs capabilities as required for his job role. And so it hasnt persuaded me 
that the claim should have been paid. Ive considered whether Generali should have 
instructed an independent assessment of Mr Bs functionality during the deferred period. 
However I note the claim was submitted to Generali some considerable time after the 
deferred period had already ended, so there wasnt an opportunity for this. 
I acknowledge Mr B went through periods of ill health and Im very sorry to hear this is still 
ongoing. However, the medical evidence Ive seen hasnt sufficiently persuaded me that his 
functional capacity was limited to the extent he was unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his occupation, for the duration of the 52 week deferred period. And so 
it follows that I dont think Generali declined his claim unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Assicurazioni Generali SpA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman