DRN-3776001
The complaint
Miss O complains that Santander Bank UK Plc marked her current accounts as dormant, 
and that it has refused to reopen them.
What happened
Miss O held two current accounts with Santander. These accounts became dormant 
because there hadnt been any activity for a year. 
In around August 2021 Miss O received a cheque and wanted to pay it into one of her 
accounts, but was unable to provide the documents Santander required to prove her identity, 
so was unable to get either account reopened. 
Miss O said the account shouldnt have been made dormant in the first place. Miss O also 
feels it is unreasonable for Santander to refuse to reopen her accounts because she cant 
provide the specific proof of identification it requires. Her personal circumstances mean it is 
difficult for her to provide the documents Santander has said it will accept as proof of her 
identity, but she says she has provided all she can. 
Santander has looked at the documents Miss O has provided. But says it is not satisfied that 
these documents prove Miss Os identity, so it is not willing to reopen her accounts. 
Miss O referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things. They said 
Santander had the right to close the accounts as dormant, and it acted in line with its terms 
and conditions. The investigator also agreed that the evidence Miss O had provided so far 
was not enough to prove her identity to Santander. But nonetheless, to try to assist Miss O, 
the investigator asked Santander what it would need to open a new basic bank account for 
her. Unfortunately, Miss O was not ultimately able to provide the evidence that Santander 
required to open a basic bank account for her. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I can certainly empathise with Miss O. Its clear shes been in a very difficult situation over 
the last few years, and it must be frustrating to be unable to access her dormant accounts, 
particularly given how important a bank account is for day to day life. However, what Im 
required to consider is whether Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably, both in its 
initial decision to close the accounts as dormant, and then in its decision not to reopen them. 
And with everything Ive seen, I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonable here. 
I say this because the terms and conditions of Miss Os accounts provide that Santander can 
treat an account as dormant if you do not make any transactions on your account for one 
year. There does not seem to be any dispute here that Miss O did not use her current 
accounts for over a year, so Im satisfied Santander acted within its terms and conditions 
when it decided to mark Miss Os accounts as dormant. 
Because Miss Os accounts had been marked as dormant, when she wanted to have one of 
them reopened so she could pay in a cheque and then use the account normally once again, 
Santander required documents to validate her identity so it could be sure she was entitled to 
access the accounts. 
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to have systems in place for customer identification. There 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to new and existing relationships and might mean 
customers will need to provide proof of address or updated identification documents. And 
this is particularly important when it comes to dormant accounts, which can potentially be at 
real risk of exploitation by fraudsters or for money-laundering. 
Generally Santander would require photo ID such as a passport, biometric ID card, or driving 
licence. But Miss Os passport has expired. She says it is too expensive for her to be able to 
apply for a new one, and until recently her country was not renewing passports at all. She 
also doesnt drive and has no other photo ID.
Miss O has nonetheless provided a number of documents, both direct to Santander and via 
our service, but Santander has said it is not satisfied these documents are adequate to 
validate Miss Os identity. Specifically, it noted the following:
- Many of the documents are in Miss Os married name whereas her current accounts 
are in her maiden name
- The marriage certificate provided does not include Miss Os full first name
- It hadnt received adequate proof of her address
Nonetheless, in December 2021, after our involvement, Santander agreed to consider 
opening a new basic bank account for Miss O using her expired passport and marriage 
certificate as ID, but it did require some proof of address. By this time Miss O had moved to 
rented accommodation, but she was not able to provide anything with proof of her address 
until July 2022. And by this stage Santander confirmed it was still concerned that the 
marriage certificate did not have Miss Os full name, so would need further evidence of her 
name change. And it also said it would need appropriate evidence from Miss O of her leave 
to remain in the UK, which she has not been able to provide. 
I appreciate that Miss Os particular circumstances make it very difficult for her to provide the 
information Santander needs to either reopen her dormant accounts or to open a new basic 
bank account for her. But that doesnt change the fact that Santander has an obligation to 
ensure it has fully verified the identity of account holders, and Miss O has been unable to 
provide evidence that Santander considers adequate to do this. The situation has also been 
complicated here by the fact that Miss O did not change her Santander accounts to her 
married name when she got married in 2012. Overall, while I appreciate how frustrating this 
is for Miss O, Im satisfied that Santander has acted reasonably in its decision not to reopen 
Miss Os accounts or offer her a new account as it has not been provided with the 
appropriate documents to validate her identity.I appreciate Miss O feels that as a result of the Covid pandemic many people would not be 
using their accounts, or would then have difficulty providing identification to get their 
accounts reopened, and so feels Santander should have made changes to its terms to be 
more lenient when accounts werent being used. But its not my role here to say that a 
financial business should change how it operates. Instead I must consider whether 
Santander has treated her fairly and reasonably bearing in mind the circumstances of this 
particular complaint. And so although I understand Miss O will be disappointed with my 
decision, with everything Ive seen, I cant say Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman