DRN-1781730
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how U K Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy for storm damage.
Mrs Ps son brought this complaint to our service. But for clarity  Ill refer to all submissions 
as being made by Mrs P directly.
What happened
Mrs P holds a policy of home insurance, which is underwritten by U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI). In November 2019 she contacted UKI to make a claim for damage to the exposed wall 
of her property, which she believed had been sustained during a storm. Mrs P told UKI the 
storm had been very strong and responsible for extensive damage in her locality. She 
thought the damage to her property could have been caused by the impact of debris that had 
become airborne by the storm.  
UKI appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as B within this decision, to determine the cause 
of the damage. B visited Mrs Ps property on 12 November 2019 and, after inspecting 
the roof, chimney and rendering, it told UKI there was no evidence of impact damage. 
Instead, B thought that the roof and chimney were showing signs of age related loss and 
deterioration of mortar. And it said it had observed large cracks throughout the render, which 
had also come away from the wall. B felt this had happened gradually as driving rain 
penetrating the render over a period of time had caused it to detach.  
UKI informed Mrs P that age related wear and tear damage wasnt covered by her policy. 
So, it declined to cover her claim. But Mrs P didnt agree. She told UKI her property had 
been well maintained and kept in good condition since it was purchased in 1994. She stated 
no surveyor or builder had ever reported any underlying problems with the house. She 
therefore complained that UKIs decision to decline her claim was unfair.
UKI didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It maintained its decision to decline her claim as it didnt 
think the main cause of the damage had been a one-off storm event as was required under 
the terms of her policy.
Being dissatisfied with UKIs response to her complaint, Mrs P referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened but they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. While they thought there was evidence of a storm they werent persuaded the 
damage Mrs P had reported to UKI had been consistent with a one-off identifiable storm 
event. Instead they thought it had, most likely, been caused by wear and tear. So, they didnt 
think UKI had acted unfairly in declining to cover Mrs Ps claim. But she disagreed and 
asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs Ps property. However, theres a 
disagreement between the parties about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim.  
I can see Mrs P has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions and feels very strongly that her claim should be met. I want to assure her that 
Ive read everything shes sent us. I hope she will understand if I dont address every 
comment shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the 
complaint  namely whether UKI acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill explain 
why I think it has.
Mrs Ps policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. In order for a claim to be 
successful, a policy holder must show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by a 
storm.
When considering a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to address three main 
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Turning to the first question, I cant see that Mrs Ps policy defines the word storm. This isnt 
unusual. This service takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually 
accompanied by rain, hail or snow. We generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above 
to be consistent with a storm.
Having considered evidence of the weather recorded at around the time the damage 
occurred, I can see wind speeds of 53 mph accompanied by very heavy rain are recorded. 
Im satisfied this is in line with what our service would consider to be a storm. Im therefore 
persuaded I can answer question one affirmatively.
But even if there was a storm, in order for me to uphold a claim for storm damage I would 
have to be persuaded that the damage caused was consistent with what our service would 
normally consider storm damage. Id also be to be satisfied that the storm was the 
main/dominant cause of the damage. 
In weighing up whether the reported damage is consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes Ive considered what Mrs P said about the damage her property sustained. Ive also 
carefully reviewed Bs report and the photographs it took during its site visit. 
In this case the rendering de-bonded and fell off the wall. But our service wouldnt consider 
render coming away from the wall to be consistent with a single storm event.
I can see B believes storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage Mrs Ps 
property sustained. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, it thinks the damage 
here was caused by a breakdown and deterioration in the condition of the rendering, which 
happened over a period of time.  
I understand Mrs P disagrees with what B has stated about the cause of damage. She feels 
that the storm winds at around the time the damage occurred were unprecedented and said 
her property is located in an exposed position by the sea, which increases its vulnerability to adverse weather conditions. But, while I understand the point Mrs P is making here, Im 
more persuaded by Bs opinion as to the cause of damage. 
I understand Mrs P feels its unfair for UKI to rely on a report from B in declining her claim. 
But, our service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect 
a customers property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. Here UKI appointed B 
to do that. And I dont think it acted unfairly in accepting and relying on its opinion in the 
circumstances of this claim.
While Mrs P may disagree Im satisfied UKI has shown our service reliable evidence to 
demonstrate that the damage Mrs Ps property sustained, most likely, occurred due to wear 
and tear and a lack of maintenance of the render. Theres no evidence that the damage was 
caused by impact from airborne debris as Mrs P suggested may have happened when she 
discussed her claim with UKI.  
Render deterioration isnt something that happens gradually. And it doesnt happen due to a 
one-off storm event. I say this because correctly applied and maintained render should be 
weather resistant and unaffected by storm related weather  although it will deteriorate over 
time when exposed to extremes of weather. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Bs report shows the damage to 
the rendering was most likely due to age related wear and tear instead of a single one-off 
storm, which is what is covered by Mrs Ps policy. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mrs P 
experienced in November 2019 highlighted the pre-existing render deterioration, which 
happened over a period of time. Im not persuaded the damage Mrs P reported here could 
be caused by a one-off storm event.
On page 7 of Mrs Ps policy booklet, UKI makes it clear that loss or damage that happens 
due to wear and tear is excluded under the terms of her insurance policy. This is in common 
with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. 
And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As Ive already explained Im satisfied UKI has shown our service cogent evidence that 
proves the damage to Mrs Ps property was caused by wear and tear. As that isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps insurance policy I cant fairly conclude that UKIs 
decision about this claim was unreasonable. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to 
require it to pay this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman