DRN-3800343
The complaint
Mr C says esure Insurance Limited (esure) failed to transfer his motor insurance policy into 
his sons name as agreed resulting in additional costs. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr C says he contacted esure to cancel his motor insurance. This was prior to 
the policy renewal. His son had taken ownership of the car covered by this policy, and had 
sought cover elsewhere. Mr C says esure didnt cancel the policy as instructed. He received 
further contact and so called back to understand what had happened.
Mr C was told the policy was awaiting renewal, which had yet to be paid. He enquired about 
the cost of the policy if he wanted this transferred into his sons name. He was quoted a 
premium cheaper than the insurance his son had obtained. Mr Cs son called back later the 
same day to accept the quote and the new policy. Mr C says it was made clear the policy 
was to be in his sons name as the main driver and all that was payable was the premium for 
the new policy.
esure cancelled the policy a day later. It says payment hadnt been provided. Mr Cs son 
needed the use of a car. He was insured on Mr Cs other car so was able to borrow this for 
two weeks. However, this left Mr C without an insured car to drive. He says alternative 
arrangements were hastily made to obtain insurance for his son to replace the policy esure 
had cancelled. 
In its complaint response esure says a renewal quote was issued in early March 2022. This 
advised the policy would renew on 12 April and payment would be collected approximately 
three working days prior to this. The payment was rejected so esure contacted Mr C. It says 
he then called twice on 18 April, but its call handlers failed to make clear the premium was 
still outstanding. The response letter says it did, however, make Mr C aware he hadnt paid 
his premium and action was required. It believes it followed its process correctly.
Mr C didnt agree and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his 
complaint. She says esure had been given instructions to cancel the renewal, which it had 
confirmed. The policy was then transferred into Mr Cs sons name, and payment provided by 
card over the phone. She thought esure was at fault for failing to cancel Mr Cs renewal and 
had then cancelled his sons policy in error.   
To resolve the complaint our investigator says esure should refund the additional cost of the 
premium Mr C paid to replace the policy esure had cancelled. In addition to paying £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. She says esure should confirm 
there is no cancellation marker against either Mr Cs original policy or the policy requested 
for his son. 
Mr C agreed with this outcome, but esure didnt. It says Mr C didnt pay the renewal 
premium, so it followed its process correctly and the policy was cancelled. Because it 
disagreed, esure asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive listened the call recordings esure supplied. The first call is on 11 April 2022. In this call 
its explained to esure that the policy isnt to be renewed, which was due to happen the 
following day. The discussion then turns to proof of no claims, which Mr C needed to provide 
to another insurer. The call handler confirms that the policy is due to end tomorrow and the 
renewal will be cancelled right away. By the end of the call its confirmed that the proof of no 
claims has been sent via email. 
I think its clear that instructions were given for the policy to be cancelled prior to the renewal 
date. esure failed to carry out this instruction. I acknowledge its comments that a card 
payment was requested just prior to the renewal and this failed. But I dont think this is of 
relevance. Contact was made by phone before the renewal date and instructions were given 
to cancel the renewal. esure confirmed the renewal had been cancelled. 
I can see that further communication was sent by esure, which resulted in another call from 
Mr C to clarify the status of the policy. Three call recordings have been provided from 18 
April 2022. The first is to transfer the call to the correct team. Its then explained to esures 
agent about the cancellation instruction. esures agent explains the policy is still in the 
renewal stage awaiting a payment. The agent is asked if the policy could be amended to 
have the policyholders son as the main driver and how much this would this cost. 
esures agent provides a quote having made changes to the policy. This includes the son as 
the main driver, an increase in the mileage, and business use added. Its explained to 
esures agent that the sons existing policy will need to be cancelled first, and confirmation 
will then be provided that the policy can be agreed. 
During the final call on 18 April 2022 the agent goes through another quote, which is agreed. 
Card payment details were provided and esures agent confirms that the payment was 
successful. 
I note esure says the policy was cancelled on 20 April 2022 as no payment had been made 
for the remainder of the premium that was due. This conflicts with the information esures 
agent gave over the phone, which is that the payment had been successful. Its records 
indicate it called Mr C on 28 April to, obtain renewal premium. There was no answer. But 
there was no renewal. A new policy had been set up for Mr Cs son and the annual premium 
had been paid by card over the phone. 
We asked esure for the policy details created on 18 April 2022 following the calls discussed.  
It says its checked its records and found no policy for Mr Cs son as the main driver. 
Based on this evidence I think esure is at fault for not cancelling Mr Cs policy. It also failed 
to set up the policy for Mr Cs son. This shouldve commenced on 19 April 2022. The 
premium was confirmed as £355.07 and paid for over the phone. This wasnt put in force. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr C. He lost the use of his car for a period of two 
weeks as his son needed a car urgently in relation to his job. He explains how it was only 
discovered that insurance wasnt in place on the day his son was due to drive a long distance for an important work visit. He says esure didnt offer any options to provide cover 
when contact was made to try and resolve the situation. Because of this he says cover had 
to be sought elsewhere and this cost more than esure quoted.
I acknowledge esures response to our investigators view in which it emphasises Mr Cs 
renewal premium was never paid. I agree it wasnt paid. But this misses the point. The 
renewal was cancelled. This happened before the renewal date and another policy was set 
up for Mr Cs son. esure failed to act on both instructions, which meant Mr C was forced to 
pay a higher premium for his sons policy with another insurer. I agree with our investigator 
that its fair esure pays this additional cost for £356.71. In addition, this matter has caused 
inconvenience and distress for Mr C. I think its reasonable that esure pays him £150 
compensation to acknowledge the impact this had. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr C £356.71 to refund the additional cost of the new premium; and
pay £150 compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman