DRN-1396052
The complaint
Mr H complains that his broker, A-Plan Insurance, didnt ask him clear questions when he 
took out van insurance and this led his insurer to avoiding his policy. 
What happened
Mr H called A-Plan on 28 November 2018 and accepted a quote for van insurance and took 
out a policy. Later on, he called A-Plan to change the insured vehicle. He said, as a 
consequence of A-Plans unclear questions during these calls his policy has been avoided 
and premiums retained by the insurer. To resolve the complaint Mr H would like A-Plan to 
cover his claims. 
A-Plan said the insurer avoided Mr Hs policy as neither vehicle was owned by him and so 
there was no insurable interest. It said that had the insurer known about this it wouldnt have 
offered him a quote and he had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his information. 
This meant there was no cover in place for Mr Hs three claims and the insurer held Mr H 
responsible for any costs incurred by the insurer.
A-Plan said during the initial call, Mr H said he bought the van the day before and is the 
registered owner and keeper. A-Plan then sent policy documents with a letter that said 
undisclosed or inaccurate information could invalidate cover and he should check for any 
inaccuracies. A-Plan said Mr H didnt correct any information.
Mr H called A-Plan on 16 January 2019 to change the vehicle, following a claim on the 
policy. A-Plan said he confirmed he is the registered owner and keeper of the vehicle and 
the cover was arranged. A-Plan said that following investigation into two of Mr Hs claims this 
was shown to be false information as a friend of Mr Hs had arranged finance for the vehicle 
in his name proving that he owned the vehicle. A-Plan said the same arrangements were 
made for the replacement vehicle and Mr H had made deliberate misrepresentations. 
Mr H said he was the registered keeper of the vehicles and has the DVLA V5 slip to 
evidence this.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said the finance 
agreement for the insured vehicle showed it wasnt purchased or owned by Mr H. She said 
A-Plan asked Mr H clear questions about ownership in both calls, and he was told that 
providing inaccurate or incomplete information may invalidate his cover. She thought that 
A-Plan had acted with reasonable care.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator and the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not aware that Mr H has brought a complaint about the policy insurer, but Ive considered 
his experience in obtaining the vehicle insurance as widely as possible.
Mr Hs policy was set up by A-Plan Holdings as broker and he doesnt think it asked clear 
questions or acted with reasonable care when quoting for his policy and as a result your 
policy has now been unfairly avoided. Mr H said he was the registered keeper of the van, but 
I havent seen any evidence of this.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
A-Plan said Mr Hs insurer thinks he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said he was both the registered owner and keeper of the insured 
vehicles when he took out policies in November 2018 and January 2019.
Ive listened to the call recordings of Mr Hs calls with A-Plan and Ive looked at the 
insurance details and statement of fact. On both calls A-Plans members of staff asked Mr H 
if he was the registered owner and registered keeper of the vans and he confirmed that he 
was. On the first call he said hed purchased the van the day before. I think the questions 
were clear but dont think Mr H took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.   
As I think that Mr H failed to take reasonable care in his answers to A-Plans questions, Ive 
considered whether or not he has made a qualifying misrepresentation. Mr Hs insurer has 
written to him and said that had it know he didnt have an insurable interest in the vehicles it 
wouldnt have offered him any cover at all as this is outside of its underwriting guidelines. 
This means Mr Hs answers to A-Plans questions made a difference  he was covered 
when accurate answers would have meant the insurer wouldnt have offered cover. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Mr Hs insurer told him that it considers he made a deliberate misrepresentation and will 
keep his premiums. As I think that A-Plans questions about ownership and keeper were 
clear and straightforward, Ive concluded the insurers made a reasonable decision about the 
misdeclaration. And I think its actions are in line with the remedy for deliberate 
misrepresentation in CIDRA. 
As Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate, Ive looked at the 
actions an insurer can take in accordance with CIDRA. The Act allows an insurer to retain 
the premiums paid by a policyholder and Mr Hs insurer has done so. For the reasons I have 
given I think this is in accordance with the Act and is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman