DRN-4365096
The complaint
Mr Y complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITIED (Fund Ourselves) gave him loans he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr Y was advanced three loans by Fund Ourselves and below is a table of his borrowing.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £300.00 17/08/2021 26/11/2021 4 £135.60
2 £400.00 09/02/2022 25/05/2022 4 £184.00
3 £1,500.00 10/06/2022 outstanding 6 £500.00
Mr Y referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman after it has been reviewed by 
Fund Ourselves who didnt uphold it.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt think Mr Ys complaint
should be upheld about loans one and two. But she thought Fund Ourselves shouldnt have
granted loan three because Mr Ys monthly repayments represented a significant portion of
his income.
Fund Ourselves didnt agree, because the credit check results for loan three, as well as the
income and expenditure details, showed the loan was affordable. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me, and I proceed to issue a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ys 
complaint. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any 
event, no later than 21 September 2023. 
Neither party provided anything further for my consideration and so a copy of the provisional 
findings follow this in smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr Y could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ys income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr Y. These factors
include:
Mr Y having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr Y having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr Y coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr Y. As there were only three loans
granted and a small gap between loans one and two the adjudicator didnt think this applied
to Mr Ys complaint and I agree.
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr Y could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr Y was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ys complaint.
Neither Mr Y nor Fund Ourselves have disagreed with the adjudicators findings about loans
one and two. So, these loans, in my view are no longer in dispute and I say no more about
them. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Fund Ourselves did all it ought to have
done before it advanced loan three.
Loan 3
As part of his application, Mr Y declared a monthly income of £1,850 from full time work.
Fund Ourselves says that this income was verified using a tool provided by a credit
reference agency and the result of that check, indicated the income declared by Mr Y was
likely to be accurate.
Mr Y was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different variables, such
as travel, rent, utilities and food. Mr Y declared his outgoings were £560 per month.
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr Y provided that he had at least
£1,290 per month in disposable income to afford the monthly loan repayments of £500.
Therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loan to be
affordable for Mr Y.
Before the loan was approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with the results it received from the credit reference
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained within it
that wouldve either prompted Fund Ourselves to have carried out further checks or possibly
have declined Mr Ys application.Having looked at the results there wasnt anything that wouldve concerned Fund Ourselves,
its previous loans were reported and on top of that it appears he only had an overdraft and
three credit cards  but these had been maintained well.
The adjudicator upheld this loan because Mr Y was committed to paying around 27% of his
income, each month for six months. And in her view, that constituted a significant portion.
Which ought to have led Fund Ourselves to the conclusion that the loan was unsustainable
for him.
In response, Fund Ourselves seem to have focussed on the fact that the income and
expenditure information it gathered showed the loan was affordable. But as I said earlier on
in this decision, the affordability assessment had to extend beyond just finding out whether
the loan was pound and pence affordable.
In some situations, the percentage of income Mr Y was committed to paying Fund Ourselves
couldve been significant enough for me to conclude that the loan ought to not have been
granted. However, in the individual circumstances I do not think Fund Ourselves would have
been concerned by his percentage of income.
Firstly, loans one and two had been repaid without any obvious problems and there was a
small gap between the two  they werent taken in a consecutive manner. Mr Y had also
declared he lived at home with his parents so although his living costs were low that was
explained by what Mr Y had told Fund Ourselves. And as he lived at home, he was less
exposed to not meeting priority bills such as rent or council tax.
In addition, the credit search results didnt indicate either a reliance on this type of high-cost
lending nor were there any signs he was struggling to keep on top of his existing credit
commitments.
Thinking about those factors I have outlined above, in this case, it has led me to conclude,
that the percentage of income, on its own, isnt sufficient to uphold this complaint or to show
the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable.
But, in saying that, Mr Y had taken his third loan in relatively quick successions. Loan three
was also the largest capital loan, with the longest term and with the largest monthly
repayment and the repayments for this loan were significantly greater than what he had paid
before.
Therefore, I do think at this point it wouldve been proportionate for Fund Ourselves to have
carried out further checks into Mr Ys financial position. Fund Ourselves couldve gone about
doing this a number of ways, perhaps by reviewing bank statements, copy bills or his wage
slips. Fund Ourselves didnt do this and so the checks it carried out before this loan were
approved, where not in my view proportionate.
However, that isnt the end of the matter, for me to be able to uphold this loan I would have
to be satisfied that had further checks been conducted Fund Ourselves wouldve likely
discovered the loan was neither affordable nor sustainable for him. Mr Y has been asked for
copy bank statements covering the period when this loan was advanced. However, no
response has been received.
Mr Y now has a further chance to provide copy bank statements or any other evidence from
around the time loan three was advance to show what his actual financial position was
before I reconsider the complaint and issue a final decision.
Without any new or further information, I cant conclude that had Fund Ourselves made
better checks it wouldve likely discovered this loan was unaffordable or unsustainable for
Mr Y.
Therefore, as things stand at the moment, I am intending to not uphold Mr Ys complaintabout loan three. An outstanding balance currently remains due and I would remind
Fund Ourselves of its obligation to treat Mr Y fairly and with forbearance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new submissions were provided, I am not in a position to depart from the findings I 
made in the provisional decision. 
I still think Fund Ourselves needed to have carried out further checks before it advanced 
loan three. But without bank statements or any other documentation from Mr Y, I am not in a 
position to be able to conclude that those further checks wouldve likely shown 
Fund Ourselves that the loan was either unaffordable or unsustainable for him.  
It therefore follows that I am not upholding Mr Ys complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman