DRN-2095488
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent the information under his Subject Access 
Request (SAR) to address that was different to his correspondence address.
What happened
Mr A has a current account with Barclays and submitted a SAR asking for some specific call 
recordings relating to his account. Barclays made the call recordings available to Mr A and 
these were password protected. But the letters Barclays sent Mr A with the information about 
how to access them and the password were sent to the wrong address. Mr A didnt know this 
until he found out from the person who had received the letters. 
Mr A complained. He said that sending the recordings to the wrong address was significant 
given the sensitivity of the information in them. If it hadnt been for the third party that had 
received them letting him know, then he wouldnt have known theyd been sent out. This has 
left him feeling uneasy that his banking details couldve been compromised. 
He initially couldnt access the recordings using his own computer as he found they werent 
compatible with it. He had to use the computer of one of his family members to listen to 
them. But he felt the recordings were of a poor quality. 
 
Barclays said the SAR would only be sent to the residential address on the account due to 
the sensitive information included. It said Mr As change of address had only been updated 
for his correspondence and statement address, leaving his residential address unchanged. It 
apologised for this and arranged for a hamper to be sent to Mr A. Barclays updated Mr As 
residential address and explained the computer programme Mr A should use for the call 
recordings. It said he should contact it again if they were still unclear. 
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that, although Barclays had followed the correct process in sending the SAR information to 
the residential address for the account, if Mr As address had been properly updated, then 
this wouldnt have happened. She said Mr A had received letters to his correct address, so it 
was understandable why he didnt think it was necessary to specify which address the SAR 
information should be sent to. 
The investigator said that, after Mr As residential address had been updated, he contacted 
Barclays to ask for the letter with the password for the recordings to be sent to him again. 
However, Barclays said that his address didnt match on its system so he would need to go 
to a branch to collect a copy of the letter. It wrote to Mr A about this at his previous address. 
The investigator thought that it wasnt appropriate to send any correspondence to this 
address, as his details shouldve been updated. The investigator said that Barclays should 
pay Mr A £200 as compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused. 
The investigator said that Barclays had looked into whether the recordings could be sent to 
Mr A in a different format, but this wasnt possible. She thought that Barclays had acted fairly 
by making the recordings available to Mr A.
Barclays agreed with the investigators findings. But Mr A didnt think the £200 offered was 
enough. He said hed been caused severe mental stress by the situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr A has raised a separate complaint about Barclays. However, while I 
appreciate how this is linked, the matter I am addressing within this decision relates solely to 
the issues surrounding his SAR and where this information was sent.
 
Barclays has said that Mr As change of address hadnt been updated across all of his 
records, so his residential address wasnt changed although his correspondence address 
was.
 
And although the information from the online SAR Mr A made showed his previous address, 
I can understand why he may not have realised this was an issue, if he had received 
correspondence from Barclays to his correct address.
I can fully appreciate that it will have caused Mr A concern to learn that the call recording 
information he asked for had been sent to his previous address, and that the third party living 
there needed to pass on the letters to him. The sensitivity of the information contained in a 
SAR is the reason why Barclays has said it would only be sent to the residential address for 
the account, but here that address wasnt right. From what Mr A has told us, I understand 
that his account details havent been compromised, but I can see this will have rightly 
worried him.
I agree with the investigator that Barclays was right to issue sensitive information from a 
SAR to the residential address held for a customers account, but the mistake here was in 
not updating Mr As change of address fully. And this caused delays in Mr A being able to 
access the recordings; as well as the concern about this information being received by 
someone else. 
Barclays acknowledged this in its initial response to Mr As complaint. It apologised and sent 
Mr A a hamper. Its records show that Mr As residential address was fully updated at that 
time.
However, when Mr A asked for the password for the call recordings to be resent to him, 
Barclays sent a further letter to him at his previous address which told him that he would 
need to collect the letter from a branch by showing identification, as the addresses were 
different. But this meant Mr A didnt receive this letter. Its not clear why this happened when 
the account information indicates the address had already been changed, and this was the 
reason Mr A had complained before. As I understand it, the letter was then made available 
to Mr A through his online banking. 
Putting things right
Taking all of this into account, I agree that a payment of £200, along with Barclays apology 
and the hamper previously sent to him, would fairly compensate Mr A for the worry, concern 
and upset he was caused through correspondence being sent to him at the wrong address 
on these separate occasions. 
I acknowledge Mr As comments about the quality of the recordings and the initial difficulty 
he had in playing them. However, Barclays has provided copies of the requested recordings as they were; I dont think it would be fair to require them to do anything further on this 
particular point. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr A £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused through his address details not being fully updated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman