DRN-3185556
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way a call was handled by Lloyds Bank PLC after she found 
incorrect information recorded on her credit file. 
What happened
Collections activity in relation to Ms S overdraft had been suspended by Lloyds previously. 
In October 2021 Ms S called Lloyds and explained she was trying to arrange a debt 
management plan (DMP) via a third party but her overdraft limit was incorrectly recorded on 
her credit file. 
Ms S called Lloyds general banking number and it took around 15 minutes to be transferred 
to the correct team. Ms S told the call handler Lloyds needed to correct the overdraft 
information on her credit file so she could provide accurate figures to set up a DMP. The call 
handler explained they couldnt amend the information during the call but would submit a 
form requesting an amendment to Ms S credit file. The call handler also said they would log 
a complaint on Ms S behalf. 
The call handler placed Ms S on hold for several minutes so they could speak with a 
manager. The call handler explained they needed authorisation before they could put a 
second collections hold in place. After the call handler came back on the line, Ms S was told 
they needed to run through some important information about the account hold.
Throughout the call, Ms S said she was feeling unwell and tired. On a number of occasions 
Ms S said she didnt want to spend lots of time discussing the situation with Lloyds. 
When the call handler was running through details Ms S said she wanted to complain and 
felt harassed. Ms S said she didnt want to speak with the call handler anymore and asked to 
be redirected to raise a complaint. The call handler said theyd recorded a complaint on Ms 
S behalf already and couldnt get her through to anyone else. Ms S then hung up. 
Ms S complained but Lloyds didnt agree she had been treated unfairly when she called. Ms 
S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
agree the call handler had been rude and said the they were following Lloyds process by 
providing information about her account. 
Ms S asked to appeal and said she felt harassed and intimidated by the way shed been 
spoken to. Ms S also said the call handler had failed to give her a complaint reference 
number and that she didnt receive support from Lloyds. As Ms S asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls from the date in question. Ms S called Lloyds general number which 
meant she had to be transferred to the team handling her account. Ive listened to this part of 
the call and its clear Ms S was asked the nature of her enquiries and placed on hold for 
several minutes. It took around 15 minutes to get Ms S transferred to the correct team. I can 
hear Ms S was frustrated with the delay, but I think its fair to note that Lloyds is a large 
business and it took some time to get through to the team Ms S needed to speak with. 
Ms S says she felt harassed and intimidated by the second call handler. Ive listened to this 
call several times. I can hear that Ms S was frustrated and that she repeated the reason 
behind her call more than once. And I can also hear that Ms S became further frustrated by 
the length of time it took the call handler to obtain authority to place a further 30 day hold on 
collections activity and raise a credit file correction request. I understand from Ms S 
comments she was unwell and wanted to deal with the credit file issue as quickly as 
possible. But, I didnt find that the call handler was intimidating or that they harassed Ms S. 
Whilst I understand Ms S wanted to end the call as quickly as possible, there was more than 
one issue the call handler needed to try and resolve. The call handler logged a complaint for 
Ms S about the information recorded on her credit file. Because Ms S account had 
previously been placed on hold, the call handler had to obtain permission from their manager 
to do it again. I appreciate that added time, but I dont agree it means the call was poorly 
handled. The call handler also had to complete and submit a request for Ms S credit file to 
be updated to reflect the correct overdraft limit. Again, that took some time. 
I appreciate the call handler repeated information and guidance about the impact of placing 
an account on hold. And they also checked Ms S understood the information provided. It 
was around that point of the call that Ms S explained she felt bullied and harassed. But Im 
satisfied the call handler had to run through the information they provided and check Ms S 
understood. I agree the process does take some time, but I have to balance that against 
Lloyds obligation to ensure its customers understand what is happening when an account is 
placed on hold. I dont agree it was unreasonable for the call handler to provide the 
information or check Ms S understood. 
Matters became heated and I appreciate Ms S had been on the phone for some time. But I 
didnt find the call handler was intimidating, rude or failed to provide a reasonable level of 
assistance. When Ms S asked to complain the call handler said theyd already recorded a 
complaint. Ms S asked to be passed on to the complaints team but the call handler 
explained that wasnt something they could do. At that point, Ms S hung up. I didnt hear any 
clear opportunity for the call handler to provide a complaint reference. 
In addition, whilst I understand Ms S feels Lloyds failed to provide support, I think its fair to 
note a further 30 day hold was approved and confirmed in writing and the call handler 
agreed to resolve the credit file issue she was calling about. I understand the credit file was 
corrected a short time later. In my opinion, Lloyds did provide a reasonable level of support 
when Ms S called. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms S as I understand how the call made her feel. But, having 
listened to the available calls, I dont agree Lloyds call handler harassed or treated Ms S 
unfairly. As Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with Ms S complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman