DRN-3668709
The complaint
C, a limited company, is seeking to recover £30,000 from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), which 
was stolen from its business banking account as a result of a third-party scam. 
The director of C, Mr K, is bringing the complaint on its behalf and so I will refer to Mr K 
throughout. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, C has been the victim of a scam. Mr K was tricked into 
sending £30,000 to who he thought was a legitimate forex trading company. Unbeknown to 
Mr K, he was actually dealing with scammers. During the course of the scam, Mr K made 
the following payments from Cs business banking account:
- £10,000 on 13 August 2020
- £20,000 on 19 August 2020 
Mr K made the above transfers without any interaction with Lloyds staff. However, he now 
feels that Lloyds shouldve identified the payments he was making as suspicious  they 
were being made to international accounts. He says Lloyds shouldve contacted him to 
discuss the payments before it agreed to process them on Cs behalf. Mr K believes that 
had Lloyds done so, the scam wouldve come to light, and he wouldnt have proceeded to 
make the transfers.
Lloyds didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it already had to protect C 
and so Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think the transactions 
were so unusual and out of character when compared with Cs usual account activity that 
Lloyds shouldve questioned Mr K about the payments before they allowed them to leave 
Cs account. She also thought Lloyds had done all it could to recover Cs funds once 
notified of the scam, but this was many months after the transfers had left the account, 
and the receiving account had been closed and the funds removed. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. He felt that the transactions now in 
dispute shouldve stood out to Lloyds and reiterated that he should have been contacted 
prior to them being processed. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr K and his business. I have 
significant sympathy for the situation he has found himself in. But having thought very 
carefully about what hes told us happened at the time and Lloydss actions, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds liable for Cs loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Cs complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for Mr K, but I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds should 
reimburse him with the money C has unfortunately lost to the scammers. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with C when Mr K transferred £30,000 to scammers and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr K authorised the payments himself. He logged into Cs internet banking and used its 
security details in order to request the payments be made to the accounts he specified. And 
whilst we now know that these accounts were not legitimate, the funds were regardless 
paid to the account details Mr K had entered and therefore the transactions were requested 
and authorised by C. Because of this, Lloyds had an obligation to follow his instructions. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained above. I consider that as a 
matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the transfers Mr K made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with Cs usual account activity. Ive reviewed Cs 
account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded they were. Similar payments had been made from the account in the months leading up to the 
scam. For example, two £31,000 transactions left the account in May 2021 alongside a 
transfer of £26,850. And so, it wouldnt now be reasonable for me to say that transactions 
amounting to £20,000 - £30,000 were unusual for this account. I also have to bear in mind 
that the transactions left Cs business account and it is common for business accounts to 
be used to process higher value transactions when compared to personal accounts. And so 
Im not persuaded that the transactions now in question here were so out of character that 
they warranted further checks by Lloyds at the time. 
Ive also thought about the fact that the payments were sent abroad. Mr K has pointed 
out that he hadnt previously completed any international payments from this account 
and therefore the first transfer shouldve been deemed suspicious and prompted 
contact from Lloyds. However, I dont agree. Im not persuaded that the payments being 
made to international account is so inherently suspicious that Lloyds shouldve 
considered that C was at risk of financial harm and contacted Mr K before it made the 
payments at his request. International transfers are common, especially from business 
accounts. And Im not satisfied, given that this account had a history of making high 
value payments, that was enough to say Lloyds shouldve contacted Mr K about the 
payments before it agreed to process them at his request.
At the time, there was no way for Lloyds to have known that Mr K was making 
payments to a scam company. The payments were of a similar value to payments hed 
made in the previous months which indicated a propensity to make higher value 
payments from this account. Banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. It is now only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know 
that these payments were being made as the result of a scam and I dont agree that 
there was anything inherently suspicious about them at the time. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds couldve done more to help Mr K once it was notified 
of the scam but I dont think it could. Lloyds contacted the receiving bank upon notification of 
the scam. But, unfortunately by this point, the receiving accounts had been closed and no 
funds remained. 
I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr K has found 
himself in. But at the same time, dont think Cs loss was caused by any specific failing on 
behalf of Lloyds. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the fraudsters 
themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, on behalf of  
C, to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman