DRN-3643197
The complaint
Mr C complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) unfairly increased his renewal 
premiums each year, under his home buildings insurance policy.  
Mr C is represented by Ms H in his complaint. 
What happened
Ms H says that her stepfather has had his buildings insurance with St Andrews for many 
years. He isnt good with household bills, which were handled by Ms Hs late mother. She 
says her stepfather has lived in the same three-bedroom house for many years and has 
never made a claim. But his premium has increased every year. Ms H says the premium 
seems very high at over £700, which she thinks is unreasonable. 
Ms H contacted St Andrews on her stepfathers behalf. She says she was told the pricing of 
the policy was correct. But upheld his complaint and awarded £276.27. 
In its final complaint response St Andrews says that how its premiums are calculated is 
confidential, so it cant provide an exact explanation for the changes in cost. It says some of 
the factors that contribute to cost include changes in its view of risk and administrative costs. 
St Andrews says whilst its pricing was calculated correctly it had decided to offer Mr C a 
payment of £276.27. This is made up of £166.93 in premiums paid, 8% interest and £75 for 
any distress or inconvenience caused. 
Ms H didnt think this offer was fair. She says her stepfather has been overcharged for years. 
Because of this she referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She says St Andrews underwriting information showed Mr C had been treated 
fairly and consistently in line with other customers. She says Mr C had received 
compensation for the short period when he had been charged over St Andrews target price, 
which she thought was fair. 
Ms H wasnt satisfied with the explanation provided for the premium increases. She says Mr 
C couldnt shop around for insurance as he has hearing difficulties, isnt computer literate 
and there are no insurance brokers close to where he lives. Because she remained 
dissatisfied, she asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Let me explain. 
The role of our service isnt to tell an insurer at what level it should set its premiums. But we 
can consider whether a customer has been treated fairly and in line with how other 
customers have been treated. We will look to see that an insurer is being consistent in how it 
charges premiums and is not unfairly taking advantage of any group of customers. 
In these circumstances when premiums have increased year on year, we look to see 
whether there has been engagement between the customer and the insurer. If a customer 
hasnt engaged with the renewal process and just keeps on paying for the insurance, they 
may be considered inert. Thats to say a customer who doesnt engage with their insurer 
but continues to pay increasing premiums over the years. We expect insurers to treat 
customers fairly and not take advantage of a customers loyalty, because of a lack of 
engagement.  
St Andrews states there has been no contact throughout the life of the policy, until the 
premiums were queried in 2020. I think this reasonably shows Mr C was an inert customer 
and the business shouldve been aware of this. 
Ive thought about whether it was possible for Mr C to shop around, so he could be in an 
informed position when he received renewal invitations for his insurance policy. Ms H 
explains that Mr Cs late wife took care of the bills. She says he has hearing difficulties, 
which makes it hard to understand what is being discussed over the phone. She also says 
he isnt computer literate and there is no easy access to an insurance broker where he lives.
In these circumstances I dont think it was reasonably possible for Mr C to understand 
whether the premium he was paying was competitive. 
We dont think its reasonable for an insurer to raise premiums each year because the 
customer doesnt engage. This indicates the insurer is effectively taking advantage of their 
lack of engagement. In the circumstances described I dont think Mr C was able to engage. 
There are a number of factors that impact on the level at which an insurer sets its premiums. 
Claims is one factor. But Mr C hasnt made any claims. A change in its approach to risk 
could be another reason why an insurer might legitimately increase its premiums. In order to 
be satisfied that St Andrews has treated Mr C fairly, we expect it to be able to explain the 
reasons behind the premium increases.
As our investigator explained  how an insurer calculates risk and the level at which it sets 
its premiums is commercially sensitive. This means I cant share the information St Andrews 
has provided to explain why it increased Mr Cs premiums over the years. But I have 
considered this information, in detail, to understand its reasoning. 
Mr Cs policy began in 2008 with a premium of £269.42. After twelve years, this rose to 
£696.02 in 2020. Its not unusual for the cost of insurance to go up. Insurers often given new 
customers a discount on the actual cost of the insurance. The premium will then increase 
over the next few years to recover that initial discount. I note Mr Cs premiums stayed the 
same for the first three years, increasing in the following years.  
Mr C has obtained a new quote for insurance with St Andrews that is cheaper than it wanted 
to charge for the 2021 policy year. St Andrews says the cover provided is different, but that 
it also benefits from a new business incentive, which explains the difference in price.
Ive thought about this, but I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to increase premiums 
in order to recoup a new customer discount applied at inception of the policy. This will have 
happened regardless of whether Mr C engaged with St Andrews or not. 
St Andrews explains that it has steps in place to make sure premiums dont increase 
excessively when a policyholder has been with it for several years. I cant give the full details of this due to commercial confidentiality but, briefly, St Andrews applies a model to all its 
policies which sets the price based on a number of factors applied consistently to all 
customers. We refer to this as a target price and our service generally accepts its a fair 
approach. 
Ive looked at the information St Andrews supplied to show what Mr C paid over the years. I 
note it has already provided a refund of £166.93 plus interest at 8% for the occasions when it 
says Mr C had paid over its target price. But I cant see from the pricing information supplied 
that this happened in other years. Because of this I dont think a further refund is warranted. 
I can understand that it will have been disappointing to find that a similar policy with St 
Andrews was available for a lower premium. But this doesnt mean it acted unfairly, with 
how the premiums were priced, given what I have discussed here, and allowing for the 
refunds that have already been provided. 
St Andrews has paid Mr C £75 compensation. I think this is reasonable to acknowledge the 
period his premiums exceeded its target price. 
I know Ms H and Mr C will disappointed with this outcome, but I dont think St Andrews has 
behaved unfairly, so I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman