DRN-4096424
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank plc have incorrectly charged him interest on his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr B says that Sainsburys have incorrectly charged him interest on his credit card account. 
He says he pays more than the minimum repayment required each month, before the due 
date and he has lowered the outstanding balance on his promotional balance transfer 0% 
interest rate, which is not due to revert to the standard interest rate until April 2024. Mr B 
made a complaint to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said they apply Mr Bs payments to 
transactions which are accruing the highest rate of interest which are produced on his 
statement, if he doesnt pay his statement balance off in full. They said they explain this in 
his terms and conditions, under section 2.3 of the credit agreement, which Mr B confirmed 
he had read and understood to open the account, and this information is also available on 
his monthly statement. Sainsburys said they had found no errors. As a goodwill gesture, 
they applied a waiver to his account to stop any interest being applied for two months, which 
would allow him time to look at his options for the balance, as if he continued to not pay the 
purchase balance in full, interest would continue to be charged. Mr B brought his complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said he had reviewed Mr Bs 
transaction history and his statements, and hes found the payments have been correctly 
applied in line with the terms and conditions, which meant hes satisfied that no errors 
occurred here and he cant recommend Sainsburys takes further action to address Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that by Sainsburys changing their agreement to state that the payments 
are taken against the statement balance and not the outstanding balance (at the time of the 
payment), Sainsburys are not complying with its governing bodies regulations. He said 
Sainsburys werent following the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), specifically CONC 
6.7.4R. He also said this complaint was similar to another complaint he brought to our 
service where an Ombudsman confirmed he should expect payments to be taken in the 
order he has stated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about Sainsburys changing their agreement to state that 
the payments are taken against the statement balance and not the outstanding balance. But 
Im not persuaded they have changed this wording. I say this because Ive looked at his 
original credit agreement. And section 2.3 of the credit agreement contains the following 
wording: If you do not pay off the full outstanding balance each month, we will use any 
payments that you make to us to pay off the transactions that appear on your statements 
starting with those transactions on which we charge the highest rate of interest. 
So Im satisfied that this wording is clear that Sainsburys would use Mr Bs payments to pay 
off the transactions that appear on his statements (if the full outstanding balance hasnt been 
paid) and this wording applied from the outset of his agreement. Mr B has said that 
Sainsburys arent following CONC 6.7.4R by how they apply payments. Ive quoted the 
relevant section of CONC 6.7.4R below:
A firm must first allocate a repayment to the debt subject to the highest rate of interest (and 
then to the next highest rate of interest and so on) for:
(1) the outstanding balance on a credit card
But Im not persuaded that Sainsburys are in breach of CONC 6.7.4R. I say this as Mr Bs 
statements clearly show how the outstanding statement balance is calculated. It also breaks 
down the information into different categories, for example, balance transfers, purchases 
etc.  
Mr B was charged interest by Sainsburys when he hadnt paid the previous months 
outstanding balance in full, and his repayments didnt clear the outstanding purchases 
showing on his previous statement. While Mr B had previously made larger repayments 
which repaid the outstanding purchase balance shown on previous statements, any 
repayments which were more than the outstanding purchases balance, reduced the 
outstanding promotional balance transfer balance, as there were no other categories 
charging more interest that had outstanding balances, which had not yet been applied to his 
statement.
Mr B expected his overpayments, which were more than the outstanding balance for 
purchases in the previous statement to be allocated to purchases he made that month, 
which werent yet showing on a statement. But it would be clear from his statements that this 
wasnt happening, and Sainsburys had acted in line with section 2.3 of the credit agreement 
by paying off the transactions that appeared on his statement first. It would only be if Mr B 
paid his full statement balance that any overpayments would be allocated to transactions 
that were not showing on a statement yet under section 2.4 of the credit agreement. 
So Im not persuaded that Sainsburys acted outside of the credit agreement that Mr B 
accepted. And if Sainsburys applied payments to transactions that werent showing on his 
statement yet, there could be a possibility that the minimum payment showing on his 
previous statement wouldnt be met to cover transactions showing on that or previous 
statements, which could cause detriment to his credit file. But ultimately, Ive seen no errors 
with how Sainsburys have applied payments or interest to his account. And Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys have not broken any regulations they need to follow. So I dont require 
Sainsburys to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman