DRN-4460844
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after she made a claim on her 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M has travel insurance with Aviva provided as part of a packaged bank account. She 
(and her family) were due to fly abroad on 23 July from an airport some distance from where 
she lives. Miss M booked a train to take them there the day before. However, on 21 July she 
was told the train had been cancelled. Miss M says she didnt have a realistic alternative way 
of reaching the airport and cancelled the trip. She claimed on her policy for her irrecoverable 
accommodation costs. 
Aviva asked for further information about the claim on 24 July which Miss M provided. The 
following day she spoke to an adviser who said the claim was unlikely to be covered but she 
would discuss with her manager and call her back. As Miss M hadnt received a call, she 
contacted Aviva on 26 July and was wrongly told her claim would be paid. Miss M was told 
the next day her claim wasnt in fact covered. 
Unhappy with this she made a complaint.  Aviva considered further information she provided 
about the reasons she was unable to reach the airport and agreed to settle the claim as a 
gesture of goodwill on 3 August. It also agreed to pay £100 in recognition of the impact on 
her of its customer service failings. 
Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered and had been settled by Aviva as a 
gesture of goodwill. She didnt think the time taken to handle the claim was unreasonable. 
And she thought the further £100 in compensation it had offered was fair.  
Miss M didnt agree. She said by the time Aviva agreed to cover the claim the cost of 
rebooking a trip had increased by £643. She said that wouldnt have been the case if the 
claim had been paid when she was first told it would be. She thought she was out of pocket 
as a result of what it got wrong. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy. I can see this does provide 
cover for unrecoverable travel and accommodation costs where a trip is cancelled for one of 
the reasons specified in the policy. That includes:
Delay or cancellation of your pre-booked transport prevents you from leaving the UK on 
your outward journey and the carrier or their handling agent is unable to provide suitable 
alternative travel arrangements within 12 hours of the date and time of the scheduled 
departure as shown on your ticket/itinerary
I dont think that applies here because I think the pre-booked transport covered by that 
section would be Miss Ms outbound flight. And that wasnt cancelled; the issue was that 
Miss M says she couldnt reach the airport in order to catch it. I think the relevant section of 
cover here would in fact be Missed Departure which says 
If an unexpected transport delay, such as the vehicle you are travelling in breaking down, or 
the cancellation of scheduled public transport, means that you miss your pre-booked 
transport, we will pay for additional travel and accommodation costs you incur to reach your 
destination abroad, or home on your return journey. For each insured person, the most we 
will pay is £1,000.
So the policy might have covered additional costs Miss M incurred in making alternative 
arrangements to reach her destination following the cancellation of her train. But it doesnt 
cover unrecoverable accommodation costs where someone doesnt travel at all. So Im 
satisfied Aviva correctly turned down the claim Miss M made and the payment it 
subsequently agreed to make was a gesture of goodwill. As a result I dont agree with 
Miss M payment should have been made on 26 July. The decision to turn down the claim 
was correct; it was the information she was given in that call which was wrong. 
Miss M says the cost of rebooking her trip increased from that date to when payment was 
made at the start of August. But even if her claim had been one the cancellation section of 
her policy covered it would only pay out for unrecoverable costs that each insured person 
has paid or legally has to pay for their own unused personal travel and accommodation. It 
doesnt cover the difference between those costs and any new trip the policyholder books. 
In addition, I dont think any increased costs Miss M did have to pay came about because of 
something Aviva got wrong. In particular I can see she made her claim on 24 July and Aviva 
paid this as a gesture of goodwill on 3 August. I dont think nine working days is an 
unreasonable timescale for Aviva to consider and process a claim. Its unfortunate if the 
costs of Miss Ms trip increased during this period but I dont think thats something Aviva is 
responsible for. 
I would also add that while Miss M suggests shes suffered a loss of £643, I dont agree. 
Because her claim was paid despite it not being one that was actually covered by her policy, 
I think rather than being out of pocket shes actually received over £1,000 that she wasnt 
entitled to under a strict interpretation of the policy wording. 
However, I do accept that there were some customer service failings by Aviva when 
handling the claim. In particular I agree Aviva wrongly told Miss M her claim would be paid 
on 26 July. But in considering whether the £100 Aviva has offered here is fair, Im mindful of 
the fact Miss M had been told the day before her claim was unlikely to be covered and that 
was confirmed to her the day after. Taking everything into account I think the £100 Aviva has 
offered for customer service failings does enough to recognise the impact on Miss M of this 
and the other things it got wrong. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 
2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman