DRN-2740326
The complaint
Mr D has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU Mutual) unreasonably cancelled his motor policy as if it had never existed.
What happened
Mr D took out a commercial motor policy for his work van with NFU Mutual over the phone. It 
asked him whether he was a bankrupt or had any Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVA). 
Mr D said he didnt. So NFU Mutual issued his policy and sent Mr D the documents. It asked 
him to read these carefully and make sure everything was correct.
Later when NFU Mutual undertook its standard validation checks, it discovered Mr D did 
have an IVA. NFU Mutual then voided (as in cancelled as if it never existed) Mr Ds motor 
policy because its underwriting criteria did not permit to cover anyone with an IVA. NFU 
Mutual subsequently returned the premium Mr D paid. 
Mr D complained as he said given background noise, he didnt hear the question fully. But 
NFU Mutual wouldnt change its stance. So, Mr D brought his complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think NFU Mutual had done anything wrong. Mr D didnt agree so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mr D will be. However, my role is to 
assess whether NFU Mutual did anything wrong and given it simply doesnt provide any 
cover to people with IVAs, it remains that it didnt do anything wrong here.
I can also understand and appreciate Mr D said didnt hear the question asked by the NFU 
Mutual adviser on the phone. However, Ive listened to the two call recordings where the 
adviser set up this policy. Its in the first call recording where its clear to me the adviser 
asked the questions about IVAs and bankruptcy where Mr D answered no. There was no 
background noise and Mr D was clear with his response being no. Its also clear both the 
adviser and Mr D got along well chatting about other things too. There is no indication Mr D 
was having any trouble hearing the adviser at all and theres no indication that the question 
about IVAs in particular was unclear. 
Further, Mr D had the chance to check all the documents when NFU Mutual sent them to 
him on 11 June 2020. Had he said then that his details, more so about not having an IVA, 
werent correct, the matter might have been different given Mr D would have been inside the 
14-day cooling off period and so able to cancel his insurance without any penalties. 
When Mr D explained the situation to NFU Mutual it did ask its underwriters to review the 
matter, which I consider reasonable. It said it still would have declined to cover him, so in 
real terms NFU Mutual hasnt done anything wrong. Further I also consider it fair NFU 
Mutual returned the premium to Mr D.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman