DRN-3124581
The complaint
Miss H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss H took out a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage in December 1997. 
Miss H paid a monthly amount of £10.12 for the policy. It provided a monthly benefit of £200 
if Miss H was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant. This would have been paid for 
up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Miss H that the policy was optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account. Halifax says it would have done this. But Miss H 
says PPI was not discussed and she didnt know it had been applied to her account.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss Hs said, but the sale took place a long time ago, and 
neither party has been able to provide much information. Because of this, I need to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Miss H was sold her PPI. Using what I know generally of 
Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Miss H would have been 
given an option to take out the PPI and that Halifax would have gained her consent before 
adding it to her account. The payments were debited separately from the mortgage, so if 
Miss H didnt recognise what the transactions were for  I would have expected her to have 
queried them with Halifax much sooner.
Miss H says she was not given advice, but Halifax could not confirm this, so its treated the 
sale as though it did give advice. This puts more responsibility on Halifax  it means that as 
well as giving Miss H enough information about the policy, Halifax also had to check it was 
suitable for her. So, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given, and based 
on what Ive seen, I think it was.
I say this because Miss H was eligible for the policy and she doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of the terms which might have made it harder for her to claim on the policy, 
such as having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. 
Miss H says she was entitled to at least six months sick pay from her employer if she was 
too ill to work, that she had savings and an endowment policy with critical illness cover. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss H has said, but the sick pay shes referred to is 
unusually generous for the employer Miss H worked for given her length of service at the 
time of sale. So, in the absence of anything persuasive to support what Miss H has told us, I 
dont think the likely sick pay she would have been entitled to would have meant the policy 
wasnt useful to her. Even if Miss H would have received as much as shes said, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss H received and she could have made 
repeated claims subject to a requalification period.
While Miss H says she had an endowment policy  the PPI would have avoided a situation 
where shed need to surrender her endowment policy early and potentially lose out on future 
earnings, just to cover her repayments. And the critical illness cover that ran alongside it 
provided a different type of protection to PPI.
Miss H originally said she had between three and six months worth of other means, but she 
has now said that she had up to two years worth of savings she could have used. But I 
havent seen anything to explain why Miss H didnt say this initially and given Miss H applied 
for a mortgage without using these savings, it seems more likely than not that she did not 
intend to use these savings for her mortgage, so I think the PPI could have been useful to 
her if she fell on hard times. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Miss H at the time it 
was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Miss H.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Miss H all of the other information she needed. But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put her off taking the 
policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Miss Hs home. And 
the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Miss H and I dont think she lost out because of 
anything Halifax did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman