DRN-3688317
The complaint
Miss D says that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) were irresponsible in providing her with an 
overdraft facility when she opened an account with them. She says the charges for this 
caused her financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss D opened an account with Monzo and successfully applied for an overdraft with a £750 
overdraft limit in October 2019. From the end of November 2019 Miss D was overdrawn and 
didnt again see a credit balance.
Miss D got in touch with Monzo regarding financial difficulties she was facing. In response 
Monzo froze the charges on Miss Ds overdraft account, went through her income and 
expenditure and tried to set up a repayment plan to help her repay the overdraft.
Miss D complained to Monzo about the overdraft lending and charges. Although Monzo did 
not feel the overdraft lending was done irresponsibly as a gesture of goodwill it refunded all 
overdraft fees and interest applied to Miss Ds account amounting to £132.96 leaving Miss D 
with a debit balance of £617.04.
Miss D was dis-satisfied with this. She wants Monzo to wipe her debt due to mental health 
issues. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ds concerns and didnt think Monzo had lent 
irresponsibly on the information they had and thought that what Monzo had already done 
was a fair way to settle her complaint. 
Miss D disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Monzo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Monzo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss D 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Monzo did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Miss Ds overdraft. Miss D was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks Monzo carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Miss D would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
Monzo says Miss D opened an account and applied for a £750 overdraft online in October 
2019. The application was fully credit scored taking into account information Miss D provided 
about her income and outgoings as well as information held by other lenders provided 
through credit reference checks. And based on this information Monzo was satisfied her 
score was high enough to provide her with the overdraft facility she requested.
I accept that Miss Ds financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to Monzo at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Monzo this. But Monzo was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there is no evidence of any adverse 
information shown on the credit check, the amount of credit being advanced (£750) was 
relatively low and her affordability capacity of £330 based on income and expenditure 
declared, I think Monzos checks went far enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. But in this case, I dont think this matters because Monzo has already agreed 
to do what Id recommend if Id found it had done something wrong.
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business provides a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was no longer unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable. In this case Monzo as a 
gesture of goodwill has already refunded all overdraft and interest applied to Miss Ds 
overdraft. 
Monzo has told us that Miss D is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have 
were made, and she was refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by her 
overdraft. So while Miss D has been left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, 
Monzo has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
So bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what Monzo has already done for Miss D is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Monzo Bank Ltd has already done is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman