DRN-2972067
The complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) hasnt refunded money under a chargeback 
request she made.
What happened
Ms M purchased an item from an online merchant in February 2021 for a total cost of £92.99 
using her NewDay backed credit card.
Ms M says she never received the item shed ordered. After unsuccessfully raising her 
concerns with the merchant, she contacted NewDay asking them to assist her in retrieving 
her money. 
NewDay temporarily credited Ms Ms account whilst it raised a chargeback dispute, however 
the merchant defended the chargeback saying the item had been delivered to the address 
provided by Ms M. Following the merchants defence, NewDay declined Ms Ms claim and re-
debited her account.
Ms M complained to NewDay about the outcome. She asked them to review their decision 
saying the retailer is responsible for goods up until they are delivered. She requested 
NewDay make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to retrieve 
her funds, but they didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms M brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
She said chargebacks are decided by the schemes rules and not on the merits of the 
dispute between Ms M and the retailer, and as the retailer had provided evidence to show 
the item had been shipped to the address Ms M had provided, she didnt think NewDay 
needed to do anything else.
Our investigator also explained raising a Section 75 claim wasnt an option for NewDay, as 
the cash price of the item purchased was below £100.
Ms M remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Ms M, Im not upholding 
her complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
First, I think its important to say I understand Ms Ms concerns, she paid for an item which 
she says shes not received, and I have no reason to doubt her. But its also important to say 
that my role isnt to look at the merchants responsibilities under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, my powers dont allow me to do this. Instead, my role is to decide if NewDay acted 
fairly and reasonably when attempting to retrieve Ms Ms money.
Due to the cash value of the transaction this isnt a section 75 claim which wouldve given 
Ms M a legal right to claim against NewDay if the merchant is in breach of contract. Because 
Ms Ms transaction was less than £100, NewDay could only raise a chargeback claim on her 
behalf but this doesnt give her an automatic right to a refund.
The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and a card issuer doesnt have to do a chargeback. 
But NewDay did raise a claim for the reason of goods or services not being provided. As Ms 
Ms claim is that shes not received the item, Im satisfied NewDay raised the claim correctly.
Chargebacks are decided based on the specific card schemes rules, not on the merits of the 
dispute between the cardholder and the merchant. In this case it is the Mastercard schemes 
rules that apply. Where the merchant defends the chargeback, the bank doesnt have to 
carry out a detailed investigation, rather they must decide if the evidence provided satisfies 
the schemes rules. 
Ive looked at the chargeback schemes rules Mastercard set out. They say for a merchant to 
defend a chargeback claim against goods and services not provided:
The acquirer can provide evidence to support one of the following:
 The goods or services were provided.
 The merchant was willing and able to provide the goods or services and the   
cardholder refused to accept the goods or services.
 The merchant and the cardholder agreed to provide the goods or services at 
a later date.
 The chargeback was invalid.
In this case the merchant has provided evidence that the goods in this instance were 
shipped to the address provided by Ms M when she placed her order. I understand Ms M 
has challenged why the merchant hasnt provided evidence the item was successfully 
delivered; however, the specific rules here dont require them to. So, I cant fairly ask 
NewDay to ask them to do this.
I can understand why Ms M is unhappy. Shes clearly had issues receiving previous orders 
from the same merchant which shes brought to our attention, but its important to say I cant 
look into a dispute between her and the merchant. What I have looked into is if NewDay 
have fairly applied the chargeback scheme rules. 
Whilst Id like to reassure Ms M Im not saying I think the item was delivered or not, under 
the chargeback rules I think NewDay has made a reasonable attempt to get her money back 
and Im satisfied the evidence they were provided by the merchant meets the rules of the 
scheme. So, I cant fairly ask NewDay to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman