DRN-3138543
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty 
car. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr H acquired a second-hand car costing £7,999 funded in part by a 
fianc agreement with Clydesdale. The car was some three years old and had covered 
41,996 miles. In April 2020 Mr H complained to Clydesdale that the car had been in an 
accident and he said he wished to reject it. He said that the car needed new tyres regularly 
and a mechanic had asked of the car had been in an accident. He also said that another 
mechanic had pointed out some over spraying and had also asked if the car had been in an 
accident.
Clydesdale contacted the dealer which had already been contacted by Mr H. It explained 
that before the car was sold it had been subjected to a full check. As a result, a tyre had 
been replaced and the front bumper had been resprayed. It added that the HPI check 
showed no record of any accident. The dealer said that if Mr H provided a report which 
showed otherwise it would reconsider the matter.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that he had not seen anything 
which persuaded him that the car had been in an accident or had had neem repaired badly. 
Mr H said he had needed to buy 12 tyres during his ownership and he also submitted 
photographs of the car doors and apparent gaps which he believed showed the car had 
been in an accident. He asked an independent company to provide a report, but it 
considered too much time had passed since the sale. Our investigator spoke to the assessor 
and was told that by the time Mr H had complained it was too late for a meaningful report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I appreciate Mr Hs concerns, but to enable me to uphold his complaint I need some 
sufficient evidence to show the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale. I do not 
consider I have such evidence.
Mr H first complained to the bank in April 2020 some 17 months after he acquired the car. I 
have noted the MOT history of the car and in November 2029 it had covered 59,275 miles 
and by November 2020 it had covered 75,986 miles. I consider the car had covered a 
considerable mileage by the time Mr H first complained so it is difficult to demonstrate that it 
wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.
I do not have direct evidence from the two mechanics who Mr H says queried whether the 
car had been in an accident. Simply querying whether the car had been in an accident does 
not demonstrate that it had been. I would need to see some clear analysis and explanations 
to show me clearly that the car had been in an accident. 
Two apparent queries by mechanics without any documentary material do not amount to 
clear evidence that the car was in an accident. Nor do the photographs supplied by Mr H. 
There was no report of any accident on the HPI check and while this is not a definitive record 
it does not support Mr Hs claim. Quite simply I cannot safely conclude the car had been in 
an accident.
I also cannot see that the car was badly repaired. I believe Mr H has needed to purchase 12 
tyres and he thinks that is due to the car not being right. As I have pointed doubt he has 
covered a pretty high mileage so he would have had to replace the tyres at least once if not 
more. There can be a number of reasons why tyres need to be replaced and it does not 
mean that the car had been in an accident. 
The dealer has explained that the bumper had been resprayed due minor damage and that 
does not mean it wasnt fit for purpose. Nor do the photographs provided by Mr H 
demonstrate that the car was faulty at the point of sale. I appreciate that my decision will be 
disappointing for Mr H but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision I that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman