DRN-2945226
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo refused to 
refund her for items she didnt receive. 
What happened
Miss H holds a credit account with Jacamo. In July 2020 she ordered two iPads. She tracked 
the items every day, but no delivery date was given. She also contacted Jacamo via live chat 
and says she was told that the courier would make contact prior to delivery.
Miss H noticed that the items had been charged to her account, but she still hadnt received 
them. She complained to Jacamo.
In response, Jacamo said the items had been despatched to Miss H on 22 July 2020 and 
that the Royal Mail tracking information showed that the package was delivered to Miss Hs 
address on 23 July 2020 and left with a member of the household. Jacamo advised Miss H 
that because the items had been delivered, it was unable to refund her order.
Miss H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think Jacamo had acted 
unreasonably in placing weight on the tracking information from Royal Mail, and she was 
unable to say that Jacamo had handled the complaint unfairly.
Miss H didnt agree. She said she hadnt received the items and that there had been no-one 
at home on 23 July 2020 to sign for the parcel. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs claim is made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which says she 
has a right to claim against the credit provider if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services. Here, Miss H claims that Jacamo 
breached her contract with them by not delivering the iPads.
I need to determine whether, on the balance of probabilities, the available evidence suggests 
that the iPads werent delivered to Miss H.
Ive reviewed the available evidence. The tracking information provided by Royal Mail shows 
that a package was delivered to Miss Hs address on 23 July 2020 at 9.17am and that it was 
left with a member of the household.
Theres no signature for the package. Jacamo has told this service that at the time, and 
because of the pandemic, Royal Mail werent obtaining signatures but were leaving 
packages on the floor and waiting for the door to be opened before leaving the property. 
Miss H has said there was no-one at home at the time Royal Mail says it left the package. 
She also says that she tracked the items after 23 July 2020, and it showed as delivery 
unconfirmed. This service asked Miss H to provide screen shots showing this information but 
I cant see that these have been provided.
I understand that Miss H feels very strongly about being charged for items she says she 
didnt receive. However, taking all the available evidence into account, I find the Royal Mail 
information to be persuasive and on balance I think its more likely than not that the items 
were delivered to Miss Hs address.
In conclusion, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract. I think Jacamo acted 
fairly in the way it handled the complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman