The complaint
Mr M complains The New India Assurance Company Limited ("New India") declined a claim 
he made under his motor insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy exclusion New India has relied on to decline the claim explains that
damage to Mr M's vehicle caused by water ingress, won't be covered where he has
chosen to drive through deep water. New India has said Mr M knew the area was
prone to flooding, and he chose to drive through the water instead of stop.
The evidence after the event, given the damage caused, supports the water was
deep in relation to Mr M's vehicle's ride height. However, I'm not persuaded at the
point of entering the water New India has shown Mr M had knowledge of how deep
the water was. As it has said in its correspondence, it is very difficult to define the
word deep, as the volume of water that is considered deep for a car with a low profile
can be considerably different to that which would impact a 4x4 vehicle.
While Mr M mentioned in the call the road does have flooding signs on it, he didn't
confirm it did that day, the road was open and other vehicles had travelled through
the body of water without any issues. Therefore I'm not persuaded he
knowingly chose to drive through deep water.
For these reasons I uphold this complaint and I require New India to now deal with Mr M's 
claim in line the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr M's vehicle has been in storage since the incident, and he has incurred storage
charges. As I don't think New India declined the claim fairly it should, once provided
with evidence by Mr M, pay the cost of that storage. If Mr M has already paid the
storage charges, New India should reimburse Mr M and pay interest on that amount
at 8% simple per annum for the date he paid the charges to the date of settlement.
DRN-1676275Mr M has said he has lost earnings as a result of his vehicle being unusable and it
being on finance which he had to pay off. But he hasn't provided any further evidence
to support those losses or explained how he mitigated them, so I won't be
considering those issues further here or will I be requiring New India to cover them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr M's complaint against The New India Assurance 
Company Limited and require it to now deal with Mr M's claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. If it makes a payment to Mr M, it should add interest on 
that amount at 8% simple per annum from the date it declined the claim to the date of 
payment. 
The New India Assurance Company Limited should also, once provided with evidence, pay 
the storage costs incurred for the vehicle. If Mr M has already paid the storage costs, The 
New India Assurance Company Limited should reimburse Mr M and pay interest on that 
amount at 8% simple per annum for the date he paid the charges to the date of settlement.
If The New India Assurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from those interest payments, it should tell Mr M how much 
its taken off. It should also give him a certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman