DRN-2687606
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Northridge Finance Limited (Northridge).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Northridge, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was about 
three and a half years old and had already completed about 67,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect a limited amount of wear and tear, but I dont think theyd 
expect the water pump to fail in the first few days.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Northridge were responsible for its 
quality.
Here, I think there was a fault with the car when it was supplied as only a few days later the 
water pump needed replacing.
At that point Mr K didnt have to allow the business an opportunity to repair the car. He could 
have exercised his right to reject the vehicle as there was a fault with it in the first 30 days.
But I think its clear Mr K authorised a repair at that point. 
When the water pump failed again in November 2019, five months after the car was 
supplied, I think legislation would have supported Mr K rejecting the car again as legislation 
only allows a business one chance to repair a fault that is present at the point of supply and, 
as this was the same component that had failed initially, I think it was likely it was a 
reoccurrence of the original fault.
But, again, I think Mr K authorised a repair on the car.
When the car failed again in May 2020 I can see Mr K wrote to Northridge and at this point 
he asked to reject the vehicle.
Northridge arent responsible for all the faults that happen on the car. Legislation says that if 
a fault happens after more than six months we are to assume it wasnt a fault present or 
developing when the car was supplied and therefore not the business responsibility; unless 
the consumer can demonstrate otherwise.
I think, on balance, that Mr K has provided sufficient evidence the failure in May 2020 was 
related to the problems he experienced with the cars coolant system in 2019 and that 
Northridge should therefore have allowed him to reject the car.
I say that because:
the diagnostic report suggests that was the case as it says there is an historic fault 
code relating to the coolant recirculation pump. Thats the same fault code that was 
present in 22 July 2019 when the pump was first replaced. It seems likely this fault 
was never remedied;
Ive seen correspondence that shows the reason for the car being booked in on 22 
October 2020 was to investigate coolant leak. Ive not seen evidence the dealership 
were asked to repair the car. By repairing the vehicle, the dealership have denied    
Mr K an opportunity to demonstrate the exact nature of the fault;
whilst the dealership have explained this fault wasnt related to the water pump they 
havent disputed that it related to the coolant system that theyd already completed 
repairs to on two separate occasions. Because the dealership have completed an 
unauthorised repair it is no longer possible to ascertain whether the repairs they 
completed to the pump should have been more extensive at the time or to check 
whether this led to the subsequent failure in May 2020. 
So, I think this car has most probably experienced a further failure that is likely to have been 
related to the problems Mr K was experiencing with it in 2019 and was therefore developing 
at the point of supply. 
In those circumstances Northridge should now allow Mr K to reject the car.
Putting things right
Northridge should end the finance agreement and cover any collection costs that may be 
incurred.Mr K has provided a receipt for £1,900 from the dealership that suggests he did pay a 
deposit for the car. Northridge will need to refund that as Mr K will have been deprived of the 
money. They should add interest to that refund.
Mr K left his car at the dealership and hasnt driven it since May 2020. He appears to have 
continued to pay his finance instalments and Northridge should therefore refund any finance 
instalments hes paid since May 2020, adding interest as Mr K has been deprived of that 
money.
Mr K has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to return the car to the dealership 
on several occasions and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier in his favour. In those circumstances I think Northridge 
should pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Northridge will also need to refund the £41 Mr K paid for the diagnostic report he 
commissioned to support his claim the car should be rejected. They should add interest to 
that refund as well.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Northridge Finance Limited 
to:
1. end the finance agreement and pay any costs necessary to collect the car;
2. refund any deposit paid by Mr K and add 8% simple interest per year to the refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
3. refund all finance instalments Mr K has paid from, and including, May 2020;
4. refund the £41 it cost Mr K to commission the diagnostic report;
5. pay Mr K £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
6. remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
this issue.
7. add 8% simple interest per year, from the date of payment to the date of settlement, 
to the refunds made under points 2, 3 and 4 above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman