DRN-1186539
 
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs F took out the PPI in December 2002 at the same time as she arranged the credit card 
in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of Payment Protection 
Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs F says the optional nature of the policy wasnt made clear to her. The credit card 
application form has a separate section for insurance. There is a pre-printed cross in the box 
to request PPI. From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, I think there would 
have been a discussion about PPI and that the cross would only have been entered in the 
box if Mrs F said that she wanted the policy. The relevant section of the application form also 
has the option to select another insurance product, but the box next to that has been left 
blank to decline it.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Fs recollection of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs F has said, but looking at the 
evidence, I think it is more likely that the optional nature of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Mrs F probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if 
she no longer remembers doing so.
BoS advised Mrs F to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mrs F it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, 
it was suitable for her.
Mrs Fs employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mrs F would have received full pay for. And Mrs F didnt have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could have provided her 
with a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time.Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs F wasnt affected by any of those things. 
As I think that Mrs F had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further 
information would have caused her to change her mind.
 
This means that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mrs F paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc has already given Mrs F 
back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman