DRN-3949441
The complaint
Miss D complains about two finance agreements she took out with Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In October 2021 Miss D acquired a car using finance provided by MBFS under a finance 
agreement. I will call this car, car 1. A third party car dealership which I will refer to as M 
acted as the credit broker for this finance. 
However, a week or two after the acquisition Miss D contacted M because she was unhappy 
with car 1. The reason why she was unhappy was because shed discussed the car before 
she acquired it with an employee of M who Ill call Mr K. Mr K had told her that car 1 had 
folding wing mirrors, but it did not. In addition, before she acquired car 1, Miss D had also 
seen a written document setting out the specifications for car 1 and this also mentioned 
folding wing mirrors. Miss D indicates that one of the reasons she acquired car 1 was for the 
folding wing mirrors. 
M took several weeks to respond to Miss D. But when M did come back to her it suggested 
to Miss D that she might like to buy another car instead which did have the folding wing 
mirrors. Ill call this car car 2. M told Miss D this would cost her nothing extra. So Miss D 
made a cash payment to buy car 1 outright. Then, in December 2021 Miss D entered into a 
new finance agreement with MBFS for car 2. Under this finance agreement Miss D also part-
exchanged car 1 for car 2. 
Miss D is also unhappy about the finance agreement for car 2 because she tells us she is 
now £8,000 out of pocket. (Initially Miss D said she was £2,000 down but she later changed 
that figure). She tells us M did not explain the ins and outs of the finance agreement for car 2 
properly. Specifically, it did not explain the financial impact on her, in that she is now paying 
more for car 2 than she did for car 1. And she indicates it also did not tell her how long the 
contract would last for. Moreover, if M had given her an adequate explanation she would not 
have gone ahead with the contract. 
Miss D went back and forth with M but ultimately they could not agree a way forward. 
Therefore, Miss D complained to this service.
Once Miss Ds complaint was with us, MBFS gave us its final response to her complaint. 
MBFSs stance is that Miss D entered into a finance agreement with it in relation to car 1. 
But after the finance agreement was entered into Miss D then decided she wanted a car with 
power folding wing mirrors, therefore M tried to find her one. It did find a car with power 
folding wing mirrors but this car, car 2 was of a higher specification than car 1 and would 
cost more, M told Miss D this. M documented the costs involved in an appraisal document 
which M went through with Miss D before she entered into the finance agreement for car 2. 
Moreover, MBFS noted that Miss D had signed the agreement for car 2. MBFSs stance is 
also that it was Miss Ds responsibility to read the agreement before she signed it. If it did not 
reflect what shed agreed to then she ought to have raised it then and there, but she did not. 
Therefore the agreement can be taken to accurately reflect the terms on which shed agreed 
to contract.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Miss Ds complaint ought to be upheld.
It appears that MBFS accepted our investigators recommendation, but Miss D did not. In 
summary, she did not agree that we had looked at the information fairly or carried out an 
adequate investigation before making the recommendation.
Miss D asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The finance agreements, namely the hire purchase agreements, in this case are regulated 
consumer credit agreements. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to 
them. 
What statements were most likely made about car 1 before Miss D acquired it?
Miss Ds stance is that M misrepresented car 1 as having folding wing mirrors. She tells us 
Mr K made this misrepresentation to her. It appears she is suggesting that this 
misrepresentation was made in conversation with her, so this was a verbal 
misrepresentation. She also indicates that she saw and discussed a written specification for 
car 1 which was provided by M. And that this specification said car 1 had folding wing 
mirrors. So this was a written misrepresentation.
Moreover, Miss D indicates that these misrepresentations were made prior to her entering 
into the first contract with MBFS that is the contract for car 1. In this context a 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induced Miss D to enter into the contract 
with MBFS. 
MBFS does not agree any such misrepresentations were made. Rather, its position is that it 
was only after Miss D entered into the hire purchase agreement for car 1 that she came and 
told M that she now wanted a car with power folding wing mirrors.
Under the relevant law, which includes section 56 (section 56) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, MBFS can be held to account for misrepresentations made by M. This is because 
section 56 stipulates that finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said 
by a credit broker or a supplier (where theres a relevant type of agreement in place) before 
the consumer takes out the credit agreement. As Ive already mentioned, M acted as a credit 
broker in relation to the hire purchase agreement for car 1. The relevant type of agreement is 
in place here because Miss D entered into a hire purchase agreement.
Miss Ds complaint is based, in part on verbal misrepresentation. The difficulty for Miss D is 
that by their very nature alleged verbal misrepresentations are hard to substantiate and I 
therefore have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of probabilities. Mr K no longer works for M so we cant locate him to ask him for his version of events. Miss 
D says that the folding wing mirrors were key to her decision to contract. But I note by her 
own reckoning it took her at least a week maybe two weeks to complain to M. I might have 
expected her to have acted sooner if the car shed acquired did not have the feature she 
says she was promised, and which, in part, made her buy the car.  
Moreover, the information I have seen about what Miss D initially complained about 
suggests she was complaining about the finance agreement for car 2 rather than 
misrepresentations made about car 1. 
Miss D has sent us written specifications that do not contain any representations about car 1 
having folding wing mirrors. We asked her to provide any written specifications she had for 
car 1 that were provided by M before she acquired car 1, which said car 1 had folding wing 
mirrors but we have not received anything along those lines, from her.
Ive thought about whether the fact that Miss D changed car 1 for car 2 in such a short space 
of time makes it more likely than not that car 1 was misrepresented to her in the way that 
she says it was. But there could have been any number of reasons why Miss D chose to 
change cars so quickly. I dont doubt she did want a car with folding wing mirrors when she 
entered into the contract for car 2. But it does not automatically follow that she had wanted 
this when she contracted for car 1 and that she was promised this.
For all of these reasons I am not persuaded that M made the verbal and written 
misrepresentations in relation to car 1 which Miss D complains about. It follows I dont 
uphold this part of Miss Ds complaint. 
What statements were most likely made about the finance agreement for car 2 before Miss 
D and MBFS contracted?
Miss D also complains that M misrepresented her financial obligations under the hire 
purchase agreement for car 2. MBFS does not accept what she says about this.
Again under section 56 MBFS would be responsible for misrepresentations about the 
finance agreement, made by M as the credit broker before Miss D and MBFS entered into 
this contract.  
Ive taken a look at the events leading up to Miss D and MBFS contracting for a second time, 
this time for car 2.
Miss D indicates that she thought she was entering into an agreement that would essentially 
formalise a like for like exchange. In particular, she thought she would pay no more for car 2 
than she did for car 1. She indicates this is what M told her.
But I note that car 2 is a higher specification than car 1. Accordingly car 2 cost more than car 
1. I find it unlikely that M did not mention this to Miss D. In the circumstances, it does not 
make sense that M would also have said Miss D would pay no more for car 2 than she had 
for car 1 if she entered into the new agreement. 
Further, Miss D has not said she did not see what MBFS calls the appraisal document 
(which appears to be the document headed offer sheet) before she went ahead with the 
deal for car 2. Indeed she as well as MBFS sent us of a copy of it. This document sets out 
very clearly what shed have to pay for car 2, the net part exchange value of car 1, and what 
shed have to pay to settle the finance on car 1. It also sets out the term of her finance 
agreement for car 2.  I find it makes it clear there was a shortfall, and that Miss D would 
therefore have to pay more under the agreement for car 2 than she had done under the 
agreement for car 1.
If M had told Miss D that shed pay the same under the agreement for car 2 as shed paid 
under the agreement for car 1, then I find it difficult to understand why Miss D did not query 
this document if it directly contradicted what she had been told. In other words, I consider it reasonable to expect Miss D to have ensured that any representations that she felt formed 
an important part of the contract were clearly stated.
There also appears to be no dispute that Miss D did sign the hire purchase agreement for 
car 2. It is my understanding that that agreement was for finance of £8,103.19 and Miss D 
agreed to pay £158.69 for 60 months. These were not the same terms as she had under the 
agreement for car 1.
I think it is reasonable to assume, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they 
understand the terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. I accept 
that many of us might find it tedious to read through the terms and conditions of an 
agreement before signing it - particularly so when we think we already know what the 
contents are. But it does offer an opportunity for mistakes to be corrected and potential 
misunderstandings to be avoided. 
Miss D did enter two separate finance agreements with MBFS in quick succession. Ive 
thought about whether this behaviour makes it more likely than not that Miss D only did this 
because the agreement for car 2 was misrepresented to her. But I am not persuaded this is 
the most likely explanation. She could have done this simply because she wanted a higher 
specification car, or because she found car 1 not to her liking for any number of reasons. 
Therefore, I am not satisfied that her behaviour here in the circumstances, must lead me to 
find that M misrepresented the agreement for car 2.
For all of these reasons, in the circumstances, I find I have no proper basis for saying that 
the hire purchase agreement for car 2 was misrepresented to Miss D. It follows I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint either.
It follows, since I have not upheld this complaint that I have no proper basis to tell MBFS it 
must offer Miss D the redress she asks it for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman