DRN-3807058
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the decision of QIC Europe Ltd to decline his claim made under 
his home insurance policy for damage to his shed.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr A contacted QIC to say that his shed had been damaged during storms that 
had occurred in February. QIC appointed a surveyor to inspect the damaged shed in June, 
following which it declined the claim. QIC stated that its surveyor had concluded that the 
shed was freestanding and had not been fixed to the base. Its view was that the structural 
integrity of the shed was compromised due to the way it had been built.
QIC accepted that there had been storm force winds in the area that Mr A lives in during 
February. However, it concluded that the damage to the shed was not the direct result of a 
storm, and was instead the result of the way that it was built/installed.
Mr A disagreed with QICs decision and brought a complaint to this service. He highlighted 
that the shed had stood for several years. Mr As view was that the cause of the sheds 
collapse was the strength of the storm force winds. He explained that QIC had told him to 
take photos of the sheds contents prior to the surveyor visiting, and that he had had to move 
sections of the wall in order to get to the contents. When the surveyor inspected the shed, 
Mr A said its condition had been affected by the fact he had had to move some of the walls.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint, concluding that QIC had acted fairly when 
declining the claim.
In response Mr A stated that, contrary to the comments made by the surveyor in his report, 
the shed was not lightweight. He said it was made of plastic and metal, and was not much 
lighter than an equivalent wood shed. Mr A disagreed that the shed was freestanding, saying 
that it was on a base and secured to the ground. He said that the surveyor didnt check this 
at the time of his inspection. Mr A also said that the surveyor did not enter his garden where 
the shed had been sited, instead choosing to stand in the garden next door, taking his 
photos from there. From that position, Mr A questioned how the surveyor could reach a 
conclusion that the shed wasnt secured to the ground.
Following the storm, Mr A said that the base and bottom metal runner of the shed remained 
in the same position as it had been prior to its collapse. He maintained that storm force 
winds had caused the collapse, and stated that these had been in excess of 100mph.
The investigator asked QIC for further comments. It stated that Mr A had told the surveyor 
that the shed was freestanding. It also considered that the photos showed the walls had 
become detached from both the roof and the base, and stated that this was because the 
walls were not correctly tied into the roof, compromising its structural integrity. QIC said that 
if the walls had correctly been tied in, there would be visible signs of broken fittings, and the 
wall and roof panels would be seen to have been torn apart from each other.
The investigators view of the complaint remained the same, and Mr A has since provided 
further comments and photos. Mr A has reiterated his recollections that the surveyor did not 
enter his garden, but instead used a side path and stood in the next door neighbours 
garden. He has provided a photo showing where he said the surveyor stood. He has also 
repeated that the shed had a base and ground anchors.
Mr A says that the reason the walls were stacked to the side of the shed was because hed 
been asked by QIC to account for the contents in it, so he had placed the walls there. His 
view is that QIC are penalising him unfairly for taking actions that it asked him to, and that if 
he hadnt taken these actions, the claim would have been paid. Mr A has commented that 
the shed has fallen where it was standing. In his view, this shows that it was attached to the 
ground below. He says the side panels were not inspected by the surveyor for damage.
Unhappy with the investigators assessment, Mr A has asked that an ombudsman review 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As claim was considered under the cover provided by the policy for storm damage, in 
line with his understanding that violent winds caused the damage to the shed. When 
considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this service generally 
looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of the event claimed 
for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the identified storm the 
main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we would normally 
expect an insurer to cover the claim.
Both parties agree that in February 2022, there were storm force winds in the vicinity of Mr 
As house. Mr A has said that the winds reached around 100mph. Our investigator ran a 
weather report for the postcode that Mr A lives in, over the period from 17th to 23rd February. 
This showed peak gusts of 84mph. Although this speed is not as high as Mr A believes his 
home experienced at this time, these were clearly powerful storm force winds.
In my view, damage to buildings such as Mr As shed can be caused by winds of this speed. 
Consequently what I need to determine is whether the storm force winds that occurred were 
the main cause of the damage sustained to the shed.
The surveyor who inspected the shed described it as lightweight, but Mr A disputes this 
description of it. The surveyor observed the wall panels were displaced, but Mr A has stated 
this was because QIC had asked him to retrieve contents from the shed, leading to him 
having to remove some walls. The surveyor stated that the shed base formed a plastic grid, 
and that Mr A had told him the shed was freestanding and unfixed at its base. Mr A states 
this is incorrect; the shed was secured to the ground.
The overall conclusion of the surveyor was that the shed was not structurally sound before 
the storm occurred, and that consequently the storm was not the dominant cause of its 
collapse. QIC later asked one of its in house surveyors to review the claim, and he 
concluded that due to the way it was built, the shed did not have sufficient structural integrity, 
leading to its collapse. He said the photos suggested that the walls were not correctly tied 
into the base or the roof.Mr A says one of the reasons that QIC has come to an unfair decision on his claim is 
because the visiting surveyor did not in fact enter his garden, and therefore viewed the shed 
from a distance away. QIC believes that the surveyor did enter Mr As garden. Clearly I 
cannot determine for certain whether the surveyor did go into Mr As garden. However, in my 
view the report provided by the surveyor together with his photos indicates on balance that 
he did observe the condition of the shed in some detail, whether or not that took place in Mr 
As garden or in the path or garden next to it.
I also appreciate that Mr A disputes a large part of the surveyors findings regarding how the 
shed was built, and what damage the surveyor observed. In assessing this matter, I must 
balance the evidence that has been provided by the parties. Mr A has clear concerns about 
the expertise of the visiting surveyor and the thoroughness of his inspection. Whilst I note his 
comments, I consider it reasonable to view the surveyor as an expert, and therefore to place 
some weight on his observations of the damage that he saw.
Mr A has provided his own detailed description of the shed, and I have thought carefully 
about how he has said it was constructed. I also acknowledge his comments that part of the 
reason for the condition of the shed when the surveyor saw it was the result of QIC 
requesting that he take its contents out. But overall, taking into account the expert evidence 
that has been provided by both the visiting surveyor and QICs in house surveyor, my view 
on balance is that it is more likely than not that the main cause of the sheds collapse was 
the nature of its construction, rather than the storm force winds.
I realise that Mr A will be disappointed with my findings, and I am sorry to learn about the 
damage that was sustained to his shed. However, my conclusion is that QIC acted 
reasonably when it declined the claim made on the basis that the damage was not caused 
by an insured event covered by the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023. 
John Swain
Ombudsman