DRN-1834756
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Complete Cover Group Ltd charged too much to cancel her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A held a motor insurance policy with her insurer from October 2018. The policy was 
arranged through Complete Cover, a broker.
The policy was paid for using a finance agreement, provided by a third-party company. And 
Mrs A agreed to repay this finance with an up-front payment, followed by 11 equal monthly 
instalments. The agreement accrued interest. 
In April 2019 Mrs A asked Complete Cover to cancel her policy after she replaced her car 
with a new vehicle. She received an email from Complete Cover in April 2019, setting out the 
refund of premiums (£258.20), the cancellation charge (£125), and the outstanding amount 
owed under her finance agreement (£569.54). 
Mrs A was unhappy with the deductions set out by Complete Cover as she said she was told 
the cancellation fee would be £50, not £125, when she bought the policy. And she was 
unhappy to find there was an outstanding amount still owing on the finance.
Complete Cover said it felt it had made clear the costs attached to cancelling the policy at 
the point of sale. So it maintained its position that the figures quoted in its email of April 2019 
were correct. Unhappy with this, Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mrs As complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She 
thought the business calculations for the outstanding finance owed and the refund due were 
fair. And she thought Complete Cover had made it clear when the policy was sold, that there 
would be a charge of £125 for cancelling outside the 14-day cooling-off period. 
But she also thought the cancellation charge of £125 was high. And she said that as 
Complete Cover hadnt been able to adequately justify this cost, (which shed asked it to 
evidence on several occasions), she recommended it refund Mrs A £50 plus interest, to 
bring the cost down to £75, which she felt more reasonable.
Complete Cover, unhappy with the investigators findings, requested a final decision. So the 
case has come to me, as an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the email Complete Cover sent Mrs A in April 2019, setting out the cancellation 
costs. The email explained that she still owed £569.54 on the finance agreement that was 
used to purchase her insurance. And in addition to this, she was charged £125 to cancel the 
policy, in line with Complete Covers terms and conditions. Taking her total costs to £694.54. 
Ive seen evidence from the finance provider to confirm there was £569.54 owing on the 
finance agreement at the point of cancellation, so Im satisfied this was an accurate figure. 
And the April email set out that Mrs As insurer was also refunding her £258.20, which, when 
deducted from the £694.54, would have left £436.34 owing  the same amount Complete 
Cover requested to close her policy. So based on the above, Im satisfied Complete Covers 
calculations are correct. 
Businesses are entitled to apply a cancellation charge at the point of cancelling a policy so 
long as it has made that charge clear, and that the charge applied is reasonable. Mrs A said 
she was told the cancellation fee would be just £50 at the point of sale, and not the £125 
Complete Cover has charged. So Ive listened to the call between Complete Cover and Mrs 
A when it arranged the policy for her. 
The advisor explained on the call that finance would be provided through a third party, and 
that the advance borrowed would be sent to Complete Cover to pay her premium. It also 
explained that while shed chosen to make monthly payments, this didnt mean she was 
entering into a monthly insurance contract. And said that if she needed to cancel the policy, 
she should speak to Complete Cover first, as this may be subject to a fee, charges and a 
final balance.
Complete Cover then explained that during the cooling off period, there would be a charge of 
£50 if she chose to cancel. And that after the cooling off period, she could cancel at any 
time, but this would be subject to a charge of £125. It also explained that she might be 
entitled to a refund of premiums if she had paid in full, but if she had opted to pay by 
instalments, a balance may still be due.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of business that were provided to Mrs A when 
she took out the policy. There is a section labelled cancellations that explains that Complete 
Cover will charge £50 for any cancellations made before the policy starts, or within 14 days 
from the inception of the policy. There is then a section that states: After 14 days  our 
charge is £125, or for customers who have renewed with us our charge is £75.
So based on the above, I think Complete Cover made it clear to Mrs A that there would be a 
charge for cancellation, and that the cost, if she cancelled after 14 days, would be £125.
While Im satisfied the above charge was brought to Mrs As attention, £125 is particularly 
high, and I dont feel its proportionate to the work involved in processing the cancellation. 
On occasions, as a service, we may consider a higher cost like this fair, if a business is able 
to provide evidence to justify the reasonableness of the charge made. 
We asked Complete Cover to justify its £125 cancellation fee. It responded, giving a number 
of reasons for its costs, one of which, was to cover the amount charged from the aggregator 
from where the policy was sourced.
But despite asking Complete Cover on several occasions to show us something from the 
aggregator to evidence the above cost, Complete Cover has still not provided this. So on 
balance, Im not persuaded the £125 charge fairly reflects the costs involved in processing 
this cancellation. And I think that in Mrs As case, an amount of £75 for the cancellation of 
her policy would be more reasonable. So Complete Cover should refund the difference 
between these two figures. Putting things right
I instruct Complete Cover Group Ltd to 
refund Mrs A £50  the difference between the £125 charged and the £75 I consider 
reasonable; and
pay interest* on this refund at 8% simple from the date it was charged to the date of 
settlement.
*If Complete Cover Group Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint and Complete Cover Group Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman