DRN-4356267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the way that Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a medical 
expenses claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs F are represented by Mrs B. All references to Great Lakes include the actions of 
its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs F were abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, in September 2022, Mrs F became 
seriously unwell and was admitted to a private hospital. So Mr F got in touch with Great 
Lakes medical assistance team to make a medical expenses claim on the policy. Mrs B flew 
abroad to support Mr and Mrs F.
Great Lakes required medical evidence from Mrs Fs GP before it could confirm whether or
not the claim would be covered. This information was received on 3 October 2022 and Great
Lakes agreed to cover the claim. It became clear that Mrs F needed repatriation by air
ambulance, which Great Lakes also agreed to pay for. So the medical assistance team
investigated air ambulance repatriation. However, Great Lakes told Mr F and Mrs B that a
repatriation date couldnt be confirmed until an NHS hospital in the UK had guaranteed that it
would have a bed available for Mrs F.
Unhappy with the delays in arranging repatriation, Mrs B and Mr F organised a private air
ambulance repatriation for Mrs F, which was due to depart on 15 October 2022. But this
flight was cancelled. Great Lakes offered to arrange a further air ambulance for Mrs F, but
ultimately, Mrs B and Mr F paid for Mrs F to be repatriated privately on 23 October 2022.
Mr and Mrs F (and Mrs B) were very unhappy with Great Lakes handling of the claim. The
treating hospital had requested a guarantee of payment (GOP) from Great Lakes, which the
assistance team had repeatedly told Mr F and Mrs B would be forthcoming/had been sent.
However, this hadnt been the case and the treating hospital had required Mr F to pay a 
deposit of several thousand pounds. They were unhappy with the lack of progress and
updates from Great Lakes and that promised communications hadnt been made. They felt
Great Lakes had unreasonably delayed Mrs Fs repatriation. And they said that Mr F had
had to sleep on a sofa in Mrs Fs hospital room for the entire period. Mrs B said Great Lakes
handling of the claim had had a real impact of Mr and Mrs Fs wellbeing.
Whilst Great Lakes accepted it hadnt handled the claim as well as it could have done, it
maintained that it wasnt in a position to arrange air ambulance repatriation until an NHS
hospital had confirmed it had a bed available for Mrs F. And it said a GOP wouldnt generally
be sent until a patient had been discharged from hospital and a final bill had been issued by
a hospital.
Remaining unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mrs B asked us to look into Mr and Mrs Fs
complaint. Additionally, she was unhappy that Great Lakes had provided Mr and Mrs F with
details of the wrong claims handling company, which had led to them sending their personal
information to a claims handler which wasnt authorised to see it.
Our investigator thought that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation of £2500.
This was to represent the impact caused to them by Great Lakes failure to update Mr F and
Mrs B and its failure to respond to calls or emails; its delay in issuing the GOP and its failure
to arrange and pay for hotel accommodation for Mr F while Mrs F was in hospital. She
considered that these failings had led to Mr and Mrs F feeling unsupported and had caused
them additional distress and inconvenience at an already very difficult time.
Great Lakes didnt agree to pay Mr and Mrs F £2500 compensation. It said Mr F had been
told he could arrange hotel accommodation and claim back the costs early on in the claim.
And it provided a recording of a call between Mrs B and one of its team on 7 October 2022.
During the call, the call handler had confirmed to Mrs B that Great Lakes had agreed to
arrange and pay for hotel accommodation for Mr F. Great Lakes did offer to pay Mr and Mrs
F compensation of £1500.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept the compensation Great Lakes had offered.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 September 2023, which explained the reasons why I felt 
Great Lakes offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs F and Mrs B that while Ive summarised the 
background to this complaint and Mrs Bs submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all 
thats been said and sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each 
point thats been raised and nor do our rules require me to in. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
think are the main issues.
Secondly, its clear that Mr and Mrs F went through a very difficult time and I dont doubt how
upsetting and painful this situation must have been for both them and for their family. I was
sorry to read about Mrs Fs illness and painful injury and I do hope shes now recovering
well.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. Great
Lakes accepts that it didnt handle this claim as well as it should have done and its now 
offered to pay a substantial award of compensation to reflect this. Mrs B doesnt think this
offer is fair and reasonable to recognise the impact of Great Lakes claims handling on Mr
and Mrs F. Ive considered this very carefully and Ill deal with each key issue in turn.
Repatriation
Mrs B considers that Great Lakes unreasonably delayed arranging air ambulance
repatriation for Mrs F, which caused Mr and Mrs F unnecessary upset. Generally, I think its
fair and reasonable for an insurer to establish whether or not a claim is covered before
agreeing to pay for medical or repatriation expenses. In this case, given the nature of Mrs
Fs initial reported illness, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to require a copy of her
medical records from her GP before it confirmed it would cover her medical costs. These
records werent received until 3 October 2022, at which point, Great Lakes accepted the
claim.
However, as Mrs F had a spinal injury, Great Lakes needed to establish whether she could
be repatriated safely. While the treating hospital provided a fit to fly certificate, Great Lakes
medical team asked for further images of Mrs Fs injuries to confirm that air ambulance
repatriation could be carried out safely. Once it received the information it had asked for andthe costs had been agreed, I think Great Lakes notes show that took prompt steps to
arrange an air ambulance for Mrs F. And based on the medical information, I think it was
appropriate for Great Lakes to agree to cover the costs of an air ambulance for Mrs F.
I can understand why Mrs F and her family wanted her to be flown back to the UK as soon
as possible. But Great Lakes says it needed to ensure that Mrs F would be able to be
admitted to a bed in an NHS hospital before a repatriation flight could be confirmed. Its
provided me with a statement from the assistance companys Medical Director which
explains that its process is to ensure an NHS bed has been arranged prior to air ambulance
repatriation. In this case, the Medical Director said that due to the nature of Mrs Fs medical
conditions and her injury, she required urgent review and admission to a side room in a high-
dependency NHS unit. I find this evidence persuasive. Unfortunately, the assistance team
cant provide me with evidence of any contact it made with NHS hospitals during this time.
But Great Lakes records do indicate that proactive steps to arrange Mrs Fs repatriation
were being taken.
On that basis, I dont think theres enough information for me to reasonably conclude that
Great Lakes unfairly delayed in arranging Mrs Fs repatriation. I think it did take appropriate
steps to ensure Mrs F could be repatriated safely and I think it was reasonable for Great
Lakes to want to be satisfied that Mrs F would be admitted to a hospital unit which could
provide the right care for her.
Accommodation
It seems to be agreed that Mr F slept on a sofa in Mrs Fs hospital room during the period of
her admission. I dont doubt that this caused Mr F additional discomfort. Our investigator felt
Great Lakes had failed to make it clear to Mr F that hotel accommodation for him would be
covered under the medical expenses section of the policy.
However, I disagree. Great Lakes records show that on 28 September, one of its call
handlers told Mrs B that once cover was in place, it could assist with hotel accommodation
for Mr F. Great Lakes suggested that Mr F should arrange a hotel and then claim back the
costs. It might have been helpful if Great Lakes had offered to arrange accommodation for
Mr F. But given it was still waiting for information to show whether or not the claim was
covered; I wouldnt have reasonably expected it to agree to pay hotel costs at this point. 
And even if Great Lakes had offered to arrange hotel accommodation for Mr F on 28
September, I dont think its more likely than not that he wouldve taken up such an option. I
say that because Ive listened to a call between Mrs B and Great Lakes on 7 October 2022.
During the call, Mrs B told the call handler that Mr F was sleeping on a sofa in the hospital.
The call handler informed Mrs B that cover had been confirmed for hotel accommodation for
Mr F and that this could be arranged. Mrs B stated that this might be best for Mr Fs welfare,
but potentially not for Mrs Fs. She agreed to speak to Mr F about next steps. Theres no
evidence that Mrs B or Mr F asked Great Lakes to go on to arrange or pay for hotel
accommodation and therefore, it seems likely that Mr F understandably chose to remain at
the hospital with Mrs F. In my view then, I think Great Lakes did make clear enough the
option for Mr F to stay at a hotel at its cost and that Mr F decided not to take up this option. I
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to pay compensation to
reflect such a decision though.
The GOP
Both Mrs Bs testimony and Great Lakes claims handling notes show that there were
protracted delays in a GOP being issued to the treating hospital. While Great Lakes went on
to suggest that a GOP wouldnt usually be sent until after a patient had been discharged; thisdoesnt appear to be reflected in the notes. It isnt at all clear to me that a GOP couldnt have
been issued once cover had been confirmed. What is clear is that Mrs B and Mr F
repeatedly asked Great Lakes to send the hospital a GOP and that the hospital itself chased
this information on a daily basis. Great Lakes told Mrs B and Mr F that a GOP had already
been issued on a number of occasions, even though the hospital denied it. Based on the
lack of a GOP, the hospital took payment directly from Mr F.
I dont doubt how much additional, unnecessary stress this caused Mr and Mrs F and Mrs B,
at an already very worrying time. Mr and Mrs F were clearly concerned about the
affordability of the treatment and they say they were being chased-up by the hospital too.
While Great Lakes isnt responsible for the hospitals decision to take payment from Mr F, it
does seem to me that at least some of this stress could have been mitigated if it had
promptly issued a GOP once cover was confirmed.
Customer service
Great Lakes accepts there were failings in its communications with Mr and Mrs F and Mrs B.
I can see that most contact was driven by Mr F and Mrs B. Great Lakes doesnt appear to
have been proactive in updating or contacting them and there were times when it failed to
provide promised call backs or emails. I can entirely understand why Mr F, Mrs F and Mrs B
felt unsupported by Great Lakes during this period and why the relationship effectively broke
down. In my view, had Great Lakes kept Mr F and Mrs B updated about the status of the
claim and been more proactive in its dealings with them, Mr and Mrs F are unlikely to have
felt effectively abandoned. Again, I dont doubt that this caused them unnecessary distress
at an already stressful time for them.
So in the round, I think its appropriate and fair that Great Lakes should compensate Mr and
Mrs F for the impact I think its failings likely had on them. With that said, while Mrs B has
referred to a long-term impact on Mr and Mrs Fs wellbeing, I havent seen any medical
evidence which shows that their health has been adversely impacted as a result of the way
Great Lakes handled the claim. I also need to bear in mind that £1500 is a substantial award
of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused during Mrs Fs broadly four-week
hospital admission. In the circumstances of this complaint, I currently think £1500 is a fair
and reasonable sum to compensate Mr and Mrs F for Great Lakes service failings. So Im
intending to direct Great Lakes to pay this award.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs F strongly disagreed with my proposed award and Ive summarised their detailed 
response below:
While they could not establish a causal link between impact of Great Lakes actions 
on their health, Mr and Mrs F are certain that their wellbeing has been affected by the 
cruel, dismissive and disrespectful way that they were treated by Great Lakes;
They queried whether I had listened to all of the calls between Mr F, Mrs B and Great 
Lakes  including calls where call backs were promised, but not received, or where 
Great Lakes suggested moving Mrs F to a public hospital;
Mr and Mrs F asked why Great Lakes would want to move a patient with pneumonia 
and agonising back pain to a public hospital. And they questioned whether the 
reason for the delay in the issue of the GOP was to try to cause Mr F to move Mrs F 
to a free hospital;As the GOP hadnt been issued for 11 days, Mr F had had to access money from one 
current account and he began to run out of money quickly. Hed also incurred 
exchange fees and daily living expenses. The GOP should have been issued far 
more promptly than it was;
The hospital staff had treated Mr and Mrs F in an aggressive manner, demanding 
payment. Mr F had made Great Lakes aware of this, but it hadnt made a difference. 
This had caused Mr F additional distress;
Great Lakes had provided the hospital with untrue information, stating more than 
once that the GOP had been forwarded. When Mr and Mrs F learned this wasnt true, 
theyd been more let down;
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with my findings regarding the proposed repatriation. They 
felt Id ignored Mrs B and the GPs evidence that guaranteeing a bed was impossible. 
They considered Great Lakes had placed an insurmountable barrier to Mrs Fs 
repatriation, but I had painted a picture of a company focused on customer care. 
They questioned what any reasonable person would have done in dealing with Great 
Lakes intransigence in their situation and when Mrs F had been desperate to get 
home;
Given Great Lakes couldnt provide a record of its attempts to contact UK NHS 
hospitals at the time; Mr and Mrs F said they seriously questioned my decision to 
support Great Lakes;
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree that £1500 was fair and reasonable compensation. They 
said they were around £13,000 out of pocket for the air ambulance, following Great 
Lakes assessment of its liability. There had been issues with the private air 
ambulance provider which wouldnt have occurred had Great Lakes fulfilled its 
responsibilities;
They said that going into a hotel had never been an option, as Mr F was running low 
on funds and they couldnt trust Great Lakes to cover the costs. They hadnt believed 
Great Lakes when it said it would pay for a hotel for Mr F. This had followed a lack of 
contact from Great Lakes and failure to call him and Mrs B back on a number of 
occasions. Mr and Mrs F questioned whether this was a calculated policy by Great 
Lakes to increase Mr Fs stress and impair his decision-making;
In staying the hospital with Mrs F, Mr F had been supporting her through the night 
and had got very little sleep. Some time in a hotel with food would have been of 
benefit to them both in the longer term;
Mrs F is not recovering well. She is in constant pain and distress and had needed to 
get away from the hospital as soon as possible. This hadnt happened due to Great 
Lakes.
They didnt agree with my description of the relationship between them and Great 
Lakes effectively breaking down. They felt this implied mutual blame. Theyd been 
willing to engage in dialogue from the start. They felt Id taken no account of the 
evidence which proved this to be true;
Prior to the claim, Mr F had been used to handling stress. Now his sleep is constantly 
disturbed, he has no confidence and he avoids social interaction with anyone other 
than his close family and friends;
Mr and Mrs F felt we had a duty of care to those who find themselves in distress 
abroad and rely on their travel insurers for support. They said they hoped I would find 
the courage to stand up to Great Lakes for the benefit of others and rid the 
profession of the tactics it used to save money. It was time for our organisation to do 
the right thing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, I still think Great Lakes has 
made a fair offer of compensation and Ill explain why.
Im very grateful to Mr and Mrs F for their detailed response to my provisional decision. Im 
very sorry to hear that Mrs F remains unwell and I do appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs F 
feel about my findings. As I explained in my provisional decision though, our rules dont 
require me to address each point theyve made and so again, Ill focus on what I believe are 
the key issues. Id also like to reassure Mr and Mrs F that Ive carefully considered all of the 
evidence and arguments which have been provided to me.
First, I must make it clear that I wont be considering the settlement of Mr and Mrs Fs claim 
as part of this decision. Mr and Mrs F have referred to the settlement they were paid for the 
private air ambulance and Great Lakes refusal to cover some of the costs they claimed for. 
A complaint about the way the claim has been settled is being considered separately by one 
of our investigators. Therefore, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment further on these 
particular points.
It's also important that I make clear our role. Were not the industry regulator. We have no 
power to direct a financial business to change its policies or processes. Nor do we have the 
power to fine or punish a business if we think its done something wrong. We independently 
and impartially consider each complaint thats brought to us on its own individual facts and 
evidence and we wont generally consider hypothetical situations. Instead, as Ive done in 
this case, we consider the specific facts and merits of each complaint to decide whether a 
financial business has done something wrong which it needs to put right. And if we think it 
has, well consider what fair and reasonable redress should be.
Mr and Mrs F have questioned why Great Lakes would suggest moving Mrs F to a public 
hospital, given her condition. The policy says: 
If you require medical treatment during your trip then in the first instance you must make use 
of any reciprocal health agreements between the UKand the country you have travelled 
to.  
In my experience, this isnt an unusual term in travel insurance policies. And the country Mrs 
F was hospitalised in does have a reciprocal health agreement with the UK, in the form of 
EHIC or GHIC cards. So I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
raised the possibility of moving Mrs F to a public hospital. Ultimately though, Great Lakes 
covered Mrs Fs medical costs at the private facility she was treated in.
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that Great Lakes made a number of errors in 
its handling of this claim. Great Lakes accepts that it did so. Great Lakes didnt call Mr F or 
Mrs B back when it said it would and the majority of the communications were led by Mr F or 
Mrs B. I dont doubt this caused Mr F and Mrs F additional, unnecessary upset at an already 
very distressing time for them. This was a clear failing on Great Lakes part. And I accept too 
that this would have led to Mr and Mrs F losing faith and trust in Great Lakes handling of 
their claim. 
It's apparent that Great Lakes did wrongly tell Mr F and Mrs B that the GOP had been issued 
on a number of occasions, when it hadnt. I explained why I felt Great Lakes should have 
issued the GOP much sooner than it did. I appreciate that the delays in sending the GOP 
(and in wrongly telling Mr and Mrs F that it had been sent) put Mr and Mrs F to significant 
stress and worry  especially as Mr F had to initially cover the hospital costs himself. But I 
cant fairly hold Great Lakes responsible for any actions of the treating hospital, either in the way it communicated with Mr and Mrs F, or for its decision to take payment from Mr F. I do 
think it had been told that the claim was covered and Great Lakes would cover the costs.
Im sorry that the reference to an effective breakdown of the relationship between the parties 
in my provisional decision led Mr and Mrs F to think I was attributing mutual blame for the 
situation. This isnt the case. Instead, I intended to refer to Mr and Mrs F understandably 
losing trust in Great Lakes handling of Mrs Fs medical expenses claim and Great Lakes 
failure to communicate with them in a timely and fair way. 
Mr and Mrs F have explained why Mr F opted not to take up hotel accommodation. I 
understand he felt unable to trust that Great Lakes would cover the cost. But it remains the 
case that Great Lakes did explain to Mrs B that it would pay for Mr F to stay in a hotel and 
gave him the option to do so. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to find that Great 
Lakes was responsible for Mr Fs choice not to stay in a hotel  especially given Mrs B didnt 
seem to think such an option would be best for Mrs Fs welfare. 
Turning to the air ambulance repatriation, I can understand why Mr and Mrs F are concerned 
that Great Lakes hasnt been able to show me that it contacted NHS hospitals. I appreciate 
too that they feel Ive ignored their evidence. This isnt the case. I have to make my decision 
based on the available evidence and circumstances. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, the Medical Director set out the process Great Lakes follows when it arranges air 
ambulance repatriation and the reasons for that process. I find this persuasive evidence that 
Great Lakes does require the guarantee of an NHS bed before it will fly a policyholder back 
to the UK. And the evidence indicates that Great Lakes was taking active steps to arrange 
an air ambulance for Mrs F. It seems to me that its more likely than not that this would 
include contacting NHS hospitals to check bed availability. So I still think, on balance, that 
Great Lakes took appropriate and reasonable steps to repatriate Mrs F to the UK in line with 
its procedures.
Im very sorry to hear about the impact Mr and Mrs F say this situation has had on their well-
being. I must be mindful though that given Mrs Fs illness and injury, this situation would 
always have been very upsetting for them and for Mrs B. Great Lakes isnt responsible for 
Mrs Fs illness or injury and Mrs Fs hospitalisation would inevitably have caused Mr and Mrs 
F and Mrs B distress and worry. And its still the case that while Ive thought carefully about 
what Mr F has told us about the impact on his and Mrs Fs health, theres no medical 
evidence available to show that Great Lakes can fairly be held responsible for this.
It's clear too that Mr and Mrs F are concerned that Great Lakes deliberately delayed things 
and communicated poorly with them in order to cause them additional stress, thereby 
impairing their decision making. Having thoroughly reviewed all of the evidence, I havent 
seen any evidence that this was the case. While Great Lakes didnt handle the claim in the 
way I think it ought to have done, in terms of repeated communication errors and failure to 
issue the GOP sooner than it did, Ive seen nothing to indicate that it deliberately tried to 
cause stress or harm to either Mr or Mrs F. It was progressing the claim and it clearly 
intended to cover Mrs Fs medical costs, even if it did make mistakes. 
Overall, I need to consider what fair, reasonable and proportionate compensation is in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint. I do understand how strongly Mr and Mrs F feel 
about their complaint, but I still find that £1500 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I think its a substantial award to recognise the seriousness of the errors 
Great Lakes made in the handling of this claim and the impact I think these can be fairly 
found to have had on Mr and Mrs F, taking into account the available evidence. So it follows 
that Im directing Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs F compensation of £1500.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Great Lakes has now made a fair offer of settlement.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Mrs F £1500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman