DRN-3467546
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined his 
application for a credit card without giving a valid explanation.   
What happened
Mr D applied to Halifax for a new credit card in January 2022. But his application was 
declined. So, he called Halifax to ask why. Halifax suggested Mr D obtain and review a copy 
of his credit file.
Having obtained his personal credit file, Mr D couldnt see anything that might cause his 
application to be declined. He says the credit reference agency reported the maximum credit 
score available. So, Mr D contacted Halifax again with this information. He thought Halifax 
had mislead him. But Halifax said they couldnt change the decline decision.
Mr D told Halifax he was unhappy with their service and response. Halifax agreed to raise a 
complaint so that it could be investigated further.
Halifax responded to Mr Ds complaint in a letter dated 21 January 2022. They said, when 
assessing Mr Ds application, they use information from credit reference agencies and 
internal information. Halifax werent able to provide an exact reason for the decline and 
apologised for any upset caused. They included details of the credit reference agencies they 
use.
Mr D wasnt happy with Halifaxs response to his complaint. He thought they should explain 
why his application was declined and compensate him for hours of time hed wasted. So, he 
decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Having considered all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt agree 
Halifax had done anything wrong when dealing with Mr Ds application. He didnt think 
Halifax needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators findings. He acknowledged that our investigator had 
suggested Halifaxs decision would have been based upon their own lending policies. And 
they werent obliged to provide details of these. Mr D said this wasnt what Halifax had told 
him. He thought Halifax had changed their policy from when he first spoke to them. He said 
he was still no nearer to understanding why his application was declined.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Lending Code says if an application is declined, an explanation of the main reason why 
should be given, if requested. Halifax records confirm that Mr Ds application was declined 
because it failed their credit assessment. They also suggested Mr D may wish to obtain a 
copy of his credit file from the credit reference agencies.
Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria and guidelines. These may differ from those 
set by other lenders. When assessing an application for credit, Halifax may consider many 
variables. These may be drawn from information provided in Mr Ds application, information 
they already hold about him, existing credit facilities held, and information from credit 
reference agencies.
Its also relevant to say that the credit score calculated by a credit reference agency isnt 
necessarily the same as that calculated by Halifax. Each lender will have their own credit 
score system which considers their own policies and lending appetite and is based upon all 
the information mentioned above.
Halifax said theyre unable to share further details regarding their appetite/lending policies, 
as theyre commercially sensitive. This approach is commonplace. Disclosing such sensitive 
information could give its competitors an advantage or influence how future applicants 
respond to its lending questions.
Halifaxs lending criteria and appetite form part of their own policies and procedures. It isnt 
the role of this service to ask Halifax to alter their policies or procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether Halifax has been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Mr Ds experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also considered any 
relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  where they apply. 
As Ive explained, its not the role of this service to influence Halifaxs own lending policies. 
These are commercial decisions that Halifax are entitled to make. Mr Ds application failed to 
meet their acceptance criteria. And rightly, Halifax directed Mr D to obtain copies of his own 
credit file. Other than his original application, this is the only other information that would be 
readily available to Mr D. So, I cant reasonably say Halifax treated Mr D unfairly or did 
anything wrong by suggesting this. 
Ultimately, no application for credit is guaranteed. And while I appreciate Mr D wants to 
know more specifically why his application was declined, Halifax arent required to provide 
that information. I do appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling here and while I do understand 
hell be disappointed; I cant reasonably conclude that Halifax have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman