DRN-3226391
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finances 
response to a request she made for a refund on some furniture. She says a sofa and chair 
she ordered had issues.
What happened
 In July 2019 Mrs L ordered a sofa and a chair from a company Ill refer to as P. The total 
cost of the furniture was £2,246. Mrs L paid a deposit of £450 and the outstanding balance 
was financed with an interest free fixed sum loan over two years provided by Hitachi.
An initial delivery took place a while later. But, Mrs L said the sofa had oil marks on it. She 
also said the wrong feet were supplied and firmer cushions she paid for werent delivered. 
The cushions were later replaced.
Mrs L says the chair she ordered was also not what she was expecting. She said she 
needed a specific model for a relative to use as she was concerned about safety, and the 
chair that arrived was not what she saw in store and it did not have a high enough back or 
any head support. 
In January 2020 Mrs L complained to Hitachi about the issues. They began to look into 
things for her and communicated with P about the problems.
In February 2020 Mrs L received some replacement feet for the sofa, however she says 
these were still incorrect. Around this time the original chair was collected by P and replaced 
with a different model. It appears Mrs L directly paid P £471 for the difference in cost 
between the chair that was originally delivered and what was eventually supplied - and she 
says the original chair wasnt used due to safety concerns.
Hitachi wrote to Mrs L in March 2020 to say it was still investigating her complaint. This 
communication gave Mrs L the referral rights for our service. 
In June 2020 Mrs L repaid the loan in full. She then referred her complaint to our service in 
August 2020.
While we were initially looking into things, in October 2020 Mrs L received what she said 
appeared to be the correct feet for the sofa. But she didnt think this resolved the complaint 
and she wasnt happy P didnt fit these as agreed.
It was then arranged for the feet to be fitted by P, but Mrs L had to cancel the appointment 
for personal reasons. Hitachi offered to give Mrs L a price reduction of £150 once the fitting 
had been done. Mrs L didnt accept this. She said she wanted a full refund and for the goods 
to be collected.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He explained, in summary, that he thought there had 
been a breach of contract and that Mrs L had a right to claim against Hitachi under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). He said he thought Mrs L should be able to 
reject the furniture. He said Hitachi should end the agreement with nothing further to pay, 
collect the goods at no cost to Mrs L, refund a pro rata proportion of the deposit, refund 25% 
of payments made and remove any adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file.
Hitachi and Mrs L both initially agreed with the investigators findings. But, Mrs L later said 
she only wanted to reject the sofa, not the chair. 
While we continued to discuss things with both sides, around Feburary 2021 P came and 
collected all of the furniture  including the chair.
Our investigator then amended the redress he thought Mrs L should be offered. He said 
Hitachi should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the goods at no cost to Mrs L
Refund a pro rata proportion of the deposit
Refund 25% of repayments made
He said Mrs L should only be liable for 75% of her monthly repayments until 1 
December 2020, any amounts shes paid as additional/extra payments that she 
would not have from December 2020 should be refunded
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file
Mrs L also confirmed that P had said it would refund the £471 for the change of the chair 
directly.
Mrs L was unhappy with this. She thought she should get a higher amount back. So, the 
case was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs L and Hitachi a provisional decision on 29 September 2021. This explained I was 
considering upholding the complaint, but was thinking about asking Hitachi to do something 
different to put things right. My findings from this decision were as follows:
Mrs L complains about furniture acquired using a fixed sum loan. Providing and 
administering regulated consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied we can consider Mrs Ls complaint against Hitachi.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. S75 is relevant to this complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances, 
that a borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit 
provider if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The value of goods supplied under the fixed sum loan totalled £2,246. So, Im satisfied this 
falls within the limits for a valid S75 claim. Some of the items listed are under £100, but 
thinking about this they appear to be accessories as part of a furniture package, so this 
doesnt change my opinion. 
Ive also considered whether a valid creditor-debtor-supplier (DCS) link was in place here. I 
can see the loan was taken in Mrs Ls name, and the sales invoice for the furniture is also in 
her name. So, it follows Im satisfied a valid DCS link exists in this case.
Having reviewed the case, it doesnt seem in dispute that Mrs Ls sofa was damaged and 
was supplied with the wrong legs. There is a slight lack of evidence here, but Mrs L has provided photos of the sofa with mismatched feet. I dont think I need to go into much detail 
here as Hitachi hasnt disputed what Mrs L said about this, but for claritys sake Im satisfied 
its most likely the sofa supplied was damaged and had the wrong legs  Im also satisfied 
this is a breach of contract.
Given P has already collected the furniture, and Hitachi, nor Mrs L, have raised any issues 
with this, it seems to me both parties have accepted that the goods are returned and a 
refund is due. But, for the sake of completeness I should confirm that Im satisfied the right 
thing to do here is to allow Mrs L to reject the goods. I say this as it took far too long to get to 
the stage of a repair being done. I have considered that Mrs L cancelled an appointment to 
have things put right, but Im satisfied that at that point things already hadnt been done in a 
reasonable amount of time. And Mrs L had already complained. 
So, what I now need to consider is what amount would be fair and reasonable to put things 
right. Ive thought about what our investigator said about this. But, I think theres a simpler 
way of working out what to do here.
I think its fair and reasonable that Mrs L should pay something towards the use of the 
goods, as she had the furniture from around September 2019 to February 2021 - a period of 
around one year five months. But I do still need to consider that the sofa wasnt up to the 
standard Mrs L expected. And Mrs L says she didnt use the original chair.
When considering what would be fair for Mrs L to pay towards the use of the furniture, Ive 
thought about the amount of time she couldve reasonably expected the furniture to last and 
therefore how much use she wouldve had if nothing had gone wrong. I can see on some of 
the system notes from Hitachi that P told it furniture came with a 20 year structural 
guarantee. So, it seems reasonable to assume Mrs L wouldve had around 20 years use out 
of the sofa and chair.
Mrs L had the furniture for around 17 months. This is around 7% of the time I wouldve 
expected it to last. If the furniture was exactly as expected, it would seem reasonable to me 
for her to pay 7% of the total cost for its usage. But, as Ive explained earlier, the sofa did 
have some issues. And while it isnt totally clear what went wrong with the delivery of the first 
chair, Mrs L does say she didnt use this until it was replaced. 
Thinking about things in the round, I think a slightly reduced rate of 5% is fair. So, of the total 
cost of £2,246, this means I think its fair Hitachi should retain £112.30. Everything else 
should be reimbursed to Mrs L.
I have thought about the additional £471 Mrs L paid to swap her chair. It appears a separate 
agreement has been reached with P for the reimbursement of this amount. So, no further 
action needs to be taken here. But, if this hasnt yet been received I would suggest Mrs L 
confirms this agreement still stands with P before I issue my final decision.
I gave both parties one month to respond with any further comments or evidence. Hitachi 
didnt reply. Mrs L got in touch and confirmed she accepted the provisional decision and said 
the £471 had been returned to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think this complaint should be upheld. This is for the same reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision and set out above. As Mrs L has confirmed the £471 has been paid to her, Im happy what I recommended to 
put things right in my provisional decision is still fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance to put things right by doing the following:
Refund Mrs L the deposit of £450* **
Refund Mrs L all repayments made under the agreement * **
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file
*These amounts should have 8% simple annual interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Hitachi considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should
also give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
** Hitachi can retain the total of £112.30 from these refunds
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman