DRN-2955072
The complaint
Ms R complains about the advice she received from Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) to 
transfer the benefits from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Personal Pension 
Policy (PPP). And to make regular contributions to the PPP rather than join her new 
employers OPS. Ms R says that she has lost out financially as a result and that the 
payments made as part of the industry wide Pension Review in 1998 and 2001 were 
insufficient to properly compensate her for her loss. Ms R also complains that Zurich 
continued to receive Protected Rights (PR) payments into her PPP when these shouldve 
stopped. Ms R also complains that the original PPP was mis-sold.
When the PPP was taken out, it was under another providers name. But Ill only refer to 
Zurich in my decision.
What we can and cant look at
As our investigator stated, we can only look at complaints that are brought to us in time. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out the rules in regard to what complaints we can 
consider. The rules include the time limits for when a complaint can be brought to our 
service. A customer has six months from the business sending its final response to refer 
their complaint to us. 
PR payments 
Ms R raised a complaint about Zurich continuing to receive PR payments. She said they 
shouldve stopped. 
Zurich sent Ms R their final response to her complaint about PR payments on 18 January 
2019. That letter provided referral rights to our service and said that she must refer the 
complaint within six months of the date of the letter.
I can see that Ms R followed up with a further complaint letter to Zurich on 6 May 2019. 
Zurich responded on 15 May 2019 and said if she was unhappy with the response,
she could refer her complaint to our service, but she must do so within six months of the
date of the previous letter.
I understand this will be disappointing, but Ms R needed to have referred her complaint 
about PR to our service by mid-July 2019 at the latest for us to have been able to consider it.
Unfortunately, she contacted our service on 10 January 2020, which is outside of the
six-month time limit. So, I cant consider the complaint points covered by the final response 
letter dated 18 January 2019.
Ms R raised a complaint about the Pension Review that looked at the advice shed been 
given to make regular contributions to the PPP rather than join her new employers OPS. 
That review was completed in September 2000. Ms R accepted the offered compensation in 
July 2001.
2000 Pension Review
Zurich also sent a final response letter to Ms Rs complaint on 2 February 2001 giving 
referral rights to the PIA Ombudsman (now this service) and confirmed she had six months 
to refer her complaint. They issued a further letter on 16 February 2001 which said;
Of course, if you are still unable to accept our offer then you should take you complaint to
the PIA Ombudsman, as outlined earlier. Please remember that you must contact the
Ombudsman before 2 August 2001.
Zurich confirmed that they wouldnt consent to this service considering Ms Rs concerns 
about the 2000 Pension Review because shed raised a complaint in 2001 on that issue and 
didnt refer it our service in time.
So, I cant consider the complaint points covered by the letter dated 2 February 2001 
because the complaint has been brought to us out of time.
However, Zurich responded to Ms Rs complaint about the suitability of the advice she 
received to take out the PPP in their final response letter of 2 August 2019. So I am able to 
consider the merits of that part of the complaint because it was brought to us within six 
months of the relevant final response letter. And I can also still consider the complaint raised 
about the Pension Review that took place in 1998, relating to the advice Ms R was given to 
contribute to the PPP rather than join her new employers OPS. 
I appreciate that Ms R will be disappointed that Im confirming what our investigator said we 
couldnt look at. 
 
What happened
In early 1989 Ms R was advised to transfer her OPS to a PPP with Zurich. She was also 
advised to make regular contributions to the PPP rather than join her new employers OPS. 
On 1 February 1989, Ms R began to contribute £66.67 each month into the PPP. But after a 
few months she began a research studentship and became ineligible to continue to 
contribute. Zurich wrote to her on 26 June 1990 to confirm that contributions into the PPP 
would stop.
In September 1995 Zurich contacted Ms R as part of the Pension Review.
On 27 March 1996 Ms R wrote to Zurich and raised a complaint about the potential mis-sale 
of her PPP. She was concerned that the charges on the PPP would erode the value of her 
contributions. And questioned the advice shed been given to open the PPP. She asked for 
Zurichs help in investigating her issues.
On 24 March 1998 Ms R complained again to Zurich about the potential mis-sale of her 
PPP, after receiving a letter from them in February 1998 regarding the Pension Review. 
On 18 August 1998 Zurich wrote to Ms R to confirm that theyd finished the Pension Review 
relating to her not joining her new employers OPS. They said the advice had been 
unsuitable at the time and offered redress. On 26 August 1998 Ms R asked Zurich some 
questions about the redress calculations. Zurich provided their answer on 17 September 
1998. Ms R signed the acceptance for redress on 28 September 1998. On 30 November 
1998, Zurich confirmed that £1,485.26 had been credited to her PPP in respect of this part of 
the Pension Review. And said they would now look at the transfer of the benefits from her 
OPS into the PPP.
On 20 September 2000 Zurich contacted Ms R to confirm that theyd completed the review 
of the transfer from her OPS to the PPP. They said that the advice had been unsuitable at the time and offered redress. On 2 February 2001 Zurich wrote to Ms R about the outcome 
of that review. That letter included referral rights to this service if she was unhappy. I 
understand that there was then a communication exchange between Ms R and Zurich about 
the review. But on 26 July 2001, Ms R accepted the redress. She noted some reservations 
about the way the review had been conducted on the same date. Zurich responded to her 
complaint on 15 August 2001. They noted that £4,193 had been credited into her PPP on 1 
February 2001 in respect of the transfer from her OPS. They explained that future charges 
from the PPP had been taken into account in the Pension Review redress calculations. They 
offered her £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the time and inconvenience Ms R had been 
through during the review. 
On 2 January 2019 Ms R requested details of the charges that had been made on herPPP. 
She felt that the redress paid in 1998 and 2001 didnt compensate her for the future charges 
she would pay. Zurich sent her their final response on 18 January 2019. They didnt uphold 
her complaint. But gave her referral rights to this service.
Ms R sent a follow up to her 2 January 2019 complaint on 6 May 2019. Zurich responded to 
that letter, covering most of Ms Rs queries. But they passed her complaint about the sale of 
her PPP to their technical department. Over the next two months, Zurich sent Ms R letters 
stating they werent yet able to give her a final answer to her complaint about the sale of her 
PPP. But on 2 August 2019, Zurich provided their final response to Ms Rs mis-sale 
complaint. They didnt uphold it. They said that the advice to start the PPP in favour of 
joining her new employers OPS had been reviewed and the appropriate redress had been 
accepted. And confirmed that the compensation paid in the 1998 Pension Review had fully 
considered the charges already applied and any future charges that would be applied. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Ms R brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator initially upheld the complaint in her first view. She felt shed seen no evidence to 
show that future charges had been accounted for in the redress calculations from 1998 and 
2000. 
Zurich didnt agree. They reviewed the 1998 calculations. And provided evidence that theyd 
been done correctly. And that theyd accounted for future charges. Zurich declined to review 
the 2000 calculations. They said that was the subject of a complaint in 2001. And was 
therefore outside of this services jurisdiction. 
Our investigator issued a second view, taking account of the new information from Zurich. 
She didnt uphold the complaint about the 1998 Pension Review. And agreed with Zurich 
that the 2000 Pension Review was out of this services jurisdiction.  
Ms R disagreed with our investigator. She said that Zurich hadnt addressed her complaint 
that the PPP itself had been originally mis-sold. She felt she was worse off despite the 
Pension Review redress. And she didnt understand why Zurich had accepted PR payments 
from 2010. Ms R asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint holistically. She also 
wanted the 2001 redress calculations checked. 
So this complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, I can consider the merits of two parts of Ms Rs complaint:The suitability of the advice to take out the PPP, and
The adequacy of the Pension Review that took place in 1998, relating to the advice 
Ms R was given to opt out of her new employers OPS and contribute instead to the 
PPP. 
I note that Ms R believes that Zurich have said its too late to look at the overall mis-selling of 
the PPP. But I can confirm that Zurich have given this service permission to look at that part 
of the complaint. 
Im sympathetic to Ms Rs position and Ive carefully considered the points shes made. And 
all of the information she has provided. But having done so, Im not going to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Suitability of original PPP
Ms R has asked this service to look at the overall suitability of the advice she received to set 
up her PPP initially. She said that shed told the Zurich adviser who set up her PPP that she 
was potentially going to go back to full-time education. She said she later found out that she 
shouldve been told that she wouldnt be able to contribute to the PPP during full-time 
education. She therefore feels she shouldnt have been advised to start the PPP. 
In her 24 March 1998 letter to Zurich, Ms R said: I was told that the scheme could be put on 
hold during education. The implications of the front-loading of administration charges on the 
small sum of money which I would be able to build up before having to stop contributions 
was never made clear. So Ms R thinks that the charges on her PPP need to be 
investigated. She considers there was a lack of transparency about the level of charges she 
would pay on the PPP.
In their 2 August 2019 letter, Zurich said: When the PPP started you were given 
documentation outlining the nature of the plan and the way it works, including details about 
the applicable charges and that they continue to be taken even if contributions stop.
Zurich have shared information they said Ms R was provided with at the time she started the 
PPP. The PPP Product Particulars Booklet contains details of the charging structure. It also 
explains that certain charges: will apply regardless of the level of contributions being paid 
(even if contributions have been suspended) and regardless of the size of the fund built up 
under the plan. The booklet also explained that a PPP could be set up simply to accept a 
transfer from a previous OPS, or to contract out. And it states that: it is always possible to 
reinstate the plan. So Im persuaded that Ms R was given full details of the charging 
structure at the time the PPP was opened. I can also see that the booklet explained that 
contributions could be started and stopped, but that the PPP could be reinstated when 
needed.
Zurich also said: Due to the time that has elapsed we cannot be certain of what was 
discussed however as mentioned, the plan charges and the implications of stopping 
contributions was outlined in the documentation you received. I recognise you feel the 
implications of paying into the plan for a short time werent explained, however Im satisfied 
that the loss assessment we carried out in relation to you not joining [your new employers 
OPS] took into account all the charges that applied to the plan and were included in the 
redress calculation. Ive checked the information contained in this statement. And I cant find 
any errors in it. 
When Zurich reviewed the 1998 Pension Review calculations after our investigators initial 
view, they confirmed that they credited the excess charges as part of the outcome of the redress calculation. They provided the calculations theyd used at the time which prove this 
to be the case. I also note that Zurichs 18 August 1998 letter containing their 1998 Pension 
Review redress offer states: This means that, as at 1 August 1998, the effective date of the 
calculations), the value of your personal pension will equal the value of the benefits you 
would have held in your employers scheme, had you not left it. So this also shows that the 
1998 Pension Review redress calculation corrected both the impact of opting out of the new 
employers OPS and any mis-sale of the PPP. I am satisfied that this is correct as Ive seen 
the calculations. 
I understand that Ms R will be disappointed with my findings. But Im satisfied that Zurich 
took reasonable steps to correct the mis-sale of the PPP when it carried out the 1998 
Pension Review in relation to the advice to opt out of Ms Rs new employers OPS. I hope 
this decision gives her some closure on this issue, as its clear from the correspondence that 
this has been a concern for her for a very long time. 
Ill now look at whether the 1998 Pension Review covered everything it should have. 
Adequacy of the 1998 Pension Review 
It is not in dispute that the advice Ms R received in 1989 to opt out of her new employers 
OPS and instead contribute to a PPP was unsuitable. The letter sent to Ms R in August 1998 
following the review of that advice, as part of the Pension Review, set out the outcome of 
that review. And showed that she had suffered a loss as a result of the decision to opt out. 
The redress was calculated allowing for the lost OPS benefits, the additional contributions 
Ms R had made to the PPP and an allowance for future charges, amongst other things. 
The review was carried out in accordance with the detailed requirements laid down by the 
Personal Investment Authority.
Ms R said that the redress she received in 1998 wasnt sufficient to put her back in the 
position she would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice she received in 1989. She said: 
It seems clear from this that either the original redress calculations were not fit for purpose 
or the charges subsequently levied by Zurich were excessive and outside the expectations 
of the approved calculation assumptions and I ask that the Ombudsman please review this.
The Pension Review was designed to be a once and for all process which was based on 
what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable 
assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension policy, and where appropriate, 
augmentation policy funds. 
Its very unfortunate that the expected growth rates havent come to fruition, and I have a 
great deal of sympathy with Ms Rs position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the 
Pension Review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a 
business such as Zurich was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also so 
that it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future.
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Ms R that 
the error had been recognised and addressed at that point in time  as Ive said above, 
using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to revisit the 
matter many years later. Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at 
retirement rather than undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still 
acceptable  method of resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an 
augmentation sum. In the methodology businesses were required to use there were a number of assumptions. 
The most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out by reality. The low interest rate environment from 2008/09 onwards resulted in the 
cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, for many people, their pension fund at 
retirement isnt sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits. 
But the position of this service is that, as the Pension Review was designed as a one-off 
process, we wouldnt seek to undo the agreement between Ms R and Zurich  even though 
the pension benefits shell receive may well be lower than expected.
I appreciate that Ms R feels the redress calculation carried out in 1998 mustve been 
incorrect as shes now worse off than she wouldve been if shed joined her employers OPS. 
But as I explained above this service takes the view that the Pension Review was designed 
to be a one-off process so we wouldnt seek to undo the agreement between Ms R and 
Zurich  even though the pension benefits shell receive may well be lower than expected. 
In the absence of anything to show or suggest that the data Zurich relied on when carrying 
out the redress calculation in 1998 was incorrect, I cant reasonably find that the calculation 
was incorrect. 
However, if Ms R thinks that incorrect assumptions were used, or the basis of the calculation 
was faulty for some other reason, its open to her to demonstrate why and, if she deemed it 
necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation.
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, if we were satisfied that Zurich 
had undertaken the calculation in good faith, but that minor errors had been made, we would 
simply require it to rerun the calculation using the correct information, and the same 
methodology and key assumptions (including growth) which existed in 1998. 
I acknowledge that Ms R asked me to look at her complaint holistically. Unfortunately, part of 
her complaint is out of this services jurisdiction. So I havent been able to review all of it.
In closing, Id reiterate that I am sympathetic to Ms Rs position, but for the reasons given I 
cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman