DRN-2203984
The complaint
Ms H complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A didnt automatically renew her annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy. Mapfre is the 
underwriter of  Ms Hs policy. Reference to Mapfre includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Ms H took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with Mapfre in July 2017. The 
policy was renewed in July 2018, after Ms H answered questions about her health and two 
health conditions were excluded. 
On 11 June 2019, Ms H called Mapfre as she couldnt access her policy online and she 
wanted to check her cover, particularly in relation to cover for certain sports. During that call, 
Mapfre told her, incorrectly, that her policy would renew automatically. 
On 16 June 2019, Mapfre sent Ms H a renewal notification letter, which Ill refer to in more 
detail below. Ms H says that she filed the letter in her holiday file, as Mapfre had confirmed 
that the policy would renew automatically. 
In November 2019, Ms H wanted to make a claim against the policy following cancellation of 
her holiday planned for December 2019. Mapfre said that Ms Hs policy had expired on       
21 July 2019, so there wasnt a valid policy in place. 
Ms H wants Mapfre to pay her claim and recognise the emotional stress this has caused. 
She was alarmed to discover that her policy wasnt in place, as shed travelled extensively in 
the summer of 2019.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Ms H unfairly. The investigator said that whilst its understandable that Ms H believed 
that the policy would renew automatically, Mapfre also said that it would send a renewal 
notice and it would explain what action Ms H may need to take. She said that the renewal 
notice required Ms H to get in touch with Mapfre in order to renew the policy and thats what 
Ms H had done in July 2018. The investigator said that its reasonable to say that Ms H 
couldve expected to receive documentation and to have paid the premium. 
Ms H didnt agree with the investigator. She said, in summary:
The investigator hadnt listened to the phone call in question.
She doesnt understand why the investigator had referred to Mapfre.
When she called in 2019, she wanted to double check that her policy would renew 
automatically as she was going on a month-long trip starting 24 July 2020, a family 
member was ill, and she wasnt sure she would go on the trip.
She was told that the policy would renew automatically.
The 2019 renewal notification looked the same as the 2018 renewal notification and 
while she admits that she was at fault in that she did not fully read the letter, she was 
worried about a family member. As the agent she spoke with was very clear about 
the policy renewing automatically, she simply filed the letter.
The renewal letter isnt clear and she didnt see any clear call to action in the opening 
paragraphs.
There were further exchanges between Ms H and the investigator, which I wont set out 
here. Ms H asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says:
Annual multi-trip auto-renewal service
To make sure you have continuous cover under your policy, Virgin Money Travel Insurance 
will aim to automatically renew (auto-renew) your policy when it runs out, unless you tell 
them not to.
Each year Virgin Money Travel Insurance will write to you 21 days before the renewal date 
of your policy, and tell you about any changes to the premium or the policy terms and 
conditions.
If you do not want to auto-renew your policy, just call [].Otherwise they will collect the 
renewal premiums from your credit or debit card.
Virgin Money Travel Insurance can only auto-renew your policy when:
You have told them about any changes to your policy details (including any changes 
in health conditions): and
Your credit or debit details have not changed.
In some cases, Virgin Money Travel Insurance may not be able to automatically renew your 
policy. They will let you know at renewal if this is the case. 
 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre should communicate in a way 
thats clear, fair and not misleading. It also has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and 
fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated her unfairly. I 
say that because:
Its not in dispute that Mapfre told Ms H, incorrectly, that her policy would renew 
automatically. Ive listened to the recording of the call between Ms H and Mapfre in 
June 2019. Ms H said that she couldnt access her policy online and asked questions 
about her cover including questions about cover for a specific sport. On two 
occasions in the call, Mapfre told Ms H that her policy would renew automatically. It 
also said that she would receive a renewal notice 21 days before renewal and if there 
were any issues, she should contact it. I dont think that what Mapfre said in the call is the end of the matter. Following that 
call, Mapfre sent Ms H a renewal letter which was headed Your annual Virgin 
Money Travel Insurance expires on 21 July 2019. The letter went on to say: 
- Please check this level of cover is right for you and then just give us a call 
to renew your cover.
-Call us to stay covered for another year
-Your cover wont start until you call and payment has been received.
I think that it was clear from the renewal letter that Ms H had to take action in order to 
renew the policy. In sending that letter, Mapfre was acting in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy in that it was letting Ms H know that it couldnt renew her 
policy automatically. 
Mapfre couldnt renew Ms Hs policy automatically because she had made medical 
declarations at renewal in 2018 and she was required to do that again in 2019.
Ms H didnt pay the policy premium and didnt receive confirmation of cover. So, there 
was no cover in place. In those circumstances, I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in 
declining Ms Hs claim.
Whilst Mapfre made errors in its phone call with Ms H in June 2019, I think the 
subsequent renewal letter set out clearly what Ms H needed to do in order to renew the 
policy. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms H but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman