DRN-1161884
 
Complaint
Ms N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax placed a stop on a new savings 
account she had opened and as a result she was unable to immediately access the funds in 
the account.
Background
Ms N opened a new savings account with Halifax using online banking. She transferred 
money from her Halifax current account into the new savings account. A few days later she 
tried to transfer money from the savings account but she wasnt able to because the account 
was stopped. She contacted Halifax by telephone to complain about this. As it was a 
Saturday Halifax told her that she would have to contact it the following Monday since the 
department dealing with the issue did not work at weekends. She wanted access to the 
funds to pay for a hire car which she needed for a new job that she was starting on Monday. 
So, she phoned Halifax again. It told her that she would need to go into a branch with 
identification in order to withdraw the money from the savings account. By this stage the 
branch had closed. 
Ms N complained to Halifax about what had happened. She said that she shouldve been 
told to go into a branch on the first occasion when shed phoned. The branch would still have 
been open at that time. As a result she said that she hadnt been able to pay for the hire car 
and she hadnt been able to start her new job until a week later. 
Halifax investigated her complaint. It said that it had stopped the account because Ms N had 
failed its security checks. It also said that the department that had put the stop on the 
account wouldve had to authorise the stop to be lifted. So, the earliest day that couldve 
happened wouldve been the following Monday. It offered her £50 as compensation because 
she had been given conflicting information and £15 for her costs of travelling to a branch.
Ms N remained dissatisfied. She said that she wanted compensation for the weeks wages 
that shed lost and the deposit for the car hire. Halifax didnt agree. It said that Ms N did have 
funds in other accounts that she couldve used to hire the car and in any case she didnt 
close the savings account for a further two weeks. It says that the compensation it offered 
her was fair.
Ms N didnt agree and she referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it. He 
didnt uphold her complaint. He said that Halifax had a right to stop the account where shed 
failed its security checks. He also said that she had a duty to mitigate her losses and she 
couldve used other funds to complete the car hire. Halifax had accepted that it had given 
her conflicting information when she phoned it but our investigator felt the compensation it 
had offered her was fair.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding this 
complaint for mainly the same reasons as our investigator
I can see that Halifax placed a stop on the account because Ms N had failed its security 
checks. These are the checks that it carries out before it will allow an account to be used by 
the account holder. I can see, in the terms and conditions for the account that Halifax says it 
can refuse to act on an instruction because of its internal security controls. Halifax can also 
close an account for the same reason. So, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong when it 
stopped the account. 
Its unfortunate that Ms N needed access to the money in the account at the weekend. I can 
see that Ms N was given conflicting information about how quickly she could access the 
funds. But, Halifaxs department dealing with stops on new accounts didnt work at the 
weekend. Ive thought about that and I dont think its unreasonable for a specialist 
department not to work at weekends. The specialist team wouldve been familiar with the 
security controls and wouldve known what action it required Ms N to take in order for the 
stop on her account to be lifted. So, on balance, and despite the fact that she was given 
conflicting information, Im satisfied that the earliest the stop couldve been lifted was the 
following Monday.
Halifax has acknowledged that Ms N was given conflicting information and has paid her £50 
(together with £15 for travel expenses) by way of compensation. I can understand how 
frustrating it mustve been for Ms N. She was worried about how she would be able to hire 
the car she needed to start her new job. But, as Ive explained above, I dont think Halifax did 
anything wrong when it placed a stop on the account.  I can see that Ms N did have other 
funds, although its not clear if she had enough to cover her car hire costs. But, its also the 
case that she didnt access the funds in the savings account until two weeks later. So, in the 
circumstances, I agree with our investigator that the compensation Halifax has paid Ms N is 
fair and reasonable and I dont expect it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman