DRN-2841876
The complaint
A company, which I'll refer to as R, complains that American Express Payment Services 
Limited (AEPS) acted unfairly in relation to defending a chargeback. 
R is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr L. 
What happened
R is a maker of bespoke, hand made products. In February 2019, R sold one of its products, 
taking a deposit of £5,000. In March 2019, it delivered the item and charged the balance of 
£3,850. 
Rs customer twice returned the item due to water damage. R says it explained that the item 
wasnt waterproof and that it had never been sold as such. But R agreed to fix the item 
nonetheless. The second time, R warned its customer that it might not fix it again. 
In early July, AEPS informed R that Rs customer had asked for a chargeback beacuse the 
item was defective. AEPS therefore reversed the two transactions totalling £8,850, debiting 
them from Rs account. 
R told AEPS on the phone that it would be submitting evidence to show that the chargeback 
shouldnt succeed. Mr L says he then posted this evidence.  
In September, Mr L chased AEPS by email for a response to its appeal. AEPS said they 
hadnt received it. They asked R to send it again. R did so, but AEPS then declined to re-
present it, as they said it was too late. 
In October 2019, R complained. AEPS didnt uphold the complaint, because they said R had 
told them it didnt have written terms and conditions, only verbal ones, and this was 
insufficient evidence to appeal against the chargeback. 
R continued to correspond with AEPS. And in February 2020, AEPS sent a second response 
to Rs complaint. They still didnt uphold it. This time, the letter said R hadnt sent the 
evidence to support its appeal in time. So the debits would remain. They later accepted that 
their first response to the complaint had been incorrect in its reasoning. 
R referred its complaint to our service. I issued a provisional decision on 27th April. I didnt 
uphold the complaint and made the following points, in summary:
My decision concerned only Rs merchant services contract with AEPS and whether 
AEPS has done anything wrong in the provision of those services. R had another 
contract with its customer, but I hadnt seen that and had no powers to look at it 
anyway. 
I considered that the terms and conditions made it clear that AEPS had chargeback 
rights. AEPS therefore didnt breach the contract when it debited Rs account for the 
chargebacks. 
Despite the amount of time that had elapsed, I didnt think AEPS had applied the 
chargebacks unfairly. I said this because it was within 120 days of the actual delivery 
of the goods. And there was no 120 day limit for chargebacks in Rs contract anyway.
I thought Mr L understood what he needed to do to appeal. And as the terms and 
conditions said appeals had to be in writing, I didnt think it was unfair of AEPS not to 
accept Rs phone call as a verbal appeal. 
Mr L didnt dispute that it was his choice to send the appeal by regular post. He did, 
however, argue that AEPS probably received it and either lost it or fraudulently 
denied receiving it. 
Mr L pointed out that AEPS made other errors, including mislaying phone recordings 
and denying receiving a later copy of documents that he had sent by recorded 
delivery. But I didnt consider the other errors were enough for me reasonably to 
conclude that the appeal letter in July was received by AEPS within the deadline. 
R disagreed and made the following points:
I had suggested AEPS had nothing to gain. But in fact, they did  they already had 
one unhappy customer but to have accepted their mistake would have meant 
upsetting a second, the cardholder. 
Had AEPS not bungled a minor dispute, R could still have ended up with a happy 
customer, because of Rs excellent customer service. 
AEPS had let R down in half a dozen ways. It had mistakenly refunded the purchase 
of a non-waterproof item because it got wet, lost mail, promised call-backs that never 
materialised, lost phone recordings and lost the contract. It had also put the wrong 
date on a key document and expected R to reply in days, but taken months to 
respond themselves. 
In over twenty years of operation, R had never had to refund a customer before.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been persuaded to change my provisional view. So Im not going 
to uphold this complaint. 
My conclusion remains that although AEPS made some minor errors and could have 
provided better customer service, they werent contractually obliged to do more. And they did 
act in accordance with the contract. So I dont think it would be fair to say that AEPS acted 
wrongly. 
I know that Mr L believes I was wrong to say AEPS had nothing to gain but I still maintain 
this view. AEPS had no direct dealings with the cardholder, who wasnt AEPSs customer so 
I dont think upsetting them was a factor. 
I also think its relevant to note that AEPS has rules that it is obliged to follow, which are the 
card scheme rules, not its own. These dictate some of the steps in the chargeback process, 
such as the 14 day period. I dont think it was unfair of AEPS to follow these rules. They are 
of course also reflected in Rs own contract with AEPS. 
I do understand that Mr L feels a huge sense of disappointment and frustration about these 
events. I know he feels that R fulfilled its contract perfectly and could still have settled things 
amicably with its customer but for AEPSs intervention. But AEPS had to respond to the 
chargeback request. And I still dont think that what followed after that was AEPS fault. Im 
therefore not going to ask them to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L on behalf of 
R to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman