DRN-3491849
The complaint
Mr N complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited didnt end his hire purchase agreement 
after he asked it to.
What happened
Mr N entered into a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with MotoNovo on 4 July 2019 to 
acquire a car from a dealer Ill refer to as X. He says that as soon as he got into the car 
he noticed there were gear transmission issues with it. He says X told him it would get the 
issues fixed. So, Mr N says he agreed to leave the car with the dealer to give him the 
opportunity to repair it.
Mr N says that after a week when the car still wasnt ready, he told X he wanted to cancel 
the agreement. He says X told him it would arrange to cancel the agreement. In the 
meantime, Mr N made the payments to MotoNovo and X agreed to reimburse the 
payments each month. This continued until March 2020 when Mr N says X failed to 
reimburse the payment thatd been taken from his account.
Mr N says he wasnt able to contact X and it appeared X had ceased trading. So, he 
contacted MotoNovo. He also stopped making payments to MotoNovo after this date.
MotoNovo looked into the matter. It said it couldnt terminate the agreement. The car had 
not been returned to it and its whereabouts were unknown. It told Mr N he should seek legal 
advice. Mr N didnt accept this. He complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo investigated his complaint. It said Mr N had first contacted it eight months after 
the agreement was signed. He hadnt provided any evidence to support his statement that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point when he acquired it. Under the terms of 
the agreement Mr N agreed to keep the car in his possession. He hadnt done that and the 
car couldnt be located. MotoNovo said it wasnt for X to say that the agreement could be 
ended. MotoNovo didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr N was required to make the 
payments as set out in the HPA.
Mr N didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. 
He thought thered been a misrepresentation when Mr N had been told that the car was in 
full working condition and repairs would be done before collection. X had been acting as 
MotoNovos agent when it had made these statements. X had confirmed this information 
was correct and also confirmed that Mr N hadnt taken possession of the car. Our 
investigator also noted that X had been refunding the monthly payments to Mr Ns bank 
account.
In these circumstances he thought MotoNovo should:
End the agreement,
Remove any adverse information it had recorded about Mr Ns account with 
credit reference agencies;
Be permitted to keep the £3,039.16 which Mr N had paid it. The reason for this 
was because X had already reimbursed Mr N for this amount; and
Pay Mr N £200 for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It pointed to the terms of the HPA which stated that the car 
belonged to MotoNovo and Mr N was required to keep it in his possession until all the 
payments were made. MotoNovo said there was no evidence thered been any fault with 
the car and there was no evidence X had made any representations in relation to the 
quality of the car. It said thered been no misrepresentation.
MotoNovo said it had suffered extreme loss because of what had happened. 
Because MotoNovo didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N doesnt agree that he should be liable for making any payments under the 
HPA he entered into. Ive thought about what hes said but, having done so, my 
current view is that his complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why:
Was there a misrepresentation?
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) states that the finance 
provider (in this case MotoNovo) is liable for any representations made by the 
supplier or the broker (in this case X) during negotiations which are conducted 
prior to the agreement having been entered into.
Mr N says there was a misrepresentation prior to the HPA having been entered into. 
He says the dealer told him the car was in full working order and he says that was a 
false statement. Mr N says it was false because the car had a gear transmission 
problem which became evident on the day he went to collect it.
We havent been able to get any testimony from X  because its no longer 
trading. So, Ive thought about what Mr N told us and what happened.
Mr N told us about the actions he took when he went to collect the car. So, Ive 
considered whether those actions support what hes said about there having been 
a misrepresentation.
Mr N initially told us he agreed with X that the car should be repaired. But after a 
week when the car was still not repaired, he says he told X to close and cancel 
the agreement.
Mr N has recently provided us with a document entitled Collection Note stamped 
with Xs details and dated 4 July 2019 (the date of the HPA and the date when he 
says he originally went to collect the car). This is a type written document which 
states as follows:
I (The Buyer) have agreed rejection of this car. The car is not of 
satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and or as described with Faults not 
consummate with the age and mileage of the car.It is signed by Mr N and by a representative of X. This suggests that Mr N decided 
to reject the car on 4 July 2019 and didnt agree that it could be repaired. He hasnt 
explained why he didnt provide this document to our service earlier in the 
investigation. And he hasnt explained the inconsistency that has arisen with what 
hed previously told us.
The car cannot be located. So, in these circumstances its not possible to see if 
there was the fault Mr N has complained about.
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence 
to support what Mr N has told us about a misrepresentation having been made by 
the dealer prior to the point when the HPA was entered into.
Mr N says he rejected the car.
Mr N told us that on 4 July 2019 when he went to collect the car he sat in it and 
then agreed with the dealer that it could be repaired. Hed already signed the HPA 
at this point. Im satisfied, on the basis of what hes told us, that he took delivery of 
the car on 4 July 2019  albeit briefly.
Mr N says he rejected the car. And there are provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) for consumers to be able to reject goods within a certain time period 
where the goods arent of satisfactory quality. To reject goods the consumer needs 
to notify the trader. As the supplier of the goods under the HPA, MotoNovo is the 
trader. Mr N provided a copy of the Collection Note which he and X completed on 4 
July 2019 as evidence he rejected the goods. Ive already commented above about 
the inconsistency between what Mr N initially told us and what appears on the 
Collection Note.
Mr N says he thought the dealer was contacting MotoNovo and the dealer led him to 
believe that was the case. But, once the agreement had been entered into the 
provisions of S56 of the CCA no longer applied. So, I dont think MotoNovo is 
responsible for what the dealer may have said after that point. And, theres nothing 
to indicate that the dealer was acting as MotoNovos agent after the HPA had been 
entered into. In these circumstances, it cannot be held liable for anything said or 
done by X after the HPA was entered into. There was an onus on Mr N to inform 
MotoNovo hed rejected the car  he didnt inform it. So, Im satisfied, on balance, 
MotoNovo was not informed at the time that there were any issues or that Mr N had 
rejected the car.
Ive then thought about whether MotoNovo ought reasonably to have known 
Mr N had rejected the car.
Mr N made payments to MotoNovo for the period from September 2019 to March 
2020. He says he didnt know what the process was and X was reimbursing the 
payments to him every month. So, he says he just thought it would take a period of 
time to get the whole thing unwound.
Ive noted the HPA refers to a deposit of £5000 having been made and a part 
exchange for £17,000 (subject to settlement of existing finance of £13,000). When he 
raised his complaint, Mr N told MotoNovo he didnt pay any deposit and there was no 
part exchange. Hes subsequently told our service he didnt pay the deposit or part 
exchange because the deal did not go through. He also told us that the car he 
intended to part exchange was on finance with another car finance company.Given what hes told us about not proceeding with the deposit and the part 
exchange, it is difficult to understand why he allowed the direct debit instruction to 
be set up with his bank and permitted five payments to be taken from it over an 
eight-month period - especially at a time when he was presumably still making 
payments on the car hed offered by way of part exchange. I dont think he could 
reasonably have believed it would take that length of time to end the agreement.
Under the HPA the first payment was due to be made to MotoNovo two months 
after execution of the agreement. So, the first payment was due to be taken from 
Mr Ns account in September 2019. Ive looked at the payment record provided by 
MotoNovo and I can see that payments were made to the account every month 
starting on 24 September 2019 up until February 2020. The March payment was 
returned unpaid and no payments have been made subsequently.
I can see that payments were being made to Mr Ns bank account from X. The 
payments were around the same amount each month as he was paying to 
MotoNovo. But, despite this, Im not persuaded, on balance that this explains why 
Mr N didnt cancel his direct debit payments to MotoNovo. He didnt cancel the 
direct debit until eight months after the date he says hed rejected the car.
Having looked at the payment record, Im satisfied, on balance that Mr N didnt do 
anything by his words or actions to inform MotoNovo he had rejected the car. In 
these circumstances I dont think MotoNovo has failed to respond fairly to a request 
for rejection.
It is the case that Mr N may still have rights under the CRA. But the onus would be 
on him to show that the car is not of satisfactory quality. He hasnt been able to do 
that because the whereabouts of the car are currently unknown.
Was the car of satisfactory quality at the point of sale?
As mentioned above, Mr N acquired the car through a HPA. Under the relevant 
legislation which applies to car finance agreements, specifically the CRA, MotoNovo 
can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The 
CRA says that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking account of the description of 
the goods, the price paid or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all 
other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and 
mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
When Mr N entered into the HPA the car he acquired was 21 months old. The 
mileage was recorded as 35,000 miles. The purchase price paid was £32,000. The 
HPA also records details about a deposit and part exchange. The total amount of 
credit under the agreement was £23,000. Ive already commented on the deposit 
and part exchange above. According to the information on the HPA, the car was 
still relatively new, although it was reasonable to have expected some wear and 
tear to have occurred.
Mr N told us that on the day he signed the HPA he went to collect the car. He says 
he sat in the car and noticed there was a gearbox transmission fault. Theres no 
evidence to support what Mr N has told us about the gearbox transmission problem 
which he says was present. The whereabouts of the car are currently not known. 
So, theres insufficient evidence to support what Mr N has told us about the car 
being of unsatisfactory quality.I understand Mr N says he returned the car to X. So, he says X is responsible for 
the fact that its gone missing. But, for the reasons outlined above, it doesnt look 
like X was acting as MotoNovos agent after the sale had taken place. So, thats 
not something we can fairly say MotoNovo should be liable for.
Ive considered the information on the Collection Note. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded it provides reliable evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. It 
doesnt set out any details of why the car was of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for 
purpose. It was also a document that wasnt shared with MotoNovo. So, MotoNovo 
had no knowledge of what had purportedly happened.
Having considered everything, Im currently not persuaded, on balance, that 
MotoNovo acted unfairly or unreasonably when it said it couldnt end the HPA. It 
had advanced the funds as set out in the HPA and it hadnt any reason to suspect 
Mr N had rejected the car. Mr N also hasnt been able to provide satisfactory 
evidence to support what he says about the car being of unsatisfactory quality. 
And, MotoNovo isnt able to carry out its own inspection of the car.
I can understand why Mr N will be disappointed with my decision here. But, I have 
to decide whether MotoNovo has acted fairly and reasonably given everything 
thats happened.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided that I do not require MotoNovo to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited.
MotoNovo responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
Our investigator contacted Mr N. He confirmed he had received my provisional decision and 
he strongly disagreed with it. He subsequently sent a response in which he set out the 
following reasons why he disagreed:
Hed rejected the car at the earliest point but the dealer insisted the car would be 
fixed and he agreed to allow him a week to fix it because he wanted the car.
He signed a disclaimer provided by the dealer at the time and he didnt want the 
agreement to be active.
He never had possession of the vehicle. His duty was to return the vehicle to the 
dealership but in this case the vehicle wasnt returned it was left with the dealer.
It was the dealers responsibility to inform MotoNovo hed cancelled the agreement.
The dealer accepted the rejection.
The whereabouts of the vehicle is between the dealer and MotoNovo.
He queried the direct debits being taken from his account. The dealer told him the 
payments would be refunded whilst the agreement was being closed.
The dealer had subsequently pleaded guilty to fraud.
He had acquired another car from the dealer and finance had been arranged. He 
took the car and has been paying the finance ever since.So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. Some of the reasons Mr N has 
given for not accepting my provisional decision are reiterations of points he made previously 
and which Ive already commented on in my decision. Ive nevertheless reviewed my 
provisional decision and taken into account each of the comments hes made. But, having 
done so, I havent changed my view about how this complaint should be resolved. Ill explain 
why - using the same headings as set out in my provisional decision:
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr N hasnt provided any new information which changes what Ive said. 
He says X has provided testimony and its in the disclaimer which was signed at the time. 
When Mr N refers to a disclaimer I think hes referring to the Collection Note. As I said in 
my provisional decision, that document was inconsistent with previous information Mr N 
provided to our service. It also didnt set out what the faults with the car were and because 
the car cannot be located, its not possible to see if there was the fault Mr N complained 
about.
So, Ive no reason to change my view that theres not sufficient evidence to support what Mr 
N told us about a misrepresentation.
Mr N says he rejected the car
Mr N says he notified X hed rejected the car. But, as I said in my provisional decision, 
theres no evidence that X was acting as MotoNovos agent, after the date when the 
agreement was entered into. The onus was on Mr N to notify MotoNovo himself that he was 
rejecting the car and explain to it the reasons why he wanted to do that. He didnt notify 
MotoNovo. 
Mr N continues to rely on the fact that he says he informed X hed rejected the car. Hes not 
provided any new information, and he hasnt commented on what Ive said about why I dont 
think MotoNovo ought reasonably to have known hed rejected the car.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr N says he acquired another car from the 
same dealer by way of finance agreement with another provider. He says this occurred in 
September 2019. He says he still has the car he acquired and that hes still paying the 
finance. Hes provided a statement from the car finance company to support what hes said. 
Mr N says this shows he rejected the car. Id just note, in passing, that the finance 
agreement hes told us about didnt appear on the credit file screenshots which he provided 
to our service in July 2021. 
Ive thought about what Mr Ns said about acquiring a different car in September 2019. But, it 
doesnt change my view here. MotoNovo was not aware about this subsequent transaction 
and as Ive said above, the onus was on Mr N to inform it hed rejected the car.
Ive also thought again about the fact Mr N continued to make the direct debit payments to 
MotoNovo  even after he says he acquired a different vehicle and started to make payments on it. Hes also previously told us he still had the car which hed offered to part 
exchange and was making finance payments on that too, during this period.
I note what hes said about getting refunds each month from X. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont think that explains why he didnt cancel the direct debit until eight 
months after the date he says he rejected the car. He couldve done that by approaching his 
bank or contacting MotoNovo directly. Mr N also didnt appear to challenge X about why the 
direct debits were still being taken even after such a long time  especially when he says he 
was making payments on two other finance agreements hes told us about, at the same 
time. And, it is the case that MotoNovo had no knowledge of the arrangement Mr N says X 
made with him to refund the payments.
So, Ive not changed my view that Mr N didnt do anything by his words or actions to inform 
MotoNovo hed rejected the car.
Was the car of satisfactory quality at the point of sale?
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought there was insufficient evidence to 
support what Mr N told us about the car being of unsatisfactory quality. I commented on the 
Collection Note and also on the fact that the car could not be located. Mr N hasnt provided 
any new information about either of these matters which causes me to change my view.
Having looked at everything again I havent changed my view as set out in my provisional 
decision. I do not require MotoNovo to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about MotoNovo Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman