DRN-3719132
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E (as joint policy holders) complain that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct 
Line Insurance (UKI) unfairly declined to cover repairs to their property as part of an 
insurance claim on a home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs E hold the policy jointly. The majority of the contact with UKI and our service has 
been from Mr E. Where I refer to Mr E within this decision, this should be taken to include 
Mrs E.
Matters relating to the claim have been handled on behalf of UKI by loss adjusters and other 
representatives. Where I refer to UKI within this decision, this includes these representatives
What happened
Mr and Mrs E insure their property with UKI. They made a claim on the policy for damage 
caused by water ingress into the property. UKI accepted cover for the claim and arranged for 
its contractors to carry out repairs to the property.
Mr E contacted UKI several months later to say that a ceiling that had been repaired was 
cracking and showing signs of further water damage. He thought this new damage had 
occurred because of poor quality repairs by the contractors, and so UKI should cover the 
cost of further repairs to rectify this.
UKI declined cover  for the further repairs. It said a surveyor had inspected the area in 
question and concluded that the repairs had been carried out to an appropriate standard. 
The surveyor suggested that the damage noted may have been caused by the defective 
original design or construction of the property. 
Mr E disputed this and complained to UKI. When it rejected his complaint, he referred it to 
our service. Our investigator thought UKI had acted fairly and reached a reasonable 
conclusion. Mr E didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations here is that UKI was liable for a lasting and effective 
repair. Mr Es position is that the repairs werent lasting and effective as damage reoccurred 
within months of the original works.
Theres no dispute that areas of the ceiling which was repaired have suffered further 
cracking. I can see that on being told this, UKI arranged for a surveyor to attend the property 
who provided a report to UKI detailing their enquiries and conclusions. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to conclude that the fact that cracks have appeared in the ceiling means 
that the original repair works were inadequate. There needs to be evidence linking the 
cracks to the original repairs.
The report said that the original works had entailed extensive repairs to the ceiling in 
question and acknowledged that widespread, and additional, areas of the ceiling had cracks 
beyond the original area repaired. The report was unable to give a definitive conclusion on 
the cause of the new cracks but did indicate that inadequate repairs, or poor workmanship in 
the original repairs, were not a factor. 
The surveyor did say the cracks were potentially caused by undersized joists, but that these 
werent part of the original repairs and may be indicative of an inherent design or 
construction fault. The surveyor said further, invasive enquiries would be required to 
ascertain whether this was the case.
UKIs declined to carry out these further enquiries. It says it would be liable for the costs 
incurred in carrying these out and matters related to original (ie pre-loss) design or 
construction flaws arent covered by the policy. The enquiries proposed would be test that 
theory  not ascertain a definitive cause of the damage. It says the report identifies no cause 
for the damage, or which could be causing the damage, which is covered by the policy.
UKIs also said it will look at this further if alternative evidence can be provided, for example 
by way of reports or other enquiries, carried out on behalf of Mr and Mrs E which indicate a 
potential cause of the damage which is covered by the policy. To date, such evidence hasnt 
been provided. All I have available to me are photos and Mr Es opinion that the cracks are 
related to the previous repairs.
It's also been suggested that the cracks may have reoccurred because the property hadnt 
been properly dried before the works were carried out. However, UKIs provided a copy of 
the drying certificate which was issued, confirming the property was sufficiently dry before 
the repairs commenced. I know Mr E doesnt agree this was accurate, but Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the property wasnt sufficiently dry before the original works started.
What I have available to me is the drying certificate and the surveyors report. In 
combination, these suggest the property was in the proper state to be repaired, that 
extensive and adequate works were carried out, and that the cause of the further damage is 
unconfirmed, but with nothing to link it to the original works. Im not in a position to dispute 
the contents of this evidence, as nothing from a similarly qualified professional or expert has 
been provided to refute them. 
I think its fair for UKI to rely on this evidence when it concluded the damage to the ceilings 
wasnt something which the policy provided cover for, and wasnt related to the previous 
repairs. Its also acted fairly by saying it will look at the matter again if further evidence is 
provided. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman