DRN-2863598
The complaint
Miss F complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her. 
What happened
Miss F was provided with two loans by Lending Stream the details are set out below.
Loan Amount Date
1 £330 16/01/2018
2 £220 07/03/2018
Miss F says that the lending was unaffordable.
Lending Stream says that before the loans were provided it asked Miss F if she was working 
and confirmed her monthly income. It says it gathered information about Miss Fs monthly 
expenses, checked the information provided against external data sources and made any 
required adjustments. It also asked about Miss Fs other credit commitments and checked 
these against information from a credit reference agency. Lending Stream says based on its 
checks the loans were affordable for Miss F.
Our adjudicator confirmed that Miss Fs complaint was about the affordability of the loan. 
Based on this she didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Miss F for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. She also didnt think there was anything in the 
information Miss F provided or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, 
which meant further verification was required.
Miss F didnt accept our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about whether Lending Stream was irresponsible in its lending to Miss F. 
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
Miss Fs first loan was for £330 and was repayable over six monthly instalments. The highest 
monthly instalment was around £140. Before the loan was provided Miss F declared a 
monthly income of £950. Miss Fs application didnt include an amount for her monthly 
expenditure but based on the external data checks Lending Stream included an amount of 
£448. As this was Miss Fs first loan, I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. As 
these didnt suggest the loan was unaffordable, I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
Miss F took out a second loan in early March 2018. At this time loan 1 was still outstanding. 
While this could have been a concern, given the timing, I do not find I can say that at this 
stage Lending Stream should have been reasonably aware that lending to Miss F was 
unsustainable. Loan 2 was for £220 with the highest monthly repayment amount being just 
under £100. 
Before the loan was provided Lending Stream says it verified Miss Fs income which had 
increased to £1,840. Miss F declared monthly expenses of £900 which included £125 for 
other credit commitments. 
While I understand the points Miss F has raised, having considered the size of the 
repayments under her loans compared to her monthly income and noting she was only 
provided with two loans by Lending Stream, I find the checks carried out before the loans were provided were reasonable. As these suggested the loans were affordable I do not find I 
have enough to say this complaint should be upheld.
If Miss F still has an outstanding balance with Lending Stream, it should treat her positively 
and sympathetically in regard to this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman