DRN-1690334
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with a third 
party claim on his car insurance.
Mr C is being represented in his complaint. For ease, references to Mr C may include the 
actions, comments etc. of his representative. Similarly, references to Admiral include any 
agents acting on its behalf.  
What happened
Around June 2019, Mr C was involved in a car accident. He notified his car insurance 
provider, Admiral, reporting that a third party had braked, and hed collided with the rear of 
their car at low speed. He said that two adult men and two children had been in the third 
partys car  and provided photographs from the scene. Mr C didnt raise a claim, but the 
third party did. He says he admitted liability, and Admiral explained that the third partys 
claim would be reported as a fault claim. 
Several months later, Mr C discovered that Admiral had settled an injury claim for an adult 
female passenger. This contradicted what hed told it about who was in the third partys car 
at the time of the accident. Mr C was unhappy that Admiral had settled this part of the claim 
without investigating further. He said the accident could have been induced by the third party 
braking. He also said the children in the rear seat werent wearing seat belts, so a 25% 
deduction should be made for their injury claims.
Admiral admitted that it should have investigated further before settling the claim for the 
womans injuries. But it said the photographs from the scene didnt clearly identify the age or 
sex of all the occupants of the car. So it stood by the settlement. It also clarified that only one 
claim had been made for injuries to a child  and it hadnt agreed to settle this. Admiral 
offered £150 compensation.
Unhappy with Admirals response, Mr C referred the matter to our service. He said the 
compensation had been sent to his representative rather than him. He thought he should get 
£500 compensation, and that his No Claims Discount should be reinstated. Our investigator 
ultimately concluded that it was reasonable for Admiral to settle the claim as it did. She didnt 
think the photographs were conclusive, so thought it reasonable for Admiral to accept the 
claim based on the medical evidence. She also noted that the compensation cheque 
addressed to the third party had been cashed. And it was mainly the representative who said 
theyd been inconvenienced. She explained that our service doesnt make awards to third 
parties. Overall, she was satisfied with Admirals resolution. 
Mr C has appealed our investigators view. He says that Admiral has disregarded his initial 
call where he provided details of the accident. And its fraud department got the information 
about the passenger discrepancy too late, meaning it couldnt repudiate that part of the 
claim. So, Im now making the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Admiral agrees that it should have investigated the injury claim for the female passenger 
before settling it. So, the key question here is  did Mr C lose out due to Admirals failure to 
do so?
Ive thought about whats more likely to have happened if Admiral had picked up on the 
potential discrepancy earlier. On balance, Im not persuaded its more likely than not, as 
opposed to less or equally likely, that the settlement would reasonably have been avoided. I 
agree that the photographs themselves arent clear enough to show the number and 
demographic of the car occupants. So Im not persuaded theyre enough to rule out that 
there were two men, a woman, and a child in the third partys car. And whilst theres a 
dispute between Mr C and the third partys account of who was in the car, the third party also 
provided medical evidence. On this point, Admiral has explained:
as court compliant medical reports were presented by the representatives of the 
injured parties, we would not look to dispute expert evidence, this would be 
prohibitively expensive, including the instruction of barristers and further medical 
experts, as such it is not an economically viable option given the relatively low 
settlement value of the claims.
When considering whether an insurer acted reasonably in how it settled a claim, this 
includes thinking about the weight of available evidence and the potential cost implications 
for challenging a claim. I consider the latter point  about costs  to be a reasonable 
commercial consideration here. Particularly given the sums at stake. Its not unreasonable to 
settle when the cost to challenge/litigate would likely outweigh the claim amount. Whilst 
Admiral accepts that it should have investigated further, Im not satisfied its more likely than 
not this would have led to a different outcome. Whilst I empathise with Mr Cs predicament, 
Im not upholding this point.
Mr C thinks a discount should be applied to the childrens injury claims. But I understand this 
part of the claim hasnt been accepted/settled by Admiral. Overall, Im not directing it to 
reinstate Mr Cs No Claims Discount. Im conscious that Mr C did initially admit liability. And, 
as explained above, Im not persuaded the claim could reasonably have been wholly refuted 
 meaning it would likely always have been reported as a fault claim. 
Ive also considered the non-financial impact on Mr C caused by Admirals handling of the 
claim. Whilst hes unhappy that the £150 compensation was sent to his representative, hed 
authorised her to handle the claim and complaint. And the cheque was cashed rather than 
returned. Additionally, as the representative dealt with the handling of the claim, she (rather 
than Mr C) experienced the trouble and upset of sorting things out with Admiral. As our 
investigator has explained, our service cant make awards for the impact on third parties. In 
all the circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to award more 
compensation.I do understand how frustrating and upsetting this situation has been for Mr C and his 
representative. But its not my role to pass judgement on the actions of the third party  or on 
whos responsible for the accident itself. What Ive considered is whether Admiral acted 
reasonably in the circumstances  and whether Mr C lost out due to any errors it made. As I 
cant fairly or safely conclude that hes been left at a loss due to errors by Admiral, Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman