DRN-3626354
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint relates to a second charge loan he had, and which was administered by 
BCMGlobal Mortgage Services Limited (BCM). He is unhappy about the correspondence he 
received regarding the outstanding balance on the loan and the letter before action sent to 
him in May 2022. In addition, Mr D raised concerns about who handled the complaint 
responded to on 19 May 2022, as the author of that letter had been involved in the 
correspondence he is unhappy about.
What happened
Mr D took out a second charge loan in 2005 over a term of ten years. In June 2015 the loan 
was transferred to the current lender, which is not regulated. That lender appointed BCM to 
administer the loan on its behalf. The term of the loan had expired before it was transferred 
to the new lender. 
BMC responded to a complaint by Mr D. He wasnt happy with the response, and he asked 
this service to consider the complaint in June 2020. 
On 23 September 2020 Mr D wrote to BCM. He confirmed that he had referred his complaint 
to this service and then told BCM about his medical situation. He asked that in light of his 
this, BCM hold the account until a decision and investigation is made by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and to give me time to recover from this and any future surgery. 
On 28 September 2020 BCM responded to Mr Ds letter. It confirmed that it would take no 
action while your complaint is reviewed by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
BCM again wrote him on 13 November 2020 and it acknowledged the information he had 
provided about his health with his letter of 8 November 2020. It said that it was happy to wait 
for you to resolve your issues with the Financial Ombudsman Service as outlined in your 
letter.
In its letter of 26 May 2021 BCM thanked Mr D for providing evidence of his health 
circumstances. He was told it had made a note of this so that the arrears team didnt contact 
him so frequently. 
On 23 June 2021 BCMs letter acknowledged Mr Ds health situation. It explained that this 
didnt mean that he didnt need to repay his loan. It also explained that the regulator required 
it to contact him about the loan and so the arrears team would correspond with him, although 
not as frequently due to his health.
An Ombudsman colleague issued a final decision on 22 February 2022 about Mr Ds 
complaint that the loan had been mis-sold, the interest rate and BCMs action taken to 
recover the outstanding debt following the end of the term. It was suggested that Mr D and 
BCM open a dialogue about the outstanding balance of the loan.
Exactly a month later BCM sent a letter to Mr D which has been described as a letter before 
action. The opening sentence of the letter said that it had been trying to contact him. The 
letter explained that unless a mutually acceptable arrangement could be reached to bring the 
loan account up to date, BCM would have no alternative but to instruct solicitors to 
commence action for the repossession of his property.
Mr D called BCM about the letter and subsequently wrote to it on 4 April 2022 setting out the 
details of a new complaint about the letter before action and the series of letters hed 
received while BCM had known about his medical situation. He highlighted that the letter 
before action said BCM had been trying to contact him, but he hadnt heard anything from it 
in months. He said that the letter was clearly a standard letter without due care of attention.
BCM responded to Mr Ds complaint in its letter of 19 May 2022, which it summarised as a 
complaint about him being unhappy that he received a letter before action on 22 March 2022 
and the previous correspondence he was sent. It confirmed that the sentence in the letter 
before action of we have been attempting to contact you was a standard sentence and not 
relevant to Mr Ds situation. BCM apologised for not having amended the letter before it was 
sent. However, it pointed out that it had sent him quarterly statements confirming the 
outstanding balance, so it had contacted him about the balance in the months before the 
letter.
In relation to the matter of further correspondence about repayment of the loan following 
BCMs letters of 28 September 2020 and 13 November 2020, it confirmed that it had said it 
would take no further litigation action in those letters. It had not said that it would not contact 
Mr D in relation to the outstanding balance. BCM also confirmed that it was satisfied that it 
had corresponded appropriately with Mr D and so it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider this complaint. One of our 
investigators did so. She explained to Mr D that his concerns about the handling of his 
complaint was not something that we would comment on as complaint handling doesnt fall 
within our jurisdiction. In addition, she would not be commenting on matters that had been 
dealt with in my colleagues final decision. In relation to the remainder of the complaint, she 
didnt recommend that it be upheld.
Mr D asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman as he said he had nothing to 
lose by it being reviewed again. He said he thought it was unfair for BCM or this service to 
assume that the letter of 28 September 2020 was clear about litigation being put on hold 
when that subject was not specifically mentioned. He also said that BCM had made other 
dreadful errors with the account and were not blameless, but didnt detail what those errors 
were. Mr D also highlighted that his complaint, that he was being punished for something 
that happened before BCM administered the account hadnt been responded to, and he 
hadnt had an explanation of how BCM could legally do so. 
The investigator considered what Mr D had said, but it didnt change her conclusions. In 
relation to Mr Ds last point, she pointed out that this had been covered by my Ombudsman 
colleagues final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Before I set out my conclusion on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that I will not 
be commenting on any issues that were covered in my Ombudsman colleagues final 
decision of February 2022. That includes issues relating to BCM taking action based on the 
loan balances at the time of the transfer to the current lender. In addition, as our investigator 
explained, complaint handling, in and of itself, is not an activity that falls within our 
jurisdiction. As such, while I have noted Mr Ds concerns, I wont be commenting on them.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D is unhappy that BCM has taken account of events that happened before the loan was 
transferred to the current lender and it started to administer it. While not key to the outcome 
of this complaint I would confirm to Mr D that when the loan was transferred between the 
various lenders the existing loan remained in place without any change, other than who 
owned it. This means that the new lender simply picked up from where the old one left off, 
which would have included dealing with any existing issues on the account, such as arrears 
or the term having ended.
I have read the letter before action sent to Mr D and, as both he and BCM have said, it is 
clearly a standard letter. As such the sentence it contained saying that BCM had been trying 
to contact him about the arrears wasnt accurate. However, BCM has apologised for not 
having amended the wording of the letter and I am satisfied that is all that is required in the 
circumstances. 
As for the matter of the correspondence Mr D received regarding the loan, I would explain 
that the regulator expects a lender to keep a borrower who is in arrears up to date with the 
status of their loan. It is also required to ensure that the borrower is aware of the potential 
consequences of the situation. So BCM wasnt in a position to stop all correspondence about 
Mr Ds loan, even if it had wanted to. 
However, it did say on two occasions that it would stop action on the loan. From Mr Ds 
explanations during the course of this complaint, I understand that when he asked BCM to 
stop all action on the loan, he was asking for all action and correspondence to stop. 
However, that is not what BCM would have understood from his request. Action on a loan or 
mortgage that is in arrears has a particular meaning to lenders, so what BCM understood 
Mr D was asking to happen was BCM not to take action to repossess his home. 
BCM agreed to the request as it understood it, and so it didnt renege on the commitment it 
made when it continued to correspond with Mr D about repaying the outstanding balance on 
the loan. So while BCM didnt use the word litigation in its letters in September and 
November 2020, I am satisfied that is what it was agreeing not to do in those letters. Indeed, 
as I have explained above, BCM couldnt have agreed to everything Mr D wanted, even if it 
had understood what that was. Overall, I cant find that BCM did anything wrong in this 
regard.
I note that Mr D doesnt think that BCM took account of his health situation. I am not 
persuaded that is the case. I have seen many cases where there are arrears on a loan or 
mortgage and no arrangement in place. I would usually expect to see considerably more 
correspondence and telephone calls to a borrower than there was in Mr Ds case. In 
addition, when he asked for action to be suspended and for more time to be given, BCM 
agreed. So it would appear that BCM did adjust its behaviour toward Mr D because of his 
health situation. 
Although I know that Mr D wont agree with my conclusions, I am not persuaded that BCM 
acted inappropriately toward him or treated him unfairly in respect to the matters that this 
decision covers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2023.
 Derry Baxter
Ombudsman