DRN-3774921
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that IWOCA Ltd didnt send reminders about repaying a 
business loan. C is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr A. He asks that IWOCA 
writes off the interest it applied. 
What happened
C took out a loan via the coronavirus business interruption loan scheme (CBILS). Mr As 
partner was seriously unwell and he was concerned about keeping on top of repayment 
dates. He says the adviser at IWOCA agreed to send him a reminder when the loan was due 
to be repaid, before interest was applied. He received a reminder and repaid the loan in late 
April 2022. However, IWOCA told him C owed interest which had started to accrue the 
previous month. IWOCA said it sent an email in March 2022 about this. Mr A says the email 
had no content.
Mr A asks that the balance is written off without adverse data on his credit file. He says if 
hed received a reminder in time C would have paid off the loan. Mr As partner died in early 
April 2022 and he asked that his personal circumstances at that time be taken into account. 
Our investigator said IWOCA had provided enough information to Mr A about when interest 
would be applied. As IWOCA hadnt made an error, he said he couldnt require it to waive or 
refund interest.
Mr A didnt agree. He said IWOCA agreed to send a reminder and, due to his circumstances, 
he relied on this. He said he didnt even receive the email reminder sent to other customers, 
just a blank email. He thought it was spam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C took out a CBILS loan. The UK Government paid the interest for the first 12 months. After 
this, C was responsible for paying interest. This is clearly set out in the offer letter. In order to 
apply for government assistance C had to sign and return the offer letter. Mr A signed the 
letter on behalf of C. 
C drew down the loan on 29 March 2021. Under the loan terms and conditions, C would 
become responsible for interest 12 months later, on 29 March 2022. 
Mr A says he intended to repay the loan before C became responsible for the interest. He 
says the only way to ensure this is to add the date to your calendar. Because of his difficult 
personal circumstances, he says he asked IWOCA to do this for him and IWOCA agreed to 
send reminders. I think IWOCA did send reminders and it provided enough information for 
Mr A to know when C would become responsible for the interest.
IWOCA emailed a repayment schedule to Mr A on 29 March 2021. This set out the 
repayments from 29 April 2022 in the form of a table. The first repayment was due on 29 
April 2022. It totalled about £13,000 which included principal of about £8,000 and interest of 
about £5,000. So Mr A was made aware that the first repayment due at the end of April 2022 
would include accrued interest. 
IWOCA sent an account summary at the beginning of each month. This said the interest rate 
was zero because the government pays for the first twelve months.  
IWOCA sent an email to Mr A on 23 March 2022. This said hed soon be responsible for 
paying interest. The email said a payment was due on 29 April 2022 which will include the 
interest youve accrued. IWOCAs records show the email was read. Mr A says the contents 
were blank. Mr A sent a copy of the email as he received it. While the body of the email he 
provided was blank, the heading Heads up on your CBILS loan interest and repayments 
was visible and the email included a link to sign into his account and contact details if he 
needed help. While it was unfortunate the email content was missing, I think the heading 
ought to have alerted Mr A to the upcoming change in the loan. He could have contacted 
IWOCA or logged into his account. He didnt have to use the link in the email to do this if he 
was concerned it was spam.
IWOCA sent an account summary at the beginning of April 2022. This said the interest rate 
was 1.04% (in contrast to previous months when it said interest was zero). IWOCA sent a 
payment reminder on 22 April 2022. C repaid the loan at the end of April 2022.
I dont doubt that Mr A intended to repay the loan before C became responsible for the 
interest. Or that his circumstances were extremely difficult at that time. And I have no reason 
to doubt that the body of the email Mr A received in March 2022 was blank, as he says. Mr A 
says some of IWOCAs emails required him to log into his account to see the full content. 
None of that means that IWOCA made an error. The terms of the loan, including when C 
would become responsible for the interest were clear. The repayment schedule made it clear 
the first payment (at the end of April 2022) would include accrued interest. IWOCA sent a 
reminder before the first loan repayment was due at the end of April 2022. It sent an email in 
March 2022 and received confirmation it was read. Theres no evidence that IWOCA knew, 
or should have known, at the time there was a problem with the email when it was delivered. 
I need to bear in mind here that this was a business loan. C, a limited company, is the 
account holder and the complainant. I think its reasonable for IWOCA to expect Cs 
directors and officers to manage Cs account, including logging into the account to see 
messages and statements. 
Mr A says its unfair for IWOCA to benefit from the interest accrued during April 2022. 
However, IWOCA had loaned the money to C and was entitled to apply interest at the 
agreed rate. Once the first 12 months had passed, it was Cs responsibility to pay the 
interest.
Mr As personal circumstances were very distressing. I understand why he missed the date 
that C became responsible for interest on the loan, and why he didnt follow up on emails 
from IWOCA that might, in normal circumstances, have prompted him to act. While thats 
understandable, it doesnt mean IWOCA made an error. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A, 
especially at such a difficult time. But I think IWOCA gave him sufficiently clear information about when C would become responsible for interest on the loan. Mr A is entitled to ask 
IWOCA to make allowances for his circumstances, and IWOCA is entitled to decide whether 
to do so. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think IWOCA made an error that 
would make it fair and reasonable for me to require it to waive interest correctly applied to 
the loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman