DRN-3837876
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited avoided his motor insurance policy and will not 
remove the marker from the Motor Insurance Database. 
What happened
Mr R applied for motor insurance through an insurance comparison site and selected Aviva 
from the insurers that were made available to him. The policy started on 21 July 2022. 
The policy was with Aviva Online, so details of the cover and associated documents were 
available to Mr R through the customer portal online, where he could check and manage his 
policy. On inception Aviva have said the policy documentation would also have been posted 
to Mr R, after which communications would be through e-mail or SMS. 
Aviva e-mailed Mr R on 27 July 2022 to query differing information they had noted from their 
records about whether Mr Rs car had modifications. Aviva asked Mr R to check the 
information and if amendments were needed, that he log into his Aviva account through the 
customer portal and make the necessary changes. 
Avivas records showed the e-mail was opened on 27 July 2022 at 17:47, but there was no 
attempt made to access the Aviva account. 
Due to there being no response, Aviva says they made further attempts to contact Mr R. 
Theyve said their records show attempts to contact Mr R on 6 August 2022, 15 August 
2022, 22 August 2022 and 23 August 2022. 
Aviva have said Mr R responded to them on 23 August 2022 to say: Hi car modifications as 
u agree on insurance car is ecu chip. (sic). 
On 30 August 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr R to avoid his policy as they concluded Mr R had 
deliberately failed to disclose the modification. Aviva explained they would not have provided 
cover if the modification had been disclosed at the outset. Aviva therefore avoided Mr Rs 
policy from inception, and notified the Motor Insurance Database of their decision. Aviva 
retained the premiums Mr R had paid, but after Mr R complained, as a gesture of goodwill 
only, Aviva agreed to refund the premiums to Mr R. 
Mr R is unhappy as the marker against him is still reporting on the Motor Insurance 
Database and is affecting his ability to get insurance elsewhere, and is making his cover 
more expensive. 
Mr R has maintained throughout that he did disclose the modification about his car and that 
this issue relates to a problem between the comparison website he initially searched for 
quotes, and the information being transferred to Aviva. Mr R has also maintained that he let 
Aviva know as soon as he became aware of the discrepancy, so he has not tried to hide 
anything from the insurer. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary, they noted Aviva would not 
have quoted for the policy if the modification had been disclosed, and several earlier 
searches by Mr R through the comparison site (which included details of modifications) had 
resulted in Aviva declining to quote on those occasions. The Investigator also didnt find 
anything to suggest Mr R had proactively contacted Aviva, as he had suggested, to say the 
information about his policy was not correct, and the Investigator invited Mr R to provide any 
further evidence to support his version of events. The Investigator concluded there was 
nothing to suggest there had been a problem between information transferring between the 
comparison site and Aviva. And they said Aviva was entitled, under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), to avoid the policy.
Mr R and his representative disagreed with the Investigators findings. They said the fact 
Aviva did not offer a quote if modifications were declared was an invalid defence, and 
maintained the problem was with information not pulling through from the comparison site to 
Aviva. They said Mr R had contacted Aviva when he understood the modification was not 
showing on the policy, and Aviva should be able to find the phone calls to support this. Mr R 
and his representative felt strongly that what happened was unfair in view of the impact the 
marker was having on Mr R. 
Aviva were able to find three phone calls, all having taken place after the policy had been 
avoided. And overall, the Investigator was unable to see anything to support that Mr R had 
alerted Aviva to the error on his policy documentation, as he had suggested. 
Mr R and his representative continued to disagree with the Investigator and maintained 
Aviva would still have had an insurance policy in place that would not have covered Mr R  
and it was only because he notified them of the error that they became aware of it. 
As our Investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
those reached by our Investigator. 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
Aviva thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose the modification on his car. 
Mr R and his representative accept that Aviva does not provide cover for cars with the type 
of modification that Mr Rs car has. But they strongly dispute that Mr R was attempting to 
mislead the insurer in anyway. I have considered both parties submissions, and where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive reviewed Mr Rs evidence of a screenshot which he has provided to support he correctly 
input the modification into the comparison site. However, I find it difficult to accept this as 
evidence that Mr R more likely than not input the modification for the quote he eventually 
took up with Aviva. I say this as there is no date on this screenshot or anything else to 
suggest this is linked to the Aviva quote that Mr R went on to accept. 
Avivas internal records include a list of 11 times they declined to provide Mr R with a quote 
due to vehicle modifications he had disclosed. The earliest decline to quote is from 23 May 
2022, and the last decline to quote is on 21 July 2022. Aviva have confirmed the quote Mr R 
went ahead with was dated 30 June 2022. So it appears Mr R returned to Avivas quote after 
they would not have appeared as a potential insurer on his subsequent quotation requests in 
July 2022. 
At this point, I dont think it would be unreasonable to suggest that where an insurer has 
failed to quote on numerous occasions, and then has suddenly appeared as an option, that 
this might prompt someone to question why that was the case, particularly if that insurer may 
have then been the more attractive quote. 
Mr R says he notified Aviva that information about the car was incorrect and that Aviva 
would not have been aware of the wrong information had he not alerted them to it. Mr R and 
his representative refer to three phone calls in support of this. However, I find this difficult to 
accept. 
The policy Mr R took out with Aviva was an online only policy, so there would have been no 
sales call with Aviva following referral from the comparison site. Aviva was able to locate 
three phone calls, all of which happened after Aviva notified Mr R about the policy 
avoidance. Our Investigator gave Mr R the opportunity to provide details / evidence of any 
communications he had with Aviva to support his version of what happened, but nothing 
further was submitted. 
On balance I think Mr R more likely than not was aware that disclosing vehicle modifications 
was important for his motor insurance  there are 11 requests for quotes which all include 
disclosure of modifications. In the circumstances, I think it could reasonably follow that 
someone aware of the importance of disclosing such information would then more likely than 
not check the insurer had taken them into account when confirming cover. I think on 
balance, Mr R was provided with enough opportunity to check his policy documents after he 
took out the policy. 
Aviva have said Mr R opted for online documents only, but they still would have posted 
policy documentation to Mr R when he first took out the policy, and this would have included 
a reminder for Mr R to check the details of his policy. Mr R would have also had access to 
policy documents through his Aviva account. Avivas records are that Mr R registered for the 
online Aviva account on 20 July 2022, and accepted and purchased the policy on 21 July 
2022. So I think its fair to say Mr R had access to his policy documentation online. 
In addition, Avivas submissions support Mr R was sent a SMS on 21 July 2022 welcoming 
him to Aviva, which also confirmed policy details had been emailed to him as well.  In view of the above, I find it more likely than not Mr R would have had access to his policy 
documents to check them, and ensure that the cover he wanted had been put in place. I am 
also mindful customers do have a responsibility to check their policy documents. 
Furthermore, Aviva have provided a copy of a message emailed to Mr R on 27 July 2022 at 
12:30 with the subject heading Please review your policy. The message explained Aviva 
had noted an earlier request for a quotation dated 23 May 2022 which had included vehicle 
modifications. However, the quotation Mr R had gone on to take up with Aviva on 21 July 
2022 disclosed no vehicle modifications. Aviva asked Mr R to log into his customer portal to 
amend the details if they werent correct. 
As noted earlier, this email was opened on 27 July 2022 at 17:47, but there was no attempt 
to access Mr Rs Aviva account. Aviva continued to make other attempts to contact Mr R, as 
described earlier, and the last attempt prompted a response from Mr R confirming the 
vehicle was modified as you agree on insurance. However, had Mr R reviewed the policy 
documentation, it is clear that his policy insurance documents record no vehicle 
modifications, so its not clear to me where Mr R would have concluded, directly from Aviva, 
that Aviva had agreed to this. 
Mr R and his representative maintain the fault lies with Aviva and that information from the 
comparison site did not pull through correctly. However, on the balance of the submissions 
available to me, there is nothing to suggest there was any such error. 
Mr R says Aviva would not have known about the modification had it not been for him, but in 
view of the above, I think Aviva were aware there was the possibility of an error before Mr R 
replied to their attempts to contact him about it. And Mr Rs response on 23 August 2022 
appears only to have been prompted by Avivas communications to him. 
Aviva have confirmed they would not have provided any cover because of the modification to 
the car  something Mr R accepts. In the circumstances, I think its fair to say Mr R 
understood the importance of declaring vehicle modifications, and he proceeded with a 
quotation for which the policy documents then confirmed there were no modifications noted 
for the car. Aviva appear to have therefore treated Mr Rs misrepresentation as deliberate or 
reckless. This means under CIDRA, Aviva is entitled to apply the relevant remedy set out in 
the legislation. And in this case, that includes the insurer being able to avoid the policy with 
there being no need to return any premiums  although in this case Aviva chose to return the 
premiums as a gesture of goodwill. 
Overall, in the circumstances, I dont think this is an unfair or unreasonable position for Aviva 
to have taken and I think Aviva were entitled to take the steps they did under CIDRA. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Aviva to remove the record from the Motor Insurance 
Database. 
I realise Mr R will be very disappointed, and I understand there is an ongoing impact for him 
because of whats happened, but overall I think Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman