DRN-1631554
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained that following his vehicle being stolen, his motor insurance provider 
Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) has valued his vehicle too low and has also unfairly increased 
the excess applied to his claim.
What happened
Mr Hs vehicle was stolen, and he made a claim under his motor insurance policy provided 
by Gefion. Gefion accepted Mr Hs claim and valued his vehicle at £2,810. It then deducted 
Mr Hs excess of £500 from this amount followed by an additional £500 excess Gefion says 
was applied as Mr H took too long to make the claim. This was in line with his policy terms 
and conditions.
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and after consulting the available motor trade 
guides thought the valuation Gefion had placed on his vehicle was fair. Our Investigator also 
looked at the additional excess Gefion had applied to Mr Hs claim, he didnt think this was 
fair and thought Gefion should refund the £500 plus 8% simple interest.
Gefion disagreed, it explained the additional excess is explained within the policy terms and 
conditions and is applicable to all policy holders. Although it couldnt show it had incurred 
any additional cost due to the late reporting of the claim, it maintained it had treated Mr H 
fairly by charging the additional excess.
As Gefion didnt agree with our Investigators opinion this complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy state:
The most we will pay under this section is:
1. the trade value of the motor vehicle immediately before the loss;
2. the purchase price of the motor vehicle;
3. the motor vehicle indemnity limit specified in the policy schedule; or4. the value recorded in the schedule of vehicles.
whichever is the lowest amount.
The terms and conditions also define trade value as:
The value of a motor vehicle as ascertained from the standard trade guides less any 
discounts available to the motor trade.
Our service doesnt value vehicles, but we look to see that an insurer has made a fair and 
reasonable offer thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We generally find 
the trade guides persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices.
Gefion valued Mr Hs vehicle at £2,810 before any deductions. 
Our Investigator consulted the available trade guides which valued Mr Hs claim between 
£2,810 and £3,125. As the valuation Gefion arrived at for Mr Hs vehicle is within the range 
provided by the available guides I think it is fair.
Excess
Gefion applied an initial excess to Mr Hs claim of £500. It also added a further excess to the 
claim as Mr H reported the theft of his vehicle later than he should have. 
It is common for policy holders to agree to an excess when they take insurance. The excess 
reduces the risk for the insurer and often reduces the premium the policy holder is asked to 
pay. So, I think the initial excess (£500) is fair.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy are clear about the additional excess it charges its 
policy holders for the late reporting of a claim. They state:
You must report any incident likely to give rise to a claim within 48 hours from the time of 
the incident. If this condition is not met and, in the event, that the incident leads to a claim, 
your total excess for the claim will increase by £500. You will also be liable to pay any 
additional costs we incur.
Although this is clear in the policy I think it would only be fair to apply the additional excess 
when Gefion incurs additional costs, it is not for Gefion to punish the policy holder. But 
Gefion has not provided any evidence of additional costs it incurred due to the late reporting 
of the claim.
Putting things right
As Gefion has not shown it incurred any addition costs due to the late reporting of the claim I 
think it should refund the additional £500 excess it charged Mr H. It should also pay Mr H 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date the claim was settled until the date the payment 
is made.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Gefion Insurance A/S to put things right by doing what 
I've said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.Terry Woodham
Ombudsman