DRN-4392678
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way in which Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit 
(Pepper) has applied interest to his tracker mortgage, following changes to the Bank of 
England base rate (BoEBR).
What happened
Mr G holds an interest only mortgage for which Pepper acts as the mortgage administrator. 
The mortgage was originally taken out in 2004, for a term of twenty years and on an initial 
two year tracker rate deal. At the end of that deal (in 2006), Mr G took out another tracker 
rate deal, this time covering the lifetime of the mortgage  over an eighteen year term. It  
looks like Pepper began administering the mortgage in May 2020 and Pepper is responsible 
for dealing with the complaint raised.
Since the mortgage has been with Pepper, the BoEBR has changed (increased) on a 
number of occasions. In October 2022, Mr G complained to Pepper that it had increased the 
interest rate on his mortgage prematurely, following increases to the BoEBR and this had 
resulted in him paying more interest than he should. He said that when the BoEBR had 
previously fallen, his then lender had confirmed that changes to the interest rate happen a 
month later than what Pepper had been doing. He asked Pepper to give him the excess 
interest back and to pay some compensation for the inconvenience caused to him.
Pepper didnt uphold the complaint. It said that interest had been charged and the monthly 
payment amount changed in accordance with the terms of the mortgage offer from 2006. It 
said this was consistent with what the original lender had done.
Mr G remained dissatisfied. He emphasised that he wasnt unhappy with the timing of the 
change to his payment amount  only the timing of the change to the interest. When he 
couldnt get anywhere further trying to resolve things directly with Pepper, he referred his 
concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator here initially rejected the 
complaint, saying they thought interest had been applied correctly.
However, after Mr G made further representations, the investigator thought the complaint 
should be upheld. They said they thought Mr G was correct in saying that the changes to the 
interest charged should have happened a month later than they did. The investigator 
recommended that Pepper refund the difference in interest plus 8% and that it should pay 
Mr G £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Pepper disagreed and so the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a Provisional 
Decision (PD) in September 2023. In it, I said:
The relevant part of the mortgage offer (Section 4) states the following:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
 a variable rate which is 0.49% above the Bank of England, currently 4.50%, for the entire
life of the mortgage, giving a current rate payable of 4.99%.
If the Bank of England Base Rate changes, we will review the interest rate applicable to your
mortgage on the first working day of the following month. We will then notify you in writing of
your new interest rate and payment, which will take effect from the first day of the month
following the review. We will follow this procedure whether the Bank of England Base Rate
rises or falls.
Pepper says that this term allows it to change the rate of interest on Mr Gs mortgage on the
first day of the month following a change in the BoEBR. So if, for example, the BoEBR
changes in January, it says the term allows it to change the interest rate on the first day in
February.
Peppers position seems to centre around the part of the term that says .your new interest
rate and payment, which will take effect from the first day of the month following the review.
It seems to be saying that the review means the change to the BoEBR.
However, the word review is mentioned earlier on in the term .we will review the interest
rate applicable to your mortgage on the first working day of the following month.. With
the following month meaning the month after the change in the BoEBR. In the absence of
any alternative definition of what is meant by review the only reasonable interpretation of
what is meant by review the second time it is mentioned within the term, is how it is defined
earlier in the term i.e. the review by the lender on the first working day of the month following
the change to the BoEBR.
As such, where the term says that the change in interest will take effect from the first day of
the month following the review, this must logically mean that the interest rate change
doesnt take place the month following the BoEBR change, but the month after that. Its
possible this isnt what the drafter of the term intended. However, I consider the only
reasonable interpretation of the term as written is as I have said.
This means that where a change to the BoEBR takes place in a given month (e.g. January),
the interest rate changes the month after the month after that (e.g. March).
I have not seen any alternative definition of what is meant by the review within the
mortgage offer. Ive not been provided with a copy of the general mortgage terms and
conditions, but I have seen a copy of the original lenders Mortgage Offer General
Conditions 2005, which are likely to have applied to Mr Gs mortgage. This doesnt contain
an alternative definition for the review nor anything else that would change the meaning of
the relevant term within the mortgage offer.
Mr G has made the point that this is how his contract operated when the BoEBR has fallen in
the past and he has understandably raised a concern about how Peppers approach is
inconsistent with what the previous lender did at that time and that this inconsistency very
much works against him. Pepper seems to be saying that its approach is consistent, but it is
not.
Regardless, I find the term is clear in saying that the change in the interest rate takes place
the month after the month after a change in the BoEBR. So this is what Pepper should have
done and the basis for what it needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
My understanding is that the mortgage is still running (it not being due to expire until 2024).That being the case, I am currently minded to say that Pepper needs to restructure Mr Gs
account as though each of the interest rate increases happened one month later than they
did. Pepper will need to then calculate a new contractual monthly payment (CMP) and inform
Mr G what this is.
In addition, Peppers actions have caused Mr G unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Bearing in mind the upset this situation has caused and the time and effort Mr G has spent
trying to get things sorted, I currently think that an award of £300 is appropriate and in line
with our general approach to compensation awards.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence and/or arguments by 23 October 2023. 
Mr G responded to say that he agreed with the decision Id reached. He said though that he 
was likely to repay the mortgage in the near future and that if the account restructure isnt 
completed before the mortgage is redeemed, he should receive a refund of the 
overpayments plus 8% simple interest (which was what the investigator had originally 
suggested). He also said that he wished to see statements showing the daily balances from 
01 January 2022.
Pepper responded to say that it still thought it had administered the account correctly and 
that the CMI it had charged was correct. It said that as the CMI is calculated in arrears, it 
does not make sense for the interest rate and payment amount to change on the same date, 
as this would result in the borrower being asked to overpay for the prior month.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings on the substantive 
issue of the application of section 4 of the 2006 Mortgage Offer.
I still find that the natural meaning of the term (which is contained above within my PD, which 
forms part of this final decision) is that the change in the interest rate takes place the month 
after the month after a change in the BoEBR. So it remains my view that this is what Pepper 
should have done and is still the basis for what it needs to do to put things right.
Nothing Pepper said in response to my PD engages with the detail of my analysis of what 
the term actually says and what that means.
In terms of what it has said about the interest being calculated in arrears, I think I understand 
the point it is making. But it is irrelevant in the sense that it doesnt change what the term 
says about the timing of changes to the interest rate. Pepper must follow what the contract 
says and it cannot charge more than the contract permits for its own administrative 
convenience. 
Putting things right
Mr G has said that he may be redeeming the mortgage very soon. As such, Pepper must do 
one of two things, dependent on the timing of any redemption. 
If the calculation and restructure of the account can take place before the mortgage is 
redeemed
Pepper must restructure Mr Gs account as though each of the interest rate increases happened one month later than they did. Pepper will need to then calculate a new 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) and inform Mr G what this is. Pepper must provide its 
calculations to Mr G, so that he is able to understand how the later application of the interest 
rate increases impacts the outstanding balance over time. 
If the calculation and restructure of the account cannot take place before the mortgage is 
redeemed
Pepper must refund Mr G the additional interest he has paid, plus 8% simple interest, from 
the date the additional interest was charged through to the date of payment. 
Regardless of which scenario applies, Pepper must also pay Mr G £300 in compensation for 
the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to him  reflecting the time and effort 
he has spent trying to get things sorted. I still consider this is a fair amount of compensation 
and in line with our general approach to compensation awards. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Pepper (UK) Limited  trading as 
Engage Credit and I direct it to do what Ive set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman