DRN-2393682
The complaint
Mr G has complained about HMCA Insurance Ltds handling of a claim he made under his
private medical insurance policy. Mr G has also complained that HMCA misled him at the
time he was sold the policy as to what conditions it would cover.
What happened
In April 2016, Mr G took out a private medical insurance policy with a particular company
(which Ill call B).
In September 2017, Mr G called HMCA to find out about switching his cover to it. After
asking Mr G some questions, HMCAs adviser agreed to send him a quote.
In October 2017, following a couple of further telephone calls, Mr G agreed to take out the
policy with HMCA. The policy contained an endorsement stating that Mr G would be covered
for acute conditions which originated after 1 April 2016, which was when he had taken out
his policy with B.
In 2019, Mr G needed a replacement of his right knee due to osteoarthritis. He contacted
HMCA seeking cover for this procedure under his policy.
After obtaining information from Mr Gs GP, HMCA declined the claim. It said that he was
experiencing symptoms of his osteoarthritis before April 2016. It said this meant cover for his
treatment was excluded under the policy.
Mr G appealed against HMCAs decision. He said that he had held private medical insurance
cover continuously for 30 years and had told the adviser of this when he was sold the policy.
Hed understood he would continue to be covered for conditions which had arisen during this
time.
After reviewing the telephone recordings, HMCA acknowledged that its adviser should have
clarified the terms of his transfer from B. As a concession, it agreed to provide cover for this
particular procedure. However, it said it would not provide cover if he were to need a similar
operation on his left knee.
When Mr Gs policy renewed a short time later, HMCA amended the endorsement on his
policy to state that he was covered for any condition which arose after 1 January 1984. It
also added an endorsement stating that he wasnt covered for any treatment related to
osteoarthritis.
Mr G underwent the operation. However, he found that the cover provided by HMCA still left
him with a significant shortfall which he was required to pay.
Mr G complained to HMCA about the initial decision to decline his claim and the decision to
add an endorsement on his policy which meant that he couldnt claim in future for his other
knee. He said that he had been led to believe by the adviser at the time of sale that he would
be entitled to claim for this treatment. He also complained that HMCA hadnt covered his full
treatment cost.
HMCA didnt uphold his complaint. It was satisfied it had treated Mr G fairly.
Mr G was unhappy at HMCAs response. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings were as follows:
Mr G contacted HMCA by telephone to ask for a quote for private medical insurance. Ive
listened to the phone call. HMCAs adviser asked Mr G about whether he had existing cover.
Mr G confirmed that he hed held a policy with B since April 2016, though he also mentioned
that hed held cover with other insurers going back 30 years. The adviser told Mr G: you
could come across as a transfer member and what that actually means is that any conditions
which have originated whilst you have been with [B] would be eligible under those transfer
terms. I consider that this was clear.
The adviser also asked Mr G whether he was under any investigation or treatment, including
whether hed visited a specialist or was aware that any treatment or investigation was
pending. Mr G answered no.
The adviser agreed to send Mr G a quote in writing for his consideration. Ive seen the
information which was sent to Mr G. Im satisfied that it clearly described the cover which
was on offer, including the levels of benefit for different types of treatment.
Mr G agreed to take out the cover. He was sent a welcome pack which detailed his cover.
His membership certificate included an endorsement stating that he would be covered for
acute conditions which had originated since April 2016.
When Mr G made his claim in 2019, HMCA obtained his medical records. Having done so, it
did not challenge Mr G over the information he gave when he took out the policy. I therefore
consider that HMCA has accepted that Mr Gs answer at that time that he was not subject to
any ongoing investigations or treatment was correct, at least in respect of his osteoarthritis.
HMCA initially declined Mr Gs claim on the grounds that his condition had existed before
April 2016. Ive asked HMCA to point to the specific medical evidence on which it based this
decision and it has not been able to do so. I therefore conclude that it had no reasonable
grounds for saying this.
However, this error of HMCA is not necessarily material in that a short time later it reversed
this decision and agreed to provide cover for the operation. This means Mr G was not
significantly disadvantaged by the original decision to decline his claim.
HMCA said it was accepting the claim as a concession because its adviser hadnt entered
into discussion with Mr G to clarify the transfer terms even though hed mentioned having
had 30 years of private medical cover. This implies that HMCA was allowing Mr G cover for
his operation even though he wasnt entitled to it under the terms of the policy. But, bearing
in mind that HMCA hasnt claimed that Mr G made a misrepresentation on taking out the
policy nor has it shown that the condition existed before April 2016, I consider that HMCA
hasnt demonstrated that there was any reason to exclude the claim in the first place.
However, HMCA then agreed to cover Mr G for any acute condition which had arisen since
January 1984 and included this as an endorsement on his policy at renewal. Im surprised
that HMCA took this decision. Mr Gs policy with B had been underwritten on a moratoriumbasis so that he would not have been covered under this for any condition which was pre-
existing as of April 2016. HMCA has therefore agreed to provide cover to Mr G for conditions
for which he may not have been entitled to claim under his policy with B. However, since this
is very much to Mr Gs advantage, I cant say this is unfair.
Mr G is upset that HMCA didnt meet the full cost of his treatment, thus leaving him with a
significant shortfall. However, Mr G had details of the policys benefits when he agreed to
take out the cover. These details included the amounts HMCA would pay towards particular
kinds of treatment. I consider it was up to Mr G to compare this to the cover provided by B
and decide whether the policy represented good value for money. HMCA has provided a
breakdown of the costs it paid in respect of Mr Gs claim. Im satisfied it has calculated these
costs fairly and has paid him the amount he was due under the terms of the policy.
This just leaves the issue of the endorsement which HMCA added to the policy excluding
cover in respect of treatment for osteoarthritis or any related condition. HMCA said it was
doing this because the policy provides cover only for treatment of acute illness and Mr Gs
osteoarthritis didnt meet this definition.
I dont think it was fair for HMCA to introduce this exclusion. Apart from anything else, its
argument that osteoarthritis-related claims are not covered under the policy is undermined
by its decision to provide cover for Mr Gs right-knee operation.
I understand that HMCA may have wanted to make clear to Mr G that it wouldnt pay for a
similar operation on his left knee should it be required. However, I consider it should wait
until such time as Mr G makes a claim and then deal with it in the normal way. I should
emphasise to both parties that I am not offering an opinion either way as to whether such a
claim should be regarded as eligible. I simply consider that it should be judged on the facts
and the terms of the policy that exist at the time, including the policys provisions in respect
of long-term or chronic conditions. I consider that HMCA should not try to pre-empt that
assessment process by seeking to exclude the potential claim in advance.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr G responded to say his left knee now needed replacement and HMCA had informed him 
it wouldnt provide cover for this, which he considered was unfair.
HMCA responded and pointed to the specific medical evidence on which it based its 
decision that Mr Gs knee condition existed before April 2016. It explained that the reason it 
put the exclusion on Mr Gs policy was because it generally took the view it was in the 
policyholders best interests that it highlight in advance that a potential future claim would 
probably not be covered rather than allow the policyholder to renew under the 
misapprehension that cover would be available for the particular treatment when it was 
needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the medical evidence highlighted by HMCA. I accept that this does indeed show that 
Mr G was suffering from osteoarthritis in his knee before April 2016 and it therefore did have 
reasonable grounds for its original decision to decline his claim for replacement of his right 
knee. However, as noted in my provisional decision, this matter has since become 
immaterial because HMCA later agreed to provide cover for the treatment in any case. HMCA has also since amended the policy endorsement relating to the date since when 
acute conditions need to have arisen to be eligible for cover.
I also note HMCAs explanation that it introduced the exclusion to Mr Gs policy to make sure 
he was under no illusion that it would be prepared to cover the cost of a similar operation on 
his left knee. I understand HMCAs rationale and accept that it was thereby seeking to act in 
Mr Gs best interests. I appreciate that it didnt want him to keep paying premiums based on 
the wrong impression that it would accept a claim for the cost of the left knee operation at a 
later date. However, while I consider it reasonable that HMCA should make Mr G aware that 
it would likely decline such a claim in the future, I consider it shouldnt have put the exclusion 
on the policy and should instead have waited to assess the claim if and when it was made. 
This is because, if such a claim were eventually made, HMCA would be able to rely on the 
exclusion to decline the claim without reference to the other policy terms. And if it were more 
than six years before Mr G sought to make the claim, he would effectively be denied the 
opportunity to complain about its decision because he would be time-barred by our rules.
As it happens, events have overtaken this issue because Mr G has now confirmed he is in 
need of a left knee replacement operation which he says HMCA has refused to cover. Mr G 
thinks this is unfair. However, while I know Mr G would like me to make a ruling on HMCAs 
decision, I am afraid I am going to disappoint him. This complaint, among other things, was 
about HMCAs decision to put an exclusion on Mr Gs policy and I have explained why 
I consider this was unfair. But I also emphasised in my provisional decision that I was not 
offering an opinion on whether a potential claim for a left knee replacement would be eligible 
and that the claim would need to be assessed by HMCA at the time it was made.
Unfortunately, Mr Gs claim for a left knee replacement hadnt been made at the time our 
investigator was looking into this complaint. This means I cant consider the matter within 
this decision. If Mr G is unhappy at HMCAs decision to decline his claim for a left knee 
replacement, he needs to complain to it and, if still unhappy, he may refer it to us as a new 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint in part.
I require HMCA Insurance Ltd to remove the endorsement it has applied to the policy 
excluding cover for the treatment of osteoarthritis and related conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman