DRN-3521004
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed her account to 
become overdrawn and says that as her balance showed she was in credit she spent money 
she didnt have. 
What happened
Miss R held a bank account with NatWest there was no arranged overdraft facility on the 
account. The account came with a contactless debit card. Following a number of gambling 
transactions completing in November 2020 Miss Rs account became overdrawn by around 
£2,700. 
Miss R complained to NatWest that it shouldnt have allowed her account to become 
overdrawn and that she had specifically chosen a bank account that did not allow for an 
overdraft. She thought because the transactions were successful she had sufficient funds 
available. 
NatWest gave a detailed explanation about the payment process. It explained that 
occasionally debit card payments dont show up in the balance including pending 
transactions. In Miss Rs case it was because the merchant had not been able to contact it 
immediately because the transactions were made offline.
An offline transaction is when a retailers terminal accepts a transaction without connecting 
to the banks system for checks. This means the transaction wont pend (reduce the 
available balance). In this situation NatWest honours the payment when it is presented for 
clearing in the following days which is how Miss Rs account became overdrawn. 
On 12 November 2020 when Miss R made the transactions her account held a balance of 
£6,461.11. But by the time all the debit card transactions (mainly large gambling transactions 
of up to £1,000 a transaction) cleared a few days later (between 13-16 November) her 
account was overdrawn by £2,700. NatWest has explained that Miss Rs account wasnt a 
basic account but that it was a select account. And with this type of account its terms and 
conditions allow it to accept payment instructions where payments are made by debit card 
even if there are insufficient funds in the account.
  
One of our investigators looked into Miss Rs concerns and reached the conclusion that the 
delay in the processing of the payments wasnt due to any errors by NatWest and so didnt 
think NatWest had done anything wrong. Miss R disagreed and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. This 
service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role isnt 
to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
The crux of Miss Rs complaint is that she is unhappy that NatWest allowed her account to 
become overdrawn. 
NatWest have confirmed that Miss R held a select account. Ive read through the terms and 
conditions of this account and they do allow NatWest to honour debit card payments even if 
there are insufficient funds held in the account  as was the case here. 
I understand the Miss R may not have read the terms and conditions of her account and 
made her own assumptions about what the account allowed. But as NatWest acted within 
the terms and conditions of the account, I cant say that NatWest has done anything wrong.
And I can see Miss R had previously complained to NatWest about the same issue in April 
2020  her account becoming overdrawn due making a debit card payment but having 
insufficient funds in her account  albeit on a much smaller amount (£2.40). However, 
NatWest did explain at the time about how payments worked and that offline payments can 
result in an account holders account becoming overdrawn. So, I think as Miss R had this 
explained to her around six months before, she was aware her account could become 
overdrawn.
Im sure Miss R appreciates holding a bank account comes with responsibilities  one of 
which is ensuring the account holds sufficient funds for items that the account holder wishes 
to pay for from the account. I understand Miss R believed she had a healthy balance prior to 
making the debit card payments on the 12 November in question and that she also believed 
she was still in credit because the payments were going through. 
But the payments she was making were for large amounts (£1,000 and £500) so I think its 
likely she was aware there was a possibility at least she was spending more than she had in 
the account. Ultimately, Miss R had the use of the funds and as there doesnt appear to be 
any error on NatWests part I dont see why she shouldnt have to pay this money back.
So I dont think NatWest did anything wrong or treated Miss R unfairly or unreasonably 
which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman