DRN-4088674
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account access.
What happened
Mr F says he had problems with Santander blocking his account access in July 2021 which 
required him to attend a branch. He says he has mobility issues. Mr F says a further 
payment was blocked in July 2022 and he spoke to Santander about it. He says he provided 
answers to all of the security questions but was told his accounts were all blocked and that 
he needed to attend a branch which is about 23 miles away. Mr F says he hasnt been 
treated fairly.
Santander says it is entitled to block an account, where it has security concerns, in line with 
account terms and conditions. It says its concerns were that Mr Fs voice didnt appear to 
match his age.
Mr F brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it was up to Santander to decide what its security measures were and 
that it had acted in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says Santander hasnt raised the voice issue in the past 
and it hasnt acted reasonably.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I thought this complaint should 
be upheld and didnt think Santander had acted fairly and reasonably.
I had no doubt Mr F appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building 
societies and that they must have measures in place to protect their and their customers 
money. I said that inevitably means that on occasions legitimate customers and their 
transactions can be affected by those anti- fraud measures. But I said that doesnt mean 
automatically that a business has acted unfairly by imposing such restrictions and that such 
measures as here are in line with agreed account terms and conditions. I accepted that 
legitimate customers can be caused inconvenience through no fault of their own or their 
bank.
I looked carefully at Mr Fs transaction in July 2022 and at Santanders account notes for that 
date and the previous account block in July 2021. I was satisfied that Mr Fs attempted 
transaction for just under £1,000 raised security concerns and was satisfied that its up to 
Santander when exercising its commercial judgement to make such a decision to block it 
pending further information. I made clear that I was satisfied Santander was entitled to make 
such decisions in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I listened to the telephone call between the parties to decide if Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably in then blocking Mr Fs account and requiring him to attend a branch. I was 
satisfied that Mr F answered all of the security questions, providing account and security 
numbers. He also provided correct answers to all of the other questions asked of him and 
corrected Santander when it incorrectly told him he had recently been asked to attend a 
branch. Mr F pointed out that was in 2021, not recently, and that he had attended.
So, I didnt think Santander acted fairly or reasonably in those circumstances and cant see 
any reason why it could reasonably conclude there was a security risk. I was satisfied that it 
was Mr F that corrected the incorrect information and it difficult to see how a fraudster would 
have known about the July 2021 incident or known the correct dates. I thought at that stage 
it ought to have been clear that the caller was Mr F.
I appreciated that Santander may say it had reasonable security concerns despite all of the 
correct information provided. But those concerns appear to be that Mr Fs voice didnt 
appear to match his age. I said it is difficult to see provisionally how that is a reasonable 
conclusion to reach having listened to the call and listened to Mr Fs correct answers to all of 
the questions asked.
I accepted that Mr F had mobility issues and could see that Santander were made aware of 
them in 2021. I said I would have expected in those circumstances for some allowance to 
have been made of Mr Fs circumstances and for Santander to have noted those issues on 
its records. I was satisfied that it is a significant step to block all of the accounts of someone 
with mobility issues and require them to attend a branch for an apparent issue over the age 
of a voice. I was satisfied Mr F was caused distress and inconvenience and made 
arrangements for transport to the branch. I thought that if Santander had concerns then it 
could have dealt with this issue differently and made appropriate adjustments.
My provisional view was that Santander should pay £200 compensation which I thought is 
fair and reasonable. And I said I hope it updates its records to avoid this sort of 
unreasonable assumption in the future. I couldnt see any evidence that Mr F suffered any 
real financial loss and thought the compensation amount fairly took into account travel costs.
Both parties have agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view I reached in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Santander should pay £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr F 
£200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman