DRN-3571008
The complaint
Mr K complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He
says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr K is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In July 1993, Mr K was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan. At the 
time, Mr K was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with him 
making a monthly contribution of £77 (gross). A further plan was taken out in April 1995, with 
gross level monthly contributions of £174.04. The last contributions were paid to both plans 
in September 2013. 
In 2018, Mr K complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that the FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and he shouldve been
advised to purchase added years through his employers OPS.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr K had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Ks file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2019 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed the following:
Over the period of liability (February 1994 to October 2013), the total contributions 
paid to the FSAVC plan represented 4.34% of pensionable pay. If 4.34% of 
pensionable pay had instead been directed to added years, Mr K could have 
purchased added years of 4 years 320 days up to age 60 if working full time 
throughout. However, the maximum allowed under the scheme was 40 years 
pensionable service, so Mr K had headroom of 4 years 4 days, which he couldve 
bought at 3.57% of pensionable salary.
 
Mr K had periods of part-time service. This reduced the number of years he couldve 
bought to 3 years 312 days. And as contributions were only paid to the FSAVC for 19 
years 9 months, rather than what would have been a 24-year contract term for added 
years, this further reduced the number of added years to 3 years 63 days.
The plan values in April 2019 were £93,842.58 and £159,805.86. Both plans 
benefitted from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option. At age 60, there was a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) of £7.48 per £100 fund value payable monthly in 
advance guaranteed for 5 years and with no escalation. To use the funds to 
purchase an equivalent annuity based on the FCA calculation methodology (to be 
consistent with the valuation of the lost scheme benefits) would require a total 
amount now of £157,892.80 and £268,877.89. Therefore, the fund value on which 
the calculations are based is this higher figure. The GAR adjustment only applies to 
75% of the fund, the balance being the maximum 25% which may be taken as tax 
free cash.
The combined value of the FSAVC plans was £426,770.69  this was reduced to 
£344,949.49 to remove the value of the contributions paid outside of the liability 
period (before February 1994) and to recognise the maximum available headroom for 
added years which represents 82.24% of the full contributions. 
Wesleyans letter explained that the combined adjusted value of the FSAVC plans was 
higher than the value of the prospective lost added years (£241,274.94) that Mr K would 
have bought in the OPS by a margin of £103,674.55. As a result, no compensation was due 
as its calculations showed that Mr K hadnt incurred a financial loss.
Mr K didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.
In summary, Mr K is concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss assessment. 
He doesnt think its fair to apply the GAR to a notional fund value and believes this goes 
against the loss calculation rules as set out in the FSAVC Mis-Selling Review Guidance.
Ombudsmans provisional findings
This complaint has been upheld on the basis that Mr K would have bought added years if 
the FSAVC plan hadnt been mis-sold. During the relevant period, Mr K had some part time 
service, he didnt go on to buy added years in the NHS Pension Scheme and he is yet to 
take the benefits of his FSAVC plans.
The FSAVCs have a GAR attached and Wesleyan has included the value the GAR adds 
to Mr Ks plans in its calculation, which has determined he has made a gain of over 
£103,000 as a result of taking out the FSAVC plans.
The main point that is in dispute in this complaint is that Wesleyan has included the value of 
the GAR in its calculation.
Should the value of the GAR be included?
The GAR on Mr Ks FSAVC plans allows him to take his benefits in a similar format to 
those provided by the added years arrangement insomuch as it can provide a guaranteed 
income. And Mr K can choose for the annuity to increase in line with RPI and provide a 
50% spouses pension. Because of this, Im satisfied the value of the GAR can be taken 
into account when a complaint is upheld on an added years basis.
I have previously addressed the arguments raised by Mr Ks representative regarding the 
inclusion of the GAR and Ive explained my reasons for believing that it is not unreasonable 
for it to be included. In the interest of concluding this matter sooner, I dont intend to repeat 
that reasoning here. But I can of course provide this, should it be necessary.
However, the GAR Wesleyan has based its calculation on is a single life, level annuity 
thats guaranteed for 5 years. It has used this form of annuity because consumers that opt 
to take a guaranteed income generally take this option. But I think a fairer comparison would be to base the value on a GAR that more closely matches the lost benefits, so an 
annuity providing a 50% spouses pension, increasing in line with RPI and guaranteed for 
5 years. Its not clear at present what difference this will make to a loss calculation 
because the GAR is determined on the same actuarial basis as the one Wesleyan has 
already used in its calculations. But I think Wesleyan should rerun the calculation on this 
basis in order to determine what difference this makes. And if Mr K has taken his benefits 
since the complaint has been with this service, this will also need to be factored into the 
calculation.
In terms of the number of added years Wesleyan has based its calculation on, it has 
calculated that Mr K paid the equivalent of 4.34% of his pensionable pay to his FSAVC 
plans between the relevant period. At the time of advice, 3.57% would have secured the 
maximum number of years if Mr K had paid this until the age of 60. However, the 
contributions to the FSAVC stopped in 2013. Mr K also worked part time and had some 
service gaps during the relevant period. So Wesleyan has reduced the number of added 
years down accordingly to 3 year 63 days. Had Mr K been a member of the added years 
arrangement these factors would have impacted the number of added years he would have 
secured. So I dont think the approach Wesleyan has taken here is inappropriate in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im also conscious that Mr K paid more to his FSAVC than he would have needed to pay
towards the added years arrangement. I think its likely that, had the FSAVC not been mis-
sold, these contributions would have been directed to the cheaper in-house AVC 
arrangement. But due to legislation limiting pension contributions, this would only have been 
possible after 2006, when the pension simplification rules were introduced.
Just because Mr K would have paid less in charges to the in-house AVC after 2006, it 
doesnt necessarily mean that he has suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. I think 
Wesleyan should carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC (for 
excess contributions after April 2006 only). If it can demonstrate that the FSAVCs 
performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more than the higher charges Mr K has 
paid, then it may conclude that he has not suffered a loss as a result of these excess 
contributions being paid to the FSAVC rather than the in-house AVC. I have previously set 
out the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to make this comparison. I dont intend to 
repeat that in full here but Im happy to confirm this if either party requires clarification.
When the initial calculation was run, Mr K hadnt taken his benefits and the plan was still with 
Wesleyan. If this is no longer the case, the comparison of the FSAVC excess contributions 
with the in-house AVC, should be run up to the date the policy was transferred.
If the above calculation produces a loss, Wesleyan should complete a standard charges only
calculation on the excess contributions paid after April 2006.What if Mr K uses the GAR when he takes his benefits?
As I've said above, when the calculation was initially run, Mr K hadn't taken his benefits and I 
believe that may still be the case. So I do accept that when he does, he may opt to take an 
annuity with Wesleyan and utilise the GAR. If Mr K has also received a payment to reflect 
the higher charges he has paid to the FSAVC arrangement in respect of the excess 
contributions paid to the plan after April 2006, this could leave him in a better position than 
he would have been in, had he joined his in-house AVC. He will effectively have received a 
refund of the higher charges and hell also be benefitting from the increased value the GAR 
adds to his FSAVC fund. In these circumstances, I dont think it would be unreasonable for 
Wesleyan to take account of any payment it makes now as a result to the higher charges 
when the benefits are taken, should Mr K use the GAR.
Mr Ks final submissions 
Mr Ks representative has said that it is in agreement with the main conclusion, with the 
exception of the following points. 
These historical Medical Sickness Society policies, that Wesleyan is using in its loss 
assessments were with profit policies up to approximately 1998. The pre-1998 
schemes did not specify the charges associated with the policies. Bulletin No. 4 
published after the FSAVC Review Guidance was issued, was intended to be specific 
to highlight how such policies should be dealt with when charges were not detailed in 
the policy documents. Wesleyan however use 1.5% in their loss calculations which 
undercalculates the loss. 
It has also questioned why on a previous case Ive said that the GAR shouldnt be 
included yet Im saying its not unfair for Wesleyan to include it in this case. 
With regards to the advice requirement, it is common practice for all Pension Firms to 
automatically advise clients to take advice when looking at their pension options at or 
nearing retirement; accordingly we believe it would be a more balanced approach in 
terms of treating their customers fairly, if Wesleyan gave the client a choice based on 
informed information, whereby they perform a loss calculation without the use of the 
prospective potential value of the GA, and let the consumer decide whether they 
want to accept the compensation and forego their guaranteed annuity options, 
always after first seeking professional advice.
Wesleyans final submissions
Wesleyan has said that it agrees with my findings. Its happy to recalculate the value of the 
GAR benefit attaching to the FSAVC Plan using an annuity rate on an equivalent but it 
expects this approach to significantly increase the value of the GAR benefit and hence the 
plan value used within the loss assessment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges on FSAVC plans
Mr Ks representative remains of the view that the 1.5% annual management charge, or 
reduction in yield (RIY), that Wesleyan uses in it charges only calculation for the type of 
FSAVC plan that Mr K has, is unfair.  It thinks that this is not in line with the FSAVC review 
guidance, in particular Bulletin No 4, which Ive set out below.Model Guidance, Section 6 - Loss assessment. This section of the guidance states, 
among other things, that:
Firms should establish the charges that the investor would have incurred in the in-
house AVC arrangement and those incurred on the FSAVC (Paragraph 6.17, 
emphasis added) As noted in paragraph 6.17.7 the FSAVC charges borne by the 
investor will normally be apparent.
Where details of charges are available firms should use them. However, there may 
be exceptions to this  for example in respect of certain with profits policies. Where 
details of charges are not available, firms may reasonably use Reduction in Yield 
(RIY) information calculated for product disclosure purposes as a proxy for the 
average charges. This RIY information is likely to be available within:
 essential product information (Key Features), for sales from 1 January 1995; and
 product particulars and With Profits Guides, for sales from 1 March 1990.
Firms should use product specific RIY information where this information is readily 
available, or where the firm could reasonably be expected to obtain it. ()
Firms may reasonably use a default assumption, but only where they lack details of 
the charges or RIY information ()
Where commission has been taken and annual management charge or RIY 
information is not available, it is reasonable for firms to assume that the charges 
borne by the investor for the purposes of loss assessment are 2.9% a year. This is 
based on the RIY for an FSAVC policy with contributions of £100 per month over a 
ten year term as reported in the Watson Wyatt AVC survey published in May 1999, 
see Consultation Paper 27 for details. Firms may use an alternative assumption if 
there is demonstrable evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate.
Wesleyan has confirmed that its actuaries have recently completed a piece work where they 
looked at the RIY for Medical Sickness Society Fund FSAVC plans with a range of entry 
dates, where the plans are shortly coming up to retirement. Its actuaries have found that the 
maximum RIY was 1.2% and the average was 1%. So, being prudent, Wesleyan considers 
1.5% reasonable at this point in time.
Ive thought carefully about what Wesleyan has said and whether its in line with the above 
guidance.  
The guidance states that if the RIY is unknown, or the firm lacks details of the RIY or this 
information is not available, then the default assumptions should be used. But thats not the 
case here. Wesleyan does know what the RIY is, or, it knows the range that its within. The 
guidance also allows a firm to make an alternative assumption if there is demonstratable 
evidence that the 2.9% a year assumptions is inappropriate. So overall, while accept that the 
default assumption would work in favour of the consumer, Im not persuaded that Wesleyan 
is being unreasonable by using 1.5%, when its actuaries have determined that the RIY for 
plans, such as Mr Ks is actually between 1% and 1.2%. Inclusion of GAR value
On a previous case I acknowledged that, since the introduction of the pension freedoms 
legislation, there has been a reduction in the number of consumers that opt to take a 
guaranteed income at retirement. That complaint had been upheld on the basis that the 
consumer would have joined the in-house AVC scheme if they hadnt been mis-sold the 
FSAVC. So I said that I didnt think it was fair to include the value of the GAR when 
determining whether a loss has been suffered. This was because, if the consumer been in 
the in-house AVC, their options at retirement wouldnt havent been limited to securing a 
guaranteed income. They would have had more flexibility in how they took their benefits. 
And crucially, when making a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC, that is 
made on either the basis of the fund value, or the difference between the charges. And so I 
didnt think it fair for the value of the GAR to be included. Thats not to say that the GAR on 
these plans isnt valuable, it is. Thats why I also said that Wesleyan can take any payment it 
makes now for higher charges into account, should the consumer go on to use the GAR on 
their plan. 
In the case of Mr K, both parties have agreed that he would have bought added years in his 
employers OPS had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. The added years arrangement 
would only have provided a guaranteed income, there would not have been any flexibility in 
the way the benefits could be taken. And so, I dont think its unreasonable for Wesleyan to 
base the value of Mr Ks plan on the guaranteed income Mr Ks plan can provide. The 
comparison here is being made with the guaranteed income that the added years 
arrangement would have provided and so Im satisfied that this is a fair way to make the 
comparison. 
The advice requirement for safeguarded benefits
I agree with what Mr Ks representative has said about it being common practice for firm to 
recommend a plan holder takes advice when looking at their pension options or when 
nearing retirement. But the rules around taking advice when the plan has safeguarded 
benefits valued at over £30,000, are set out under Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015. These regulations require pension scheme members who have subsisting rights in 
respect of safeguarded benefits worth more than £30,000 under the scheme to take 
appropriate independent advice from an FCA authorised adviser before:
converting safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits 
using a transfer payment in respect of safeguarded benefits to acquire flexible 
benefits under another scheme
being paid an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) in respect of their 
safeguarded benefits
If a consumer was to take this advice before taking their benefits, in order to obtain a larger 
compensation payment, I dont necessarily think this would remove the requirement at the 
point the benefits are taken, when the consumer may well have already waived their rights to 
those benefits. So I think there is the potential for this to cause issues in the future, when a 
firm is asked to give advice on something that the consumer has already waived their right 
to. But in any event, even if there wasnt an advice requirement, I still wouldnt think it was 
fair to allow Mr K to waive his right to the GAR and for the value not to be included in the 
loss calculation. As Ive said above, Mr K complained to Wesleyan that he would have 
bought added years. The comparison of the added years arrangement is based on the value 
of the benefits it can provide. So Im satisfied that the value of the FSAVC plan should also 
be based on the equivalent benefits that it can provide. I dont think this means that Mr K is 
being treated unfairly. I appreciate that Wesleyan believes its likely the value of providing the GAR will increase 
significantly, due mainly to the increasing in line with RPI option being included. But Im 
conscious that it has only run this calculation on one other case so far. And so I think it 
should still rerun the calculation on Mr Ks case, in order to see if it does make a difference 
overall to his loss.  
Putting things right
As at the date of my final decision, Wesleyan should rerun the calculation to bring it up to 
date using the most recent financial assumptions. The value of the GAR should be based on 
an annuity that provides a 50% spouses pension and increases in line with RPI. If Mr K has 
taken his benefits since the initial calculation was run, this will need to be taken into account. 
In terms of the FSAVC contributions Mr K paid after 2006, if it wishes to do so, Wesleyan 
should calculate a notional value for the excess contributions had they been paid to the in-
house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other half, the average rate from 
fixed rate bonds index. 
I've chosen this benchmark because this would have achieved capital growth with a small 
risk to the capital. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. The FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a higher return. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr K into that position. It does not mean that Mr K would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr K could have obtained from investments suited to his objective.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If the
actual value exceeds the notional value no financial loss has been suffered and it need not 
take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would ordinarily 
be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking this 
particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr K the value of the excess charges as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
As explained in my provisional findings, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Wesleyan 
to take account of any payment it makes now as a result to the higher charges when the 
benefits are taken, should Mr K use the GAR.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan
Assurance Society complete calculations as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman