DRN-3902577
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he was the 
victim of a crypto investment scam.
Mr S is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr S throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
In October 2021 Mr S said he made an online enquiry with a company (who Ill refer to here 
as M) about investing in crypto. He said hed seen celebrity endorsements for such 
investments online and was keen to learn more about how it worked to supplement his 
income. 
Mr S said he was then contacted by telephone by a representative of M (the scammer). 
Impressed by the scammers knowledge and professional deminer, Mr S said he followed 
the scammers advice to set up a Bitcoin wallet (with a company Ill refer to here as W) 
into which he made a card payment for £264.12 on 29 October 2021. The scammer then 
explained how Mr Ss money would be converted into Bitcoin and transferred out to M to 
be invested. 
Mr S said he provided the scammer with identification documents and checked Ms 
website and online reviews. He also said he checked the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) website but saw no warnings about M. And so, he was satisfied everything was 
legitimate and his money was safe. 
Mr S said the scammer then set up a trading account for him which he had password 
access to and was able to see his £264.12 payment. Mr S said he was also able to see 
Bitcoin trading information, all of which further reassured him that the investment was 
genuine. Mr S said the scammer conducted trades on his behalf, but that he was able to 
participate in this via his trading account. 
Mr S said he was then contacted by another representative from M who said he was an 
account manager (who Ill again refer to as the scammer). The scammer persuaded Mr S 
to set up an account with a well-known legitimate crypto exchange platform (which Ill refer 
to here as K). Having again checked reviews for K online, and after making a test 
payment for £20 - Mr S said he was happy to set up the account. On 11 November 2021 
Mr S withdrew investment returns from his account with K of £67.33.  
Mr S said the scammer then invited him to invest circa £8,000 in the crypto-gaming market. 
Impressed with the level of return on his initial investment and having done his own 
research into this current and profitable industry, Mr S said he decided to invest £10,000.
On 16 November 2021, with the help of the scammer, and after having made another test 
payment to K for £20, Mr S transferred £10,000 from his Santander account to his account 
with K via his online banking. 
Santander blocked the payment twice and spoke to Mr S. Satisfied with the responses 
Mr S gave to its questions, Santander released the payment. 
Some weeks later Mr S decided he wanted to withdraw his profits  which looked to be in 
the region of £9,000. But Mr S said the scammer persuaded him to leave the money in his 
account as further upcoming investments would yield more profit. Mr S said he was happy 
to follow the scammers advice  but didnt want to invest any more money at this stage.
In January 2022 Mr S wanted to withdraw all his money. The scammer said this could only 
be done on the condition that Mr S pay a fee of £2,500. Mr S paid the fee on 5 January 
2022. When the withdrawal wasnt forthcoming, Mr S tried to contact the scammers  but 
was unable to do so. At this point Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
Mr S contacted Santander about the scam on 24 January 2022. And it immediately 
contacted the beneficiary bank to see if any funds could be recovered. Unfortunately, no 
funds remained. Santander didnt believe it was responsible for Mr Ss loss as the funds 
had been lost from his own account with K which it said Mr S had full control of. Mr S 
complained to Santander. 
Santander said Mr S had authorised the transactions and that it had carried out the 
correct level of security.  It also maintained it wasnt responsible for Mr Ss loss as the 
money had been transferred to an account in his own name. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He didnt think Santander had asked probing enough questions when it 
spoke to him about the £10,000 to have alerted him to the risks of crypto investment 
scams. So, he didnt think Santander had done enough to protect him. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. On listening to the 
telephone call between Mr S and Santander in relation to the £10,000 payment, he 
thought Santander had done enough to protect Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. He didnt think 
Santander went far enough in its questioning during the telephone conversation about the 
£10,000 payment. And that it shouldve probed further  not just relying on the answers 
hed provided about there being no third-party involvement. Mr S thought Santanders line 
of questioning was generic and not specific to his circumstances  and it didnt explore 
where the money was going to after it had been transferred to K. 
Mr S also said that he hadnt lied to Santander. He said that as far as he was concerned, 
he was investing for himself. And he had followed Santanders advice and checked the 
legitimacy of M on the FCA and consumer websites. But that Santanders advice to check 
the legitimacy of K was irrelevant  given K is a genuine company. 
Overall, given the obvious concerns Santander had about the £10,000 payment (having 
blocked it twice), Mr S felt it shouldve done more to protect him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mr S was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
hes been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a result. I can understand why 
hed want to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I need to decide whether 
Santander can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mr Ss loss. Overall, Ive 
decided that it cant be. Ill explain why.I should first point out that Santander had an obligation to protect Mr S from financial 
harm, irrespective of what happened to the money after if left his Santander account. 
And so, Im considering Mr Ss complaint about Santander on that basis. 
I accept the transactions Mr S made were authorised payments, even though he was the 
victim of a sophisticated crypto investment scam. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of her account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Santander acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mr S when he made the £10,000 payment, specifically whether it 
shouldve done more than it did before processing the payment  and if it had, would that 
have made a difference. I also need to decide if Santander ought to have done more than 
it has already done to recover the funds after Mr S reported the scam.
Mr S has told us he made a card payment for £264.12 on 29 October 2021. But Ive been 
unable to link that payment to the Santander account all other payments linked to the scam 
were made from. It doesnt show on his bank statement or in Santanders records. And so, 
Ive not considered this payment as part of this complaint. 
Mr S made two payments for £20 to a new beneficiary (K) on 4 and 16 November 2021. 
He then made another payment to K for £10,000 on 16 November 2021. Santander 
declined this payment twice and blocked Mr Ss account. So, Mr S telephoned Santander 
on 16 November 2021 to get the payment released.
Ive listened to that telephone call as part of my review. This appears to be the second call 
Mr S had with Santander about the £10,000 payment  and it seems a repeat of much of 
what Mr S was asked in the first telephone call  for which there is no recording available. 
Santander asked Mr S if the £10,000 was to a crypto exchange, which he confirmed was 
the case. 
Santander then explained to Mr S that criminals are posing as financial advisors and 
brokers who will appear very helpful and guide the customer through the process by 
opening the trading account and showing them how it works. But that then access will be 
blocked, and the scammers take the customers money. Santander then said to Mr S that it strongly advised him not to proceed if hed been advised by a third party. Mr S 
acknowledged what Santander had said. 
Santander then asked Mr S if anyone has been advising him. Mr S said no - this is for 
myself by myself. Santander then asked Mr S if hed been coached by anyone on what to 
say in the event the payment was stopped  to which Mr S said no. 
The focus of the telephone call then turns to K. Santander confirmed with Mr S this was 
the payee and put Ks details in the FCAs smart scam website. Santander asked Mr S 
how he found out about K to which he replied that hed known about it for a while and 
wanted to now take the step to buy Bitcoin. Mr S also confirmed that hed found out about 
K online and that he wasnt investing a pension. 
Santander confirmed it could find no scam warnings for K  but again reiterated to Mr S 
the need to be sure this a legitimate investment. And it confirmed to Mr S that K is not 
regulated by the FCA. 
Santander then spoke to Mr S in more general terms about other hallmarks of an 
investment scam and the risks around investing in crypto. This included being cold called, 
the offer of high returns, being helped by the scammer to set up the trading account and 
being shown fake evidence on returns and investments. And how it advised its customer to 
contact the company their investing with to make sure it hasnt been cloned. Santander 
said to Mr S if any of this applies to you then this is likely to be a scam. But Mr S didnt 
express any concern. 
Santander told Mr S that the beneficiary bank was not covered by confirmation of payee. 
But he said he had seen the £20 test payments had gone into his account with K so he 
was satisfied this was all working.
Santander then asked Mr S if anything it had said was raising any concerns. Mr S said no. 
It then asked if he felt under any pressure to make the payment. Again, Mr S said no.  
Santander explained to Mr S that once the £10,000 payment was made it couldnt be 
recalled. It again asked Mr S if he wanted to make the payment which he confirmed he did.
Where there is interaction between a bank and its customer in relation to a payment, 
wed expect the bank to take this opportunity to find out more about the nature of that 
payment.
Ive thought carefully about whether Santander asked the right questions during its 
interactions with Mr S to fully understand the nature of the transaction he was trying to 
make. And I do think it did enough. 
Firstly, its evident that Mr S was passed between a few different personnel at Santander 
and was asked repeated questions about the payment. But Santander apologises for that 
 and Mr S seemingly understood and accepted why the payment was blocked. He was 
engaged in the conversation with Santander and was confident in his responses. So, I 
dont think Santander had any obvious reason to doubt what Mr S was saying. 
Santander started its conversation with Mr S by alerting him to the fact scammers pose as 
brokers and financial advisors. And it asked Mr S specifically if anyone was advising him. 
Mr S mightve interpreted this question differently when he responded that he was 
investing for himself  but I think Santanders question was clearly trying to ascertain if 
there was a third party involved here  a clear hallmark of a crypto scam. This provided 
Mr S with the opportunity of explaining hed been contacted by two people from M - one of which said he was an account manager. And that trades were being done on his behalf via 
an account set up by M. Yet Mr S didnt divulge any of this information to Santander. 
Mr S has said Santander shouldve probed more deeply and not just relied on what he 
said. But I think Santander gave Mr S ample opportunity to explain the background to the 
investment. And it specifically asked him if hed been coached into what to say  which 
Mr S said he hadnt. So, I dont think Santander wouldve had an obvious reason to 
disbelieve what Mr S was saying.
I agree that at times Santander spoke in more general terms about the risks related to 
investment scams  but some of that did apply to Mr S. In particular, how fake evidence 
can be used to show investment returns, and accounts being set up (or helped to be set 
up) by the scammer.  But again, despite Santanders clear opening warning to Mr S about 
scammers posing as financial advisors  Mr S still didnt disclose the origin of the 
investment and who was advising him. 
I understand Mr Ss point about the relevance of Santanders questioning in relation to K. 
Ultimately, K is a legitimate company, and Santander, as the experts, should be aware 
that scammers often use legitimate companies as part of the scam to make the investment 
appear genuine and harder to detect. 
But I think Santanders questioning around K was detailed and relevant here  and 
reinforced what it had already warned Mr S about. Whilst it confirmed there were no scam 
warnings about K  Santander told Mr S it wasnt regulated by the FCA. It also asked 
questions about how Mr S found out about K. Mr S has told us he was advised by the 
scammer to set up the account with K. But he didnt tell Santander that  instead saying 
hed known about K for a while having found information about it online. I cant reasonably 
say Santander was at fault here. It asked Mr S a direct question designed to further tease 
out if there was any third-party behind the investment. But Mr S gave no indication that 
was the case and provided an answer to further reassure Santander he was the only 
person involved and that he knew what he was doing. 
Ive thought about whether any more probing by Santander wouldve made a difference.  I 
can tell from the conversation between Mr S and Santander that he was completely 
caught up in the scam. As Ive said above, he spoke with confidence about what he was 
doing and was very keen for the payment to be processed without further delay  which 
partly, I accept, was likely influenced by the amount of time hed spent speaking to 
Santander and the repeated questions. But Im also mindful that this prolonged interaction 
gave Mr S more time to reflect on the warnings Santander were giving  and the accuracy 
and significance of the answers he was providing. 
Mr Ss initial contact with M was because hed enquired about investing in crypto. He 
wasnt contacted out of the blue or pressured into investing  it had been his choice. He 
was also invited to invest further in the crypto-gaming market  not seemingly pressured 
into doing so. And in fact, invested circa £2,000 more than the scammer recommended. 
This all suggests to me an element of choice in Mr Ss actions and an appetite to take a 
risk, which I think increases the likelihood of him continuing with the payment regardless of 
any warnings Santander gave.
Mr S has also said that hed done checks into M,K and into the crypto-gaming investment 
opportunity presented to him by M. So again, I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve been overly 
concerned by any warnings Santander gave. There were also no regulatory warnings about 
M at the time of the scam. So, even if Santander had uncovered the existence of M 
during its conversation with Mr S and checked its legitimacy, its unlikely to have found 
anything of concern. Im also mindful that Mr S was able to access returns of his investment, which again played 
a part in him believing the investment to be genuine. He was also able to access his trading 
account and see how his investment was performing after each payment was made. And 
saw his two test payments of £20 appear in his account with K. So, to his mind, there was 
nothing obvious to be concerned about at the point he spoke to Santander.
All this suggests to me that its more likely than not Mr S wouldve proceeded with the 
transaction here  even if Santander had done more to alert him that the investment had all 
the hallmarks of a scam. I think it wouldve taken something more credible, like regulatory 
warnings about M, to have made Mr S pause and think more about his decision to invest.
And in the absence of Mr S heading what I consider to be meaningful warnings from 
Santander, I dont find it couldve done more to prevent his loss. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr S has been the victim of a 
sophisticated crypto investment scam. But I think Santander did enough to try and protect 
him. And I think any further action from Santander is unlikely to have made a difference. 
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Santander accountable for Mr Ss loss. 
Id still expect Santander to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds when Mr S alerted 
it to the scam. It could only have recovered the payment from the beneficiary accounts which 
belonged to Mr S. And Mr S has explained that he used the legitimate crypto exchange 
account to convert his funds to crypto before sending the crypto onto the scammers. So, 
Santander wouldnt have been able to recover the payments we know had already been 
moved on by Mr S. 
Nevertheless, I can see Santander contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as Mr S made 
contact on 24 January 2022. But had confirmation on 27 January 2022 that no funds 
remained. Santander acted promptly here to try and recover the lost funds and so I cant say 
it shouldve done anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman