complaint
Mrs O complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a private medical 
insurance claim. 
background
In November 2018 Mrs O made a claim for physio, and AXA provided authorisation for the 
treatment. 
Mrs O had 10 physio sessions. After AXA received the invoices, it told Mrs O it wouldnt 
cover the treatment because her physio wasnt recognised. Unhappy with this, Mrs O 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought both parties 
had contributed to the error, and recommended AXA cover Mrs Os first physio session.
Both parties disagreed with our investigators recommendations, so the matter has been 
referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says AXA will pay physiotherapists in full if it recognises them. And to call it 
before treatment starts so it can confirm if the therapist is recognised. 
Ive therefore listened to the phone call Mrs O had with AXA when it authorised her 
treatment, to see if it made her aware of this. 
AXA advised Mrs O during the call that shed need to see a recognised physio, but the 
physio wouldnt need individual recognition if they worked out of a hospital or clinic, and that 
hospital or clinic was recognised. Mrs O gave AXA the name of the physio practice but said 
she couldnt guarantee that was the name. Mrs O couldnt remember the name of her 
individual physio. AXA said it would set up the claim without the name, but asked her to call 
back when she had the name because it needed the practice to be recognised. Mrs O 
agreed to this and said she was going there later and would get the name and call AXA. 
AXA confirmed the treatment had been authorised.
Mrs O says that when she then went to her physio session, the practice advised her it would 
contact AXA on her behalf. I understand that wasnt done.
DRN-1855047I agree with our investigator that it was Mrs Os responsibility to call AXA back to let it know 
the name of her physio. Unfortunately, because she didnt do so, that meant AXA couldnt 
tell her that her physio wasnt recognised and her claim wouldnt be covered. 
Having said that, I think AXA ought to have done more during the initial phone call. I say that 
because Mrs O did give the name of the clinic. I appreciate she said she couldnt guarantee 
that was the right name (though I note it was), but I think AXA still ought to have checked. If 
it had done, it could have made Mrs O aware that that particular clinic wasnt recognised, 
and so it was particularly important for her to check the name of her individual physio, to see 
if he was recognised. And like the investigator, I think that when AXA authorised the 
treatment, it could have reminded Mrs O that this was subject to her physio being 
recognised.
As a fair and reasonable outcome, I think AXA should pay for the first session that Mrs O 
had, outside of her excess.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
to pay Mrs O for the first physio session she had. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman