DRN-2268070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Covea Insurance plc failed to ensure that proper repairs were done to 
their car and provided poor service after they made a claim on their motor insurance policy 
What happened
After a non-fault accident in April 2019, Mr and Mrs Os car was repaired by one of Coveas 
approved repairers and was returned to them in May 2019. In January 2020 during an MOT 
assessment another garage noted that there was a major fault with the car. It said the fault 
could only have been caused in an accident and that it made the car unsafe to drive. Shortly 
afterwards, the approved repairer accepted that it should have dealt with the fault during the 
initial repairs. The car was then returned to it for rectification. 
Mr and Mrs O thought Covea took too long to collect their car and they werent happy with 
the replacement car they were given. They also thought Coveas communication with them 
was poor. They thought its offer of £200 compensation was far too low, especially given that 
they were put at risk when driving the car after May 2019. They wanted their premium to be 
returned, plus a formal apology from Covea, an investigation of the approved repairer and 
copies of documents relating to the repairs done on the car. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Os complaint. She didnt think Coveas 
communication with them was poor or that it had delayed unreasonably in collecting the car. 
In her opinion, £200 compensation for the poor repair was sufficient. But the investigator 
thought Covea should pay Mr and Mrs O a further £150 compensation for inconvenience, 
largely caused by replacement car issues. 
Covea didnt accept initially that any further compensation should be paid, although later it 
agreed to pay it. Mr and Mrs O thought the overall compensation was still far too low, due to 
the danger theyd been put in by driving a car that wasnt safe to be on the road. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr and Mrs O were so concerned to find that the car was unsafe, as theyd 
been driving it in that state for eight months. The consequences could have been very 
serious, and the thought of what might have happened must have been really shocking for 
them. Fortunately, nothing happened, and we cant require an insurer to compensate a 
consumer for what could have occurred. So although I understand why Mr and Mrs O were 
distressed by this issue, I think the compensation Covea offered was sufficient - and in 
responding to their complaint, Covea also offered them its sincere apologies.  
In terms of collecting the car from the garage that carried out the MOT assessment, the file 
notes show that Covea wanted to collect it the day after Mrs O reported the fault to it. That 
wasnt possible, as the garage said it didnt have the car key. Covea called both Mrs O and 
Mr O that day and left messages for them to return the calls. The key wasnt left with the 
garage for three days. The approved repairer inspected it the next day, although it appears 
that it wasnt collected for a further two days. I dont think there was an unreasonable delay 
on Coveas part in collecting the car  and meanwhile a replacement car was provided. 
Under the policy, Mr and Mrs O were entitled to a standard courtesy car, which was provided 
to them the day after they reported the fault with their car. On 15 January 2020, they asked 
for a bigger car, and the day after that Mrs O said the car was making a beeping noise 
constantly. Covea said it would arrange for a larger car to be provided - but it looks as 
though nothing further was done about that until 20 January 2020. Meanwhile, Mrs O 
stopped using the car, partly because it was too small for the family but mostly because of 
the noise. And although shed been told that Covea had called the hire firm about providing 
another car, the firm told her that wasnt the case, so I can see why Mrs O was annoyed. 
Covea told us it took time to authorise a larger vehicle  which it said it wasnt obliged to 
provide anyway - and that it had contacted the firm about the beeping noise on the day it 
was reported.  Whilst I think all those comments are accurate, the situation has to be looked 
at as a whole. A replacement car would never have been necessary had the repair work 
been carried out correctly in the first place. In that situation, I think Covea could have acted 
more quickly to authorise a larger vehicle and to minimise the inconvenience Mr and Mrs O 
faced as a result of its repairers major error. Covea has accepted that an extra £150 is a 
reasonable sum to compensate for that. I dont think it should be required to pay more.
In my opinion, it wouldnt be reasonable to require Covea to refund the policy premium, as 
Mr and Mrs O have suggested. They had the benefit of cover for the car over the whole 
period, so any valid claim made on the policy would have been covered. Covea has provided 
the repair documents Mr and Mrs O wanted and it also offered to pay for an independent 
inspection of the rectification work. In my opinion, £350 in total is a reasonable sum to 
compensate Mr and Mrs O for the overall impact on them of Coveas shortcomings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Covea Insurance plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs O a further £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman