The complaint
Mr S complains as a Director of H, a limited company, that Santander UK Plc 
withheld money from the business, closed its account and applied a Cifas marker wrongfully.
What happened
In March 2019 H's Santander business account received a payment from a third-party 
business for £39,900. The following day, Santander received information from the third-party 
business that resulted in Santander placing restrictions on the account.
Following an investigation, Santander decided to return funds to the third-party business, 
close H's account and apply a Cifas marker against Mr S's name as Director.
Mr S was unhappy with this and made a complaint to Santander on behalf of H. Mr S was 
unhappy with Santander's action as he says that neither him nor the business had done 
anything wrong. The money had originated from a point of sale card transaction which was 
carried out via chip and PIN, and he'd supplied invoices and card terminal receipts to 
support this.
Santander responded to Mr S's complaint on behalf of H saying that it wasn't going to uphold 
the complaint. It said that following information received by the third-party business it was 
obliged to suspend the account and investigate matters due to the serious nature of the 
information provided. It said that whilst Mr S had provided evidence pertaining to the 
transaction, it wasn't deemed sufficient. Santander said that it then exercised its right to 
withdraw H's banking facilities and return the funds to the third-party business.
Mr S was unhappy with this response, so he brought the complaint to our service. When 
bringing his complaint he'd additionally discovered a Cifas marker applied against his name 
by Santander as a result of its investigation into H's account. An investigator here looked into 
things and thought Santander had made an error. Whilst he acknowledged that Santander 
have the right to withdraw banking facilities and investigate concerns regarding the account, 
he thought that the Cifas marker was applied incorrectly. Due to this, the investigator 
recommended that Santander remove the marker and pay H £2000 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Santander agreed with the investigator's findings, but Mr S didn't agree. He said that due to 
Santander's actions H had lost a significant amount of money as a result and wanted the 
business to be compensated £10,000 for these losses.
As Mr S disagreed with the investigator's opinion, the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
DRN-1795664What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the evidence relating to this case, I've come to the same opinion as the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Santander has accepted the error made and removed the Cifas marker against Mr S as a 
result of its investigation into H. It has also agreed to pay the £2000 recommended by the 
investigator for the inconvenience caused.
Mr S is unhappy with the outcome of his complaint as he says that the compensation 
recommended doesn't reflect the amount of money the business has lost and sleepless 
nights caused by the error. So I must consider if the compensation offered is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must acknowledge that Mr S has indicated that he has been caused a substantial 
amount of stress as a result of the marker applied against him resulting from the account 
held by H. And whilst I sympathise with Mr S's situation, this complaint is one brought on 
behalf of H - a limited company. So I can only consider how this error has affected the 
business and not how this has affected him personally - whether that be emotionally or 
financially.
Whilst I acknowledge that the Cifas marker was placed against Mr S, it was done so due to 
the account held in the name of H. And this in turn has had an impact on the business as a 
result; so I do think that it reasonable to consider how this impacted the business.
Mr S has told our service that a considerable amount of damage has been done to H as a 
result of the marker almost leading to H's collapse. Mr S says that the application of the 
marker caused H's online advertising and sales accounts to be closed and credit 
applications made on its behalf being denied. He says that this severely impacted the 
operation and profitability of the business.
Having said this, I've asked Mr S to supply evidence that credit applications made on behalf 
of H were denied, but he's only been able to supply a personal credit report. I've also asked 
Mr S to supply evidence in support of the business suffering £10,000 in financial losses as a 
result of the fraud marker; but he has been unable or unwilling to do so. Because of this, I 
don't think it fair or reasonable to ask Santander to pay this figure to H. Nevertheless, I do 
think that the marker has severely impacted the business in its ability to operate.
Mr S says that the online accounts, which are imperative to the operation of the business, 
were closed as a result of the marker being placed. This most certainly would have caused 
the business significant inconvenience when considering it relied upon these channels to 
advertise and sell its products. Further, the size of the business and number of employees 
operating it is small, so any such disturbance to the operation of the business is likely to take 
away the valuable time of its employees to resolve the issue rather than be used in the 
general running of the business.
Whilst I acknowledge that Santander have an obligation to investigate allegations of fraud 
and take appropriate measures to avert risk, Mr S did comply with its investigation and 
supply the evidence that it requested. Whilst it is Santander's prerogative as to how it 
assesses risk and decides who it wishes to do business with, I think that it requested 
information from Mr S that was not possible to obtain. Mr S supplied Santander with invoices and card receipts showing the chip and PIN payments that were in dispute. I don't think Mr S 
could have provided any further evidence regarding H's proof of entitlement to the funds.
Putting things right
For all the reasons I've provided above, I think the errors made by Santander did cause 
significant inconvenience to H's operation. But I don't accept Mr S's claim that the business 
has suffered a financial loss of £10,000 without sufficient evidence to support this.
Considering these points, I think £2000 is a fair and reasonable amount to award H for the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay H 
£2000 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman