DRN-3112485
The complaint
Miss G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim she made on 
her landlord insurance policy, after she went ahead with repairs it authorised.
  
What happened
Miss G has a landlord insurance policy with UKI. She had taken out the landlord contents 
cover and landlord emergency cover, but not the buildings cover.
Miss G made a claim under the emergency cover, due to blockages. UKI attended on a few 
occasions. It concluded a toilet outflow pipe needed to be increased in size and a more 
powerful macerator pump was required to push the waste away.
Miss G supplied a £1,776 quote for a new macerator pump and for upgrading the discharge 
pipe. UKI told Miss G it would reimburse her up to £1,362 if she went ahead with the works. 
It noted the policy limit was £1,500, but £138 had already been deducted from the limit for 
the call out charge. The eventual repairs cost £1,296.
However, UKI later told Miss G that the repairs werent covered, and it had previously given 
her wrong information. UKI noted the policy doesnt cover repairing faulty installations or 
replacing domestic appliances (such as the macerator pump). UKI offered Miss G £250 
compensation for the poor service, which she declined.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she thought UKIs £250 offer was fair. 
Because Miss G disagreed, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The emergency cover provides 24-hour assistance for damaged, blocked, broken or leaking 
drains and/or plumbing. However, the cover excludes any incident resulting from a design 
fault or the incorrect installation, repair, modification, or maintenance of equipment or 
facilities.
The policy terms also explain UKI will carry out a temporary repair (or a permanent repair if 
this is no more expensive); or take other action, such as isolating a leaking component. 
Essentially, UKI will deal with the emergency, not the permanent repair.
Whilst the policy covers blocked drains and plumbing, in view of the terms, Im satisfied the 
cover only extends to clearing the blockage. As noted, the purpose of the cover is to deal 
with an emergency, not to upgrade systems or pipes that arent of an adequate power or 
size. 
This means Im satisfied that the works Miss G completed, arent covered. However, its 
evident she went ahead with the works on the understanding she would be reimbursed. 
Therefore, Ive considered whether UKI should honour what it told her.
On balance, I consider it likely that Miss G would have needed to have gone ahead with the 
works regardless of whether UKI had agreed to cover the cost. This is because she needed 
to resolve the ongoing issue for her tenant. Also, Miss G wouldnt have been able to keep 
relying on her emergency cover once the cause had been identified, given any incidents 
relating to faulty design or installation arent covered.
Miss G makes the argument she could have claimed on her buildings insurance policy, had 
she not been misadvised. However, shes not provided anything that shows the repairs 
would have been covered by an alternative policy; and such incidents generally arent 
covered by standard building insurance policies.
Miss G also argues she could have found a cheaper quote. However, whilst I accept that she 
may have shopped around, Ive not been provided anything to show she could have got the 
work done for significantly less.
I accept Miss G has suffered a loss of expectation and this has been upsetting for her. But 
overall, I consider UKIs £250 offer to be a fair acknowledgment of the impact the situation 
can reasonably be said to have had.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
My final decision is U K Insurance Limited should pay Miss G £250 compensation. I make no 
further awards.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman