DRN-2684236
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about Trent-Services (Administration) Limited (represented by 
Lifetime Pet Cover Ltd) (Trent-Services) setting up her pet insurance policy with the wrong 
start date. She complains a substantial part of her claim wasnt covered by the insurer as a 
previous claim had been settled in the same insurance period due to the wrong start date.
What happened
In January 2018, Miss C bought a pet insurance policy for her dog M, after finding the 
policy through a price comparison website. The policy was administered by Trent-Services.
In January 2019, upon receiving the renewal documentation, Miss C realised the policy 
renewed on 25 January instead of 8 February as shed thought. She contacted Trent-
Services about this, and it said her application from 2018 had a start date of 25 January. 
Accordingly, the renewal date was a year later. 
Miss C made a claim on the policy at the end of January 2019 and then again in July 2019. 
Unfortunately, M passed away in July 2019. The insurer settled the claims up to the policy 
limit of £4,000, leaving Miss C to cover the remaining costs. Both claims were considered 
under the renewal period.
In 2020, Miss C complained to Trent-Services and said the price comparison website had 
confirmed the quote she obtained through it had a start date of 8 February 2018. Trent-
Services said the application it received from her had a start date of 25 January 2018. It also 
said the price comparison website couldnt confirm Miss C took out one of the policies with a 
start date of 8 February 2018 she obtained a quote for.
Miss C referred the matter to our service and said she received merchandise from the price 
comparison website after taking out the policy. So, she thought she did proceed with one the 
quotes she obtained through it. Miss C also told us she received the policy documents by 
email but didnt read them through properly as she didnt have the password. She assumed 
it was the same information as that on the price comparison website.
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs concerns and concluded Trent-Services hadnt acted 
unfairly. She explained the information on the application record showed a start date of 
25 January 2018. She was also satisfied Trent-Services made Miss C reasonably aware of 
the start date in the emails it sent her following the purchase, and it provided opportunities 
for her to get in touch if there were any questions.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the matter to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Ms passing following poor health. Understandably, this will have 
been a difficult time for Miss C.
I know Miss C feels strongly about her complaint. Its important I explain my decision solely 
relates to the administration of the policy by Trent-Services, not the insurers handling of her 
claims. The insurer is a separate financial business and remains responsible for any 
concerns about claims handling.
It seems to me the crux of this complaint is whether Trent-Services set up Miss Cs policy 
using incorrect information. From what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Miss C 
found this policy when she obtained a quote from the price comparison website in January 
2018. She would have then been presented with a number of available policies to choose 
from. 
Miss C says she obtained a quote for 8 February and didnt have the opportunity to change 
this date before accepting the policy. But its important to note the sale wasnt concluded on 
the price comparison website. In my experience, once a consumer makes their choice, the 
price comparison website usually transfers them to the insurance intermediarys (like Trent-
Services) website to complete the sale. 
I appreciate Miss C doesnt recall completing a further application in addition to the quote 
she obtained through the price comparison website. But Im satisfied this is what happened 
here. I say this because in an email to Miss C, which she forwarded on to us, the price 
comparison website states it only provided her with a quote and the purchase was made on 
Trent-Servicess website. This means, she would have been required to fill in the information 
or at least check any pre-filled information was correct before the sale was concluded. 
It may well have been the case Miss C used the policy start date of 8 February when 
obtaining a quote through the price comparison website. The information Ive seen suggests 
this is what happened. But it doesnt automatically follow the same information was provided 
during the application process  even if that was the intention. Having reviewed Miss Cs 
application record, I can see a start date of 25 January 2018 was noted. Given this, 
I consider Trent-Services set up Miss Cs policy using the information it received.
Miss C has said she assumed the information Trent-Services sent her following the 
purchase was the same as that on the price comparison website. But as she was taking out 
this cover, it was her responsibility to read the information it sent and check shed taken out 
the policy correctly. Policies allow a 14-day free cancellation period precisely to allow 
consumers time to check/correct important information or change their mind if on reflection 
the terms and conditions dont meet their needs.
Ive considered what Miss C has said about not having the password to access the policy 
documents. But the email dated 20 January 2018 from Trent-Services that shes forwarded 
us provides the password information. It also invites Miss C to contact Trent-Services should 
she experience any problems opening the documents or if any changes need to be made.  
Miss C has said she already had insurance cover until 8 February 2018. But this isnt 
something Trent-Services would have known; it is a separate business to the price 
comparison website and any previous insurance intermediaries. 
I appreciate Miss Cs frustrations and understand it was most likely a genuine oversight, 
given her intentions. I also acknowledge why she feels it has had a disproportionate impact 
on her and is unfair. But having looked at what happened, I cant see Trent-Services has made a mistake or acted unfairly here.
So, although I know shell be disappointed by this outcome, for the reasons given, it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable of me to tell Trent-Services do anything further. Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman