DRN-2829795
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Amtrust Europe Limited. He isnt happy that it wouldnt 
advance a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Amtrust are responsible for it 
Ive just referred to it in this decision.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a long and drawn out claim in relation to the alleged theft of an item 
from him a number of years ago. And he asked Amtrust if he could make a claim under his 
legal expenses policy in order to take action against his local police force. This was because 
Mr M feels that a police officer was untruthful in the way they described his property as lost 
when it was in fact stolen. So Mr M feels that the police force knowingly provided false data 
which he feels has contributed to his inability to retrieve the stolen item.
But Amtrust turned down the claim. It gained legal advice about the claims chances of 
success and whether there was a valid section of cover under the policy. And it concluded, 
following the legal advice, that there wasnt any cover under the policy. Mr M maintained that 
there was cover under the data protection part of the policy for his claim and gained some 
further information to support his position. But Amtrust gained a further legal opinion and 
they remained of the view that his policy didnt offer cover. As Mr M didnt agree he 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought that 
Amtrust hadnt done anything wrong as there wasnt any cover under Mr Ms policy in order 
to advance a claim.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment as he simply wants to try and recover his property, but that doesnt mean 
that Amtrust have done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained the policy doesnt cover all eventualities and in line with most 
legal expenses policies Amtrust looked to gain a legal assessment to see if there was a valid 
section of cover and whether there was a reasonable chance of success. And that legal 
assessment, in fact Amtrust got more than one, concluded that there wasnt a valid section 
of cover. And if there wasnt any cover then Amtrust couldnt advance a claim on Mr Ms 
behalf. 
I know Mr M feels that his claim should be advanced under the data protection part of his 
policy, but the legal advice has explained why this isnt the case. And I havent been 
provided with anything, such as any counter legal advice or opinion from Mr M in support of 
his position, that would suggest that Amtrust has acted unfairly here. Insurers are entitled to 
decide what types of claims they will and wont cover and Amtrust, following legal advice, 
has explained why it cant advance a claim under the policy. 
Ive relied on the expert legal opinion in forming my view, just as Amtrust did when looking at 
Mr Ms claim and deciding there wasnt any cover. Having done so, Im satisfied that Amtrust 
acted reasonably in looking into Mr Ms claim and gaining legal advice on it. And I cant 
criticise Amtrust for following that advice. Especially as it looked to ensure that it had taken 
everything in to account when it put Mr Ms further representation across for legal advice as 
well. Thus, ensuring everything was considered under the legal assessment before deciding 
whether it could or couldnt advance the claim.
So, although I can understand why Mr M wants to advance a claim, I dont think Amtrust has 
done anything wrong in following the legal opinion it gained which said there wasnt any 
cover. I must highlight that Im not commenting on Mr Ms wider claim regarding the theft 
(which isnt under consideration here) or any complaint he may have against the police force 
involved which I understand he is advancing.
Ultimately, despite my natural sympathy for Mr M I dont think Amtrust has done anything 
wrong and so Im not asking it to do anything further. However, if Mr M gains any legal 
advice in support of his position or any further evidence, I would expect Amtrust to consider 
this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman