DRN-1247266
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that, although TSB Bank plc had agreed to extend his student account in 
2016, it hadnt actually done so. And that means its started to charge him for his account 
earlier than it should. 
What happened
Mr B opened a student account with TSB in 2012. He said he went into a branch in 2016 to 
discuss the account with TSB. It was trying to change his account to a graduate one, but he 
was still a student. He said hed provided TSB with proof, and it had agreed to extend his 
student account for a year. But he now knew it hadnt done that, instead it had changed his 
account to a graduate account without him being aware of that. 
Mr B said TSB had now told him he can only hold a graduate account for three years. After 
that he has to start paying for the overdraft facility. So TSB started charging him for this in 
September 2019. And when he told TSB about the error, it wouldnt do anything because 
hed already had three years of a graduate account.
TSB said that Mr B didnt fit the requirements for a graduate account any more. He'd held 
one for three years and that was the maximum time he could have this account. 
TSB wrote to Mr B in 2019 to say his graduate account had expired, and his account would 
convert to a classic account that summer. Mr B said then that hed previously notified TSB 
he wouldnt graduate until 2017. TSB said it had initially apologised to Mr B, but then it said it 
couldnt find any evidence to support his version of events. It said if Mr B had been into a 
branch in 2016, it wouldve expected its notes to show this, and they didnt. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said there was no evidence 
that Mr B went into a branch in 2016. And there was evidence that TSB wrote to Mr B about 
his graduate account in 2017, so he should have realised then what type of account he had. 
And because Mr B shouldve known it had changed, and didnt appear to have discussed 
this again with TSB, our investigator didnt think it was unfair for TSB to change his account 
so it was no longer a graduate account. 
Mr B said the dates must be wrong. TSB said his account was changed to graduate in 
January 2016, but he was still at university then. He studied for five years. He thought 
perhaps hed told TSB about his new graduation date in 2015, not 2016. And he didnt 
remember TSB writing to him about his account in 2017.
Our investigator asked TSB to recheck its records, because Mr B had raised concerns about 
the dates. It did that, and said it had converted Mr Bs account to graduate in 2015. But then 
it had changed it back to a student account, and told him it wouldnt change it to graduate 
until 2016. TSBs notes from 2015 also say that it told Mr B to contact it in 2016 if he was 
continuing for another year, otherwise the account would change to a graduate one. There 
were no notes from 2016 to suggest Mr B discussed this with TSB again then.Our investigator wrote to Mr B again. He set out the revised evidence that TSB had sent us. 
He said that Mr Bs meeting with TSB in 2016 about extending his student account wasnt 
documented. And our investigator said he was satisfied that letters were sent to him in 2017 
about his account status. Mr B hadnt been able to get any more evidence, and TSB would 
only have extended Mr Bs graduate account if it had made a mistake. So our investigator 
hadnt changed his mind. 
Mr B said hed told TSB of his 2017 graduation date. He wanted the case considered by an 
ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision. Mr B has since closed his TSB account. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Its unfortunate that there has been some confusion about dates in this case. I think 
TSB has now set out its position clearly. 
Mr B began university in 2012. He graduated in 2017. He says that he went into a TSB 
branch in 2016 to tell TSB that he was still at university, when it tried to change his 
account to a graduate one, and it agreed then not to do that. 
TSB now says it has a record of Mr B doing this in 2015. And it changed his account 
from a graduate account back to a student one then. 
Theres no record of Mr B going to a TSB branch again, the next year, to say that he 
was still a student. And there are records of Mr B contacting TSB about other issues.
If Mr B had gone into a TSB branch in 2016 to say that he still hadnt graduated, then 
this wouldve been his second request to retain a student account. Mr B didnt mention 
when he first complained to us that hed made this request before. And he has said he 
may have been mistaken about the dates. 
I think Mr B did go into a branch in 2015, to tell TSB that he wasnt graduating that 
year. And I can see TSB did extend his student account then. Its notes say that Mr B 
would need to come back next year if he still hadnt graduated. I think its more likely 
than not that Mr B was told this. 
Theres then no evidence from TSB to show Mr B asked it to extend his student 
account again in 2016. I think, on balance, that its more likely than not that Mr B didnt 
do that in 2016. And, because TSBs notes say that it told him hed need to ask for 
another extension in 2016 if he was still studying, to avoid his account converting to a 
graduate account, I dont think TSB did anything wrong when it changed his account 
type to graduate in 2016. 
TSB then wrote to Mr B in 2017 about his account. Those letters mentioned the 
account type. Like our investigator, I think that Mr B ought to have realised that his 
account type had changed in 2017. But, also like our investigator, I think this is unlikely 
to have made any difference at this stage. TSB has told us it wouldnt have extended 
Mr Bs graduate account unless it had made a mistake. And Ive explained why I dont 
think it had made a mistake. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB didnt reply. Mr B replied to object.
What Ive decided  and wh
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr B said hed told TSB in 2015 that he was going to graduate in 2017. And he said it never 
told him that he would need to contact it again the next year. He said that would make no 
sense. He asked if there was anything in writing to support this version of events. 
Mr B said TSB hadnt written to him to say his account had changed to a graduate account in 
2016. It didnt write to him about that until 2017. He said that there were flaws in TSBs 
processes for documenting and recording contact with them. He didnt think wed taken that 
point into consideration. The dates didnt add up. 
TSB has shown us written contemporaneous notes of its contact with Mr B. Those do say Mr 
B was told in 2015 that he would need to contact it again in 2016 if he wanted to extend his 
student account for a further year. 
Mr B says that TSB has made mistakes in how it records things. But I note that Mr B has 
shifted somewhat in what hes said to our service. At first, he said that he went into the 
branch to ask for an extension in 2016, and was told he could have it, but then TSB didnt 
give him this promised extension. Then he said that hed been into TSB the year before, and 
that he must have asked then, in 2015, for a two year extension. 
I know it can be difficult to recall things like this after some time. But I do have to take this 
slightly shifting picture into account when I decide whats most likely to have happened here. 
Ive weighed the evidence carefully, and I still think its more likely that Mr B did go into TSB 
to ask for an extension to his student account in 2015. I think that its most likely, as TSBs 
notes from the time suggest, that he was granted a one year extension and told to reapply in 
2016. And I dont think Mr B did reapply in 2016. So his account was converted to a 
graduate account in 2016.
TSB has shown us that its graduate account, with preferential terms for an overdraft, will 
only run for three years. So I still dont think it did anything wrong when it converted Mr Bs 
account to a classic account in 2019. 
Mr B said TSB didnt write to him to tell him he now had a graduate account until 2017. It 
looks, from notes I have seen, as if TSB sent him a letter about changes to his interest free 
overdraft that applied in June 2016, but didnt issue that until early 2017. If thats right, then 
that would be a mistake by TSB. 
But it seems likely to me that if such a mistake was made, that could have alerted Mr B to 
the fact that his account type had been changed earlier than he wanted. And again, theres 
no evidence that Mr B contacted TSB about this then, or at any time between 2015 and 
when his account was converted to a classic account in 2019. When Mr B initially 
complained, he just said he didnt remember those 2017 letters. So unfortunately I dont 
think this assists Mr B with the complaint that he now makes.
For these reasons, I dont think that TSB has to extend Mr Bs graduate account now. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman