DRN-4037946
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In August 2019, Mr Bs account received a credit of £7,000.00. HSBC was subsequently 
contacted by another of its customers, who sent the payment to Mr Bs account and who 
said that theyd been scammed into doing so. HSBC reviewed Mr Bs account. As a result of 
its investigation, HSBC decided to close Mr Bs account and also record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Mr B complained. HSBC looked at Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr B remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr B allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Bs 
account in August 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr B was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr B has said that he doesnt know anything about the funds that were sent to his account. 
Mr B says that he noticed the funds having gone into his account and he went into a HSBC 
branch that morning to explain that the funds werent his. 
HSBCs records of this meeting in branch suggest that Mr B said the funds were sent to him 
by a family member and that he wished to have access to them. Mr B has disputed that this 
was said and has referred to another bank removing a marker as evidence that he was a 
victim of someone attempting to commit fraud in his name. 
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But, in truth, Im satisfied that the available evidence 
shows that Mr B was more likely than not complicit in the fraudulent activity which took 
place. 
I say this because Mr B was using his account all the way up to the activity in question taking 
place. Indeed all of the funds in the account were removed shortly before Mr Bs account 
received the £7,000.00. I note that Mr B says that he didnt tell HSBC that he was expecting 
these funds. But hes confirmed that he went to his branch that morning (the note is also 
time stamped as having been completed that morning) and what HSBC has provided are its 
only records of conversation relating to Mr Bs account that day. 
Mr B has said that him not using the funds is evidence of him not having been complicit in 
the activity in question. But I dont think that this is, in itself, determinative of any possible 
involvement. I say this because HSBC received a fraud notification soon after the funds were 
credited to Mr Bs account. And as Mr B says, his account was frozen at this stage. So Mr B 
simply wouldnt have been able to transfer the funds.
Finally, Ive seen what Mr B has said about another bank removing a marker because it 
accepted an account was opened in his name without his permission. However, there isnt 
any dispute that the activity Im looking at took place on an account which Mr B opened and 
was using. Equally, without a plausible explanation of how Mr Bs HSBC account details 
might have compromised and the activity was carried out just after all of Mr Bs funds were 
withdrawn, its difficult for me to reasonably conclude that Mr B was the victim of an 
opportunistic fraudster here. 
Im afraid that all of this means I cant reasonably conclude Mr B was an unwitting participant 
here. Instead, I think that HSBC was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr B was complicit 
in the fraudulent activity which took place on his account and record a fraud marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr B and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope Mr B will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr B might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman