DRN-2952808
The complaint
Mr M complains that he has lost out because of the information Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) gave him about the pricing used for his pension fund 
switch.
What happened
Mr M had a stakeholder pension with L&G. He telephoned L&G on 24 February 2020 to 
obtain a valuation because he wanted to switch his pension fund into cash, believing that 
the stock markets were about to crash.
He phoned L&G at roughly 10am. He was informed by the first member of staff he 
spoke to that his pension was last priced at £594,831.94, using the price given at 
the close of business on the previous business day (21 February 2020).
Mr M pointed out to the member of staff that as he had called by 12 noon, this 
would be the amount of his switch. The member of staff didnt disagree. When Mr M 
said he wanted to instruct the member of staff to switch all his pension funds into 
cash, the member of staff said he could not take that instruction as he was not 
trained in investments.
Mr M was then transferred through to the dealing team at L&G to process his switch 
instruction. He told the second member of staff he had been told that his pension fund was 
priced at £594,831.94 and that would be the switch amount. The second member of staff 
did not correct Mr Ms misunderstanding. She told him new prices would be announced 
the following working day and that he would get a letter the next day confirming the switch.
The next day, on 25 February 2020, L&G wrote to Mr M to say the switch had been 
completed. It said the amount switched into cash was £587,644.64. This was based 
on prices at the close of business on 24 February 2020, the day Mr M instructed 
L&G to switch all his funds into cash. This was £7,187.30 less than Mr M believed 
would be switched. 
Mr M called L&G to complain, stating he had been told the value switched would be the 
value as at the close of business on 21 February 2020. In support of this position, Mr M 
said he made a similar transaction in 2012, which was also priced incorrectly by L&G. It 
had confirmed then that if a trade was instructed before 12 noon, the trade would be the 
price from the previous day. He said this was also confirmed to him during a call with a 
member of L&G staff in 2018.
L&G did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. L&G said having listened to the call, it was never 
confirmed that the value quoted on the phone would be the one used for the switch. It 
said for switches made before 12 noon it used the price from that same day, not the 
previous days price.
Mr M didnt accept L&Gs view and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it and partially upheld his complaint. The investigator concluded that the 
switch was completed correctly, using the price as at the close of business on the day of 
the switch instruction.
Our investigator, however, concluded that L&G should have been clearer about the 
price that would be used. The investigator took the view that, understandably, Mr M 
expected the amount switched to be higher and that for this loss of expectation L&G 
should pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said, in summary:
He asked the question whether he would get the value of £594,831.94 and L&G said 
he would. 
In 2012, the original value of the transfer was done wrongly and L&G honoured its 
policy of giving the valuation at the closing price of the previous day, his instruction 
being given before noon. 
Legal and General had changed its procedures and were not being honest about it.
L&G made the following comments, in summary:
Whilst it was unclear during the conversations, it was confirmed that staff member 1 
was not trained and the full declaration about the price used was given by the second 
staff member.
Mr Ms complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also listened to the call between Mr M and the two members of staff and looked at 
the terms and conditions applying to this stakeholder pension plan. 
Terms and conditions of the plan
The terms and conditions say this about how funds should be priced where a member is 
switching funds already invested in their plan:
The value of the units in the funds to be switched will normally be calculated at their 
respective unit prices (calculated as described in Funds and their operation on page
13) on the valuation date next following the receipt date on which your instruction 
is received by Legal & General
However, if the notification is received on a valuation date before noon, the unit 
prices will normally be those calculated on that date.
So, I think L&G has complied with its terms and conditions pricing Mr Ms switch instruction 
received before noon on 24 February 2020 at the price at close of business that same day. 
Miscommunication
Having listened to the call with the two members of staff concerned, I agree with our 
investigator, I think the information Mr M was given, or not given, was misleading. 
Mr M asked specifically for confirmation that the price being used was the close of business price from the previous day, in his case being £594,831.94. I think Mr M asked 
this in such a way that both members of staff ought to have known this was important to 
him. The following was said:
Staff member 1:
Mr M: Now its before 12pm, I can instruct you to cash it all in? 
L&G: Yes, but you dont have to do it before 12pm
Mr M: But these values are valid until 
12pm?
L&G: They are
With Staff Member 2:
Mr M: I am assured that I will get the values as at the 21st February 
L&G: Yeah so did my colleague give you the value?
Near the end of the call:
L&G: Because the switch instruction is before 12pm today, the switch will occur 
today on the same working day. So it will occur by today
Mr M: Yes
L&G: And the new prices will be announced the 
following day
Mr M: Yes
L&G: You will then receive a confirmation
Mr M: Do confirm again that Im going to get the full amount of £594 etc..
L&G: Yeah so the full amount will be put into the cash fund for you, whatever the 
amount is thats whatll go into the cash fund
Had Mr M been given clearer information, he would have been told that the price used 
would be from that day. I am satisfied that there has been some miscommunication here, 
so I have gone to consider how Mr M can be put back into the position that he would have 
otherwise been in had the error or omission not occurred. I have considered, what if 
anything, Mr M may have done differently had there not been this miscommunication. 
I think Mr M would have still proceeded with switching his pensions to cash had he been 
given clear information about pricing. From what Ive heard, Mr M wanted to act swiftly to 
switch his pension into cash to avoid stock market crashes. So, even had he been told that 
the price from the close of play that business day would be used, I dont consider that that 
wouldve made a difference to him switching his pension fund. I still think he would have 
gone ahead. So, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that L&G should pay him this extra 
money that he wasnt entitled to, because of its miscommunication. 
Other transactions
L&G say these same terms and conditions were in force in 2012.
Mr M tells me that on earlier occasions, L&G processed other transactions instructed before 
12 noon, using the previous business days pricing. Even if Mr M is right, I cant require L&G 
to act outside of its terms and conditions now, because it may have done so in the past. 
I must consider the terms and conditions that applied at the time of events, and as Ive said these made it clear that the price from the same day would apply where the instruction was 
before 12 noon. So, this doesnt change my view.
Putting things right
Mr M is understandably disappointed that the amount of money switched into cash was less 
than he believed it would be, the situation not having been made clear during the call with 
L&G. Like our investigator, I think a fair and reasonable amount to compensate him for his 
non-financial loss, a loss of expectation of a higher switch amount, is £100. This level of 
award is in line with other awards made by this service in circumstances like this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint and order Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to pay him £100 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman