DRN-3373877
The complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by a Claims Management Company, (CMC) complains that 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) rejected her claim under section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a service which wasnt necessary or delivered and it also failed to 
pursue a chargeback.
What happened
On 2 March 2020, Mrs W entered into a contract with a company I will call M to release her 
from a timeshare. The timeshare contract had previously been terminated, but she says Ms 
representative persuaded her that her name would be on the deeds and she may be chased 
for further maintenance costs. She also believed M would pursue a claim for funds spent 
with the timeshare firm of some £40,000. 
She paid M £6,540 with £1,308 being paid using her credit card via an intermediary I will call 
P. The balance of £5,2332 was made by bank transfer.
Mrs W raised a section 75 claim and TPF responded explaining that she went into the 
contract while being aware she had no timeshare that could be relinquished and that the 
compensation claim aspect of the contract  was never guaranteed. TPF subsequently 
rejected her complaint that it had mishandled her claim.
The matter was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that s75 only applied to the credit card payment, 
but as it had been made via an intermediary the required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link 
had been broken.
He also considered whether TPF should have made a chargeback request having satisfied 
himself that the claim by Mrs W had been made in time. He concluded that it was unlikely 
that there was valid basis under the chargeback rules for making such a request.
The CMA didnt agree and said that M had conned Mrs W into believing her name was on 
the deed and she needed to be removed. It had never pursued the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mrs W, but I do not consider I can uphold her complaint. There 
are two issues, firstly the application of s75 and secondly the failure to make a chargeback 
request. I would add that my role is to consider the actions of TPF and I have no remit to 
address Ms role directly. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under s 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
S 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases of 
goods or services. Under s 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider 
of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Our investigator has set out very clearly the that by making a payment to P which then paid 
M the required DCS link had been broken. I agree with his analysis and conclusions. I 
appreciate Mrs W may well be frustrated at what seem to be a technicality, but I cannot ask 
TPF to operate outside the legal requirements of the CCA.
The second issue is whether a chargeback should have been made. Chargeback is a 
process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It allows customers 
to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've 
paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback a guaranteed 
method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the bank feels 
that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
There is no question that TPF was not time barred from making a chargeback. However, it 
wasnt obliged to make one if it didnt think it was likely to be successful. Having reviewed 
the contracts and the background to these I agree that the chances of success under 
chargeback rules was remote. 
Our investigator has set out the relevant details of the agreement into which Mrs W entered. 
I do not consider Mrs W was offered a guarantee of success. In fact, the contract is very 
loosely worded it places little onus on M to do very much and it only agrees to spend up to 
12 months on any claim. 
It did contact the timeshare firm to arrange for the cancellation of the contract which had 
already been ended. This implies, at the very least, that it was uncertain as to whether the 
timeshare contract was still in place. 
I am satisfied that Mrs W was aware the contract had ended and it seems reasonable to 
conclude that her aim was to obtain compensation from the timeshare firm. I recognise that 
the CMC says she was conned and misled by Ms representative and it did virtually nothing 
for the payment it received. I understand that view and I have a great deal of sympathy with 
it, but I have to decide if TPF responded fairly to Mrs Ws claim. Given the rules which apply 
to chargeback and which are not in the gift of TPF I cannot say that it was wrong not to 
pursue a claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman