DRN-1979945
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was incorrectly charged interest while he had a promotional offer on 
his credit card with MBNA Limited (MBNA) and the terms and conditions of the credit card 
were only made available to him after he made a complaint. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with MBNA which had a promotional offer of 0% interest on 
balance transfers and card purchases. Mr M says that the offer was until May 2021 but 
noticed he had been charged interest on his credit card statements. Mr M contacted MBNA 
and was told the promotional offer was only available for purchases made within the first 60 
days of opening the account. Mr M says his credit card statements show the promotional 
offer was still available to him. 
MBNA sent a copy of the terms and conditions of the credit card which highlighted the terms 
of the promotional offer, but Mr M says this was the first time he had received these terms 
and conditions and his credit card statements should reflect the same information.  He said 
he was unable to access this information from the MBNA website and relied on his 
statements to show what interest rate he was paying.
MBNA says Mr M would have seen the terms and conditions when he applied on-line and he 
was also sent this document with an accompanying welcome letter which also details the 
terms of the promotional offer. MBNA felt they had done nothing wrong in applying the 
charges to Mr Ms credit card account. 
Mr M was unhappy with MBNAs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the available information but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as he 
felt Mr M would have received the welcome letter and terms and conditions when he 
received his credit card, and these stated that the promotional interest rate offer was for the 
first 60 days from opening the account. The investigator felt that MBNA had acted fairly 
when applying the interest.
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether MBNA acted fairly when charging 
interest for purchases made on Mr Ms credit card and whether they had made available to 
Mr M the terms and conditions that applied to the promotional interest rate offer. 
I can understand that it would be frustrating for Mr M to see interest charges made to his 
credit card account when he believed a promotional 0% interest rate was still available to 
him. I have considered this point and I can understand Mr M might have misunderstood this 
when looking at his credit card statement solely. I think the confusion here lies with the fact 
that Mr M is looking at the rate of interest on his monthly statement and not the terms of the 
promotional offer to which this relates. 
Mr M says that MBNA state on their website  to check your credit card terms and conditions 
or your latest statement to understand the interest rate youre being charged. 
I have considered Mr Ms point here and the credit card statements show the interest rates 
being  charged both as standard rates on the first page and later on in the statement under 
the heading breakdown of balance the interest rates of the promotional offer. So, while the 
rates are correct here as the website Mr M refers to, this isnt the terms of the promotional 
offer as these are individual and would depend when the offer was taken up in each case. I 
am satisfied that the terms of the promotional offer are something I would expect to see in 
the terms and conditions of the credit card.  MBNA says that the details of the promotional 
offer were contained in the  terms and conditions when Mr M opened the credit card account 
on line and were also in the welcome letter accompanying the credit card when the account 
was opened. 
I can see from the statements provided, that Mr M benefitted from the 0% offer for the 
balance transfer and purchases made within the first 60 days of the account opening and 
would have continued to have benefited on those transactions until May 2021, if he hadnt 
repaid these amounts and subsequently closed his account. I am satisfied that MBNA have 
acted correctly when displaying under the breakdown of balance on Mr Ms credit card 
statement the 0% interest rate until May 2021 as this rate relates to the transactions made 
within the promotional 0% interest rate period.  Future credit card statements showed the 
interest rate as standard when Mr M had made purchases post the first 60 days indicating 
this was now outside the promotional offer.
Mr M says that he never received either the welcome letter or the terms and conditions, and 
says the latter was only sent to him after he complained to MBNA and this is an important 
element of Mr Ms complaint. I have seen a copy of the welcome letter addressed to Mr M 
which would have been sent with the credit card when the account was opened, so while Mr 
M says he didnt receive this, on balance, given he received the credit card I am satisfied he 
would have also received the welcome letter. It is worth mentioning when Mr M applied on-
line for the MBNA credit card, he would have also electronically signed an application form 
containing the terms and conditions. 
I have looked at both of these documents and the welcome letter states that This offer 
applies to any transactions made before 26 March 2019. The terms and conditions section 
C.5 state The promotional rate for card purchases only applies to transactions made within 
60 days from the account opening date.
While a credit card statement is one method of understanding what is owed and interest 
rates applicable I cant see that this is the sole method for Mr M to understand the conditions 
applying to a promotional offer and it is the responsibility of all consumers, including Mr M, to read the terms and conditions relating to the promotional offer and I am satisfied these were 
made known to Mr M, for the reasons I have already stated. 
Mr M says that he couldnt access the credit card terms and conditions online, although 
given the first amount of interest was charged in June 2019 he did have the opportunity at 
that point to contact MBNA to question this, if he wasnt clear why he had been charged. In 
fairness to MBNA, they did agree, as a gesture of goodwill, to waive the last months interest 
charges - although they had no obligation to do so, so I cant say they have acted 
unreasonably here. 
While I understand  Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking 
anymore of MBNA here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman