DRN-3260585
The complaint
Mr F complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) provided an unfair 
settlement under his kitchen appliance cover.
What happened
British Gas inspected a fault on Mr Fs tumble dryer, but British Gas were unable to fix the 
fault. It said the parts required to fix the dryer had been obsolete for five years or more. Mr F 
was unhappy as hed been paying for cover on his dryer for this time, so he wanted this 
refunded.
To put the situation right, British Gas covered the total cost of a new tumble dryer, in addition 
to covering the cost of removing the old appliance and installing the new one. British Gas 
also paid a £60 goodwill payment for the inconvenience.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought British Gas had been fair, 
as it provided Mr F with a better outcome than it was required to do as set out in its terms 
and conditions. Mr F disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have checked to understand what British Gas obligations were required to do under the 
policy in the situation that has been described. The terms and conditions state whats 
covered:
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less to
replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier and make
the following contribution based on their current retail selling price:
-100% if your appliance is less than three years old
-30% if your appliance is three years old or more
The policy sets out that in the situation described, that British Gas is obligated to pay a 30% 
contribution to a new tumble dryer. As British Gas has provided an outcome for Mr F that is 
far better than the terms and conditions dictate, I think it has acted fairly in the circumstances 
of this complaint. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this maybe frustrating to Mr F, but unfortunately, it wouldnt be possible or 
realistic for a company such as British Gas to track the availability of every part, for every 
appliance thats insured for its customers. Its Mr Fs responsibility to make sure the policies 
he takes out are suitable for him.
Not all parts of the appliance wouldve been obsolete, and these wouldve been available to 
Mr F under his policy if hed made a claim and these parts were needed. So, I cant 
reasonably say he hasnt benefited from having the policy in place. Therefore, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask British Gas to refund the premiums that hes paid.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman