DRN-3241267
The complaint
Mrs R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia, is intentionally 
preventing her from accessing her accounts and/or denying that they exist. 
Mrs R says she holds various accounts and wants access to her money. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Britannia provided a screenshot of several accounts previously held by Mrs R which 
are now closed. 
Some of the accounts were held with or for the benefit of another person, those 
accounts cant be looked at without the other persons permission. So, for the 
purposes of data protection, shes only considered the accounts held in Mrs Rs 
name.
Although Mrs Rs concerned about the involvement of her local council  because 
she spent some time in receivership  its not a business that we can consider a 
complaint against because its not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (the 
FCA).   
The screenshot provided by Britannia showed the following accounts in Mrs Rs 
name: 
oInstant access ISA. Opened in 2003 and closed on 24 September 2007. 
Reason given for closure: A cheque was made payable to the directorate of 
social services & housing.
oOne-year fixed-rate bond. Opened in 2008 and closed on 25 June 2009. 
Reason for account closure: the money in the bond account was transferred 
to a maturity saver account.
oMaturity saver. Opened in 2009 and closed12 December 2009. The money 
was paid into another Britannia account that Mrs R held with another 
individual.
oThree year fixed-rate bond. Opened in 2011 and closed on 11 March 2011. 
Reason for closure: the proceeds were paid out to Mrs R in a cheque. 
oFlexible saver. Opened 2011 and closed on 22 December 2015.  Reason for 
closure: Cheque sent to social services deputyship. 
The information provided showed that the proceeds of two accounts  the fixed-rate 
bond and maturity saver  were paid into two other accounts held with Britannia. 
In 2011, Mrs R surrendered a three-year fixed-rate bond, and a cheque was paid to 
her in March 2011 upon closure of the account. 
Documentation provided showed that Mrs R was under receivership in September 
2006 and April 2011. The Court of Protection had given social services authority to 
manage Mrs Rs finances during these periods. So, Britannia hasnt done anything 
wrong by actioning requests made by social services during these times. 
Mrs R says she was told that Britannia didnt hold any accounts for her. But based on 
its record of contact since 2017 (when the receivership came to an end), the only 
contact she had was through her CMC in 2021, asking for a list of accounts which the 
Britannia provided. 
In the circumstances, she cant say that Britannia has done anything wrong. 
In short, it correctly closed the five accounts, either because the account matured or 
because the funds were transferred to another account or withdrawn by someone 
authorised to do so. 
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, she said:
Her MP isnt happy with the investigators view. 
Its our job to help her get her money back from Britannia. 
She wants the investigator to contact the Public Services Ombudsman  for her area 
 on her behalf, to complain about her local council.  
She hasnt received a cheque in relation to one of the accounts. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. Shes satisfied that all the accounts previously held in Mrs Rs name with Britannia are 
now closed. On the face of the evidence, she also satisfied that Mrs R received the cheque 
in question. Despite what Mrs R says, shes seen a letter in her handwriting confirming she 
received the cheque. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs R says, Im unable to safely 
say that Britannia behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mrs Rs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Im also sorry about her ongoing health issues, Im 
aware that shes going through a lot in her life currently. 
Mrs R has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mrs R, and Britannia, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
Im aware that theres much background to this case thats not relevant to the issues I need 
to make findings on in this complaint. Im also aware that Mrs R has similar complaints 
against other financial institutions that Im unable to comment upon in this decision. 
I note that documentation provided shows that Mrs R was under receivership in September 
2006 and April 2011, although its not clear if this was two separate occasions or a single 
continuous episode. I also note that the councils last court appointed deputyship  awarded by the Court of Protection  ended as of 1 June 2017, following a request by Mrs R to take 
over the management of her own financial affairs. 
In this decision however, Im only considering the actions of Britannia  in relation to the 
accounts that are in Mrs Rs name  and not the actions of any third-party business or 
institution such as the council or social services. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs R says, I think its likely that 
Britannia was only following instructions in relation to moving funds and/or making payment 
during the times that Mrs R was under receivership. 
In other words, on balance Im satisfied that Britannia was only acting in line with instructions 
received from authorised parties, be it Mrs R or the council/social services. Im mindful the 
Court of Protection had given social services authority during the relevant period, to manage 
Mrs Rs finances, therefore Britannia wasnt able to refuse its instructions, otherwise it would 
be in direct breach of a court order.     
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Britannia was acting of its own volition, and without valid 
instructions  any suggestion that it was, is highly unlikely. Therefore, in the circumstances 
and on balance, Im unable to say that Britannia behaved unreasonably or that it was/is 
deliberately keeping Mrs R from accessing her accounts. 
If Mrs R has an issue with the legality of the instructions received by Britannia, and in 
particular the actions of the council/social services, its something that she may wish to 
consider against these parties directly. 
As the council/social services arent regulated by the FCA, its actions are not something that 
Im able to consider. Im aware that Mrs R has been told that she can complain to the Public 
Services Ombudsman if thats what she wants to do. I note the investigator has offered to 
email her the contact details, but unfortunately for Mrs R the investigator cant act on her 
behalf. 
I appreciate that Mrs R might be a little unsure of whats happened  I note she maintains 
she didnt close the accounts  but I cant say that Britannia has done anything wrong by not 
communicating with her and/or seeking her permission regarding the instructions it received 
through the Court of Protection. 
Like the investigator, Im also satisfied that the relevant accounts  listed in the screenshot 
provided  detail what happened and where the money went. I dont think this means that 
Britannia deliberately denied Mrs R access to those accounts during the time that it was 
acting in line with a court order. 
The evidence suggests that the only contact Mrs R had with Britannia was in March/April 
2021, and through a CMC, when Britannia provided a list of the accounts opened by Mrs R. 
Its possible that Britannia had some difficulty locating her accounts given the numerous 
contact detail changes, but in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to safely say 
that Britannia told her it didnt have any accounts for her. 
I note Mrs R now says that she didnt receive the cheque payment in 2011 in relation to her 
three-year fixed-rate bond. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to 
safely say that she didnt. 
I note that in early March 2011 Mrs R wrote to Britannia asking it to close three of her 
accounts due to unforeseen circumstances. In late March 2011, Mrs R contacted Britannia 
again, and Im aware that she wasnt happy about it closing only one account  which was in her name  and not the two other accounts which she held for the benefit of her child. On a 
balance of probabilities, I think its therefore more likely (than not) Mrs R received the 
cheque, otherwise I think she wouldve raised an issue about not receiving it at the time.  
I appreciate Mrs R will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman