DRN-4145275
The complaint
Mr P complains that Beacon IFA Limited (Beacon) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
(PP). 
At times weve received correspondence from a third party on Mr Ps behalf, but for ease Ill 
refer to all representations as being from Mr P. 
What happened
The events are well known to both parties, so Ill only set out what I think is key to reaching 
my decision.
Mr P was a deferred member of his employers DB scheme, known as the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS). And, in March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced it would be 
examining restructuring options, including decoupling its DB scheme from the company. The 
employer and scheme trustees consulted with members about possible outcomes for their 
benefits, including transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund, or a new DB 
scheme known as BSPS2. Alternatively, members could transfer their benefits to a PP.
Mr P was concerned about what this meant for the security of his pension. He contacted 
Beacon for advice, and it gathered evidence of his circumstances. Amongst other things, 
Beacon recorded that Mr Ps preferred retirement age was 60 and that he wanted to take a 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) at age 55 to repay his mortgage to allow a higher 
disposable income and because the term extended beyond age 60. In November 2017, 
Beacon sent Mr P a suitability report where it recommended he transfer the benefits from his 
DB scheme to a PP. And Mr P accepted its advice. 
In June 2021, Mr P complained to Beacon that, in summary, hed received a letter from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) saying he might have received unsuitable advice to 
transfer out of the BSPS. He asked Beacon to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
FG17/9 guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB transfers. 
In August 2021, Beacon sent Mr P its final response letter. It said Mr P ought to have been 
advised to remained in his BSPS, as he shouldnt have been exposed to investment risk 
given he chose an investment strategy suited to a cautious investor and had a low capacity 
for loss. Beacon said that while it considered using FG17/9 guidance to redress this, it 
instead decided to place money in an escrow account with the aim, combined with the value 
of his PP and based on growth assumptions, of Mr P purchasing an annuity at age 60 
sufficient to replicate scheme benefits. And it calculated this as £56,112.01, although it later 
said it based this on what Mr P would have received in the BSPS rather than the BSPS2. 
In September 2021, unhappy with Beacons final response, Mr P brought his complaint to 
our Service. He said it made more errors than just its assessment of his attitude to risk. And 
that hed like it to calculate redress as per FG17/9 guidance, as buying an annuity at 60 is 
more restrictive than what his options would have been had he remained in the BSPS. 
One of our Investigators looked into it and said it isnt in dispute that Mr P was given 
unsuitable advice, or that he would have otherwise remained in his DB scheme and 
transferred to the BSPS2. He said Beacon should calculate redress in line with FG17/9, as 
this leaves Mr Ps options open rather than having to purchase an annuity. And that Beacon 
should pay Mr P £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
 
In October 2021, Beacon offered to pay an additional sum into escrow to resolve any 
concerns about a shortfall, while also inviting Mr P to decide which redress option hed 
prefer. It went on to gather information and calculate redress based on FG17/19 guidance, 
but used assumptions as it couldnt obtain the full split of what his BSPS2 benefits would 
have been. And, in July 2022, it offered to pay Mr P redress of just over £6,000, as well as 
the £300 in compensation recommended by our Investigator. 
In response, amongst other things, Mr P was unhappy Beacon took nine months to do the 
calculation. And that, after initially being done in June 2022, this was calculated again in July 
2022 after the post retirement discount rate increased on 1 July 2022. Mr P said redress had 
drastically reduced due the impact of inflation on discount rates. And that Beacon hadnt 
included ongoing advice charges, when he was paying 0.6% until November 2021 when it 
stopped charging this fee. 
Our Investigator said the calculation should use the most recent assumptions, regardless of 
how long the process took. And that while Beacon stopped charging Mr P ongoing advice 
fees during the complaint process, it should assume these would continue in the calculation 
to compensate him for the fact he wouldnt have incurred these if he hadnt been advised to 
transfer. So he said Beacon should recalculate the redress. 
In August 2022, Beacon said Mr P had showed an interest in having a review in         
January 2022, which it offered through its sister business for £500 per year, but he wasnt 
prepared to pay this and hasnt appointed another adviser. So Mr P became a self-investor 
and including an ongoing adviser charge wasnt appropriate. Although it said it would add 
£500 per year to the calculation to age 60, given Mr P intends to retire then. It said that 
despite   Mr Ps early retirement intention it still used age 65 in the calculation, when redress 
would otherwise have likely be nil. And that if a different ongoing adviser charge is used then 
Mr P will be over compensated. 
Mr P said he didnt accept this offer. He maintained that Beacon should include ongoing 
adviser charges in line with FG17/9. And he suggested it do two calculations, the first until 
the earliest he could have retired from the BSPS2 without penalty and the second to age 65. 
He said the first could be an amendment to the July 2022 calculation, and the second an 
amendment to the June 2022 calculation based on assumptions as of 1 April 2022. 
Our Investigator said that while the ongoing adviser charge should be included in Beacons 
calculations, he didnt think it ought to use assumptions that are now out of date. And he said 
that a retirement age of 65 should be assumed in the calculations in line with FG17/9.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred for a decision. 
In August 2022 the FCA launched a consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress 
guidance (CP22/15).
Mr P appointed a new financial adviser who hed pay an annual ongoing charge of 0.85% to. 
But Beacon said it only accounted for 0.5% ongoing adviser charges in its calculation, as the 
FCA said this was reasonable in CP22/15. And it offered to pay Mr P £250 in compensation. In November 2022, the FCA published policy statement PS22/13 summarising the changes 
to its redress methodology following the consultation, which would come into force on           
1 April 2023. And in February 2023, Beacon again offered to carry out new calculations 
including 0.5% ongoing adviser charges that it said was in line with PS22/13. 
Mr P said the current position is that ongoing adviser charges are uncapped and new FCA 
guidance doesnt come in until 1 April 2023. And that if this should already be adhered to 
then Beacon also needs to account for new advice costs. Mr P also said Beacon should just 
amend its original August 2021 calculation to be in line with FG17/9. 
Our Investigator said that the cost of new advice wasnt payable in Mr Ps circumstances. 
And that, in any case, Mr P wanted redress to be calculated in line with FG17/9 as it 
currently stood which required Beacon to use actual ongoing adviser charges. He thought 
the calculation should be updated, but suggested the parties wait for an Ombudsmans 
decision.  
In mid-February 2023, Beacon carried out new calculations anyway to age 65, based on 
what it already knew of Mr Ps fund value as of 1 July 2022. It said that the values, even 
when accounting for the different adviser charges, were all lower than Mr Ps actual fund 
value which shows he hadnt experienced a loss. It offered Mr P £1,000 in compensation 
though to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. And Mr P said he 
wanted to wait until wed been through the calculation before accepting this.  
The FCA went on to develop a calculator to establish redress due under the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. And our Investigator let the parties know the FCA is encouraging 
businesses to use this for non-scheme cases too. And that the Ombudsman might require 
Beacon to use this. So he asked Beacon to do so, and for the parties to let him know if they 
didnt consider this appropriate and why. 
Beacon offered to do this. But it said the calculator only allowed it to calculate redress on          
1 April 2023, so Mr P would need to evidence his fund value as of that date. Otherwise it 
would complete the calculation using the illiquid fund method, using the last known 
valuation. 
Mr P said that while he initially came to us as Beacon hadnt followed FG17/9, as well as 
because it hadnt calculated redress correctly, he feels like the errors and time taken has 
worked in its favour. He said its offer has reduced from around £56,000 due to inflation and 
interest rates, as well as a recalculated discount rate. Mr P said bulletins from the Pension 
Review era, which havent been specifically revoked by FG17/9 or legislation, are clear 
about the impact of delay. And that as hes lost out due to Beacons maladministration and 
non-adherence to rules, it ought to carry out a calculation using the summer 2021 figures.
Our Investigator said that if things have moved in Beacon's favour, this is likely because of 
the effects of changes in market conditions on the calculation. He said that, ultimately, the 
calculation is intended to ensure (so far as possible) that Mr P is able to purchase equivalent 
retirement benefits to those the scheme would have provided. And that as the cost of 
replacing those benefits changes over time, the redress figure was also likely to change.
In May 2023, Mr P said that he might get legal advice, as he should be able to request to 
use the assumptions where an adviser wilfully delayed paying compensation. 
We didnt receive anything further from Mr P. And the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that there is no dispute the advice Beacon provided to Mr P was unsuitable. 
Beacon has agreed that it is required to put things right for Mr P by carrying out a loss 
assessment in line with the regulators guidance. What remains in dispute here is whether 
the compensation Beacon has offered to Mr P for the unsuitable advice is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. However, for completeness, I agree that the advice 
provided to Mr P was unsuitable and will briefly set out my reasons for this.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN); the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) and the FCAs handbook rules on how firms should deal with
complaints (DISP). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Beacons actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Beacon should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate  that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im in agreement with Beacon that the advice provided to Mr P 
wasnt suitable.
Beacon acknowledged in the suitability report that the critical yield at Mr Ps desired 
retirement age of 60 was unlikely to be attainable in light of his risk profile. And I agree that 
this meant Mr P was unlikely to be able to replicate or exceed the benefits available to him 
through the BSPS if he transferred out to a PP.
Furthermore, in Beacons response to the complaint it agreed that it didnt think that giving 
up a guaranteed income was suitable for Mr P when he had a cautious attitude to risk, a low 
capacity for loss and limited investment experience. I agree with this analysis and as there 
were no other compelling reasons that wouldve otherwise meant that transferring out of the 
BSPS was suitable for Mr P, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer out was unsuitable. And that instead of transferring out, Mr P shouldve been advised to join the BSPS2. As such, it is 
fair for Beacon to compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice according to the regulators 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice.
Does Beacons redress offer fairly compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice?
There has been considerable correspondence about Beacons redress offers including, for 
example, the calculation method it used and what it ought to take into account, such as what 
retirement date and ongoing adviser charge to use. 
Beacons most recent calculation is based on Mr P taking benefits from his DB scheme at its 
normal retirement age of 65, which Mr P has said it should have done from the outset. So it 
seems both parties now accept Beacon should use age 65 in its calculation. For 
completeness though, I think this ought to be based on Mr P taking benefits from BSPS2 at 
age 65. From what I understand, Mr P hasnt yet retired or taken an annuity and I havent 
seen anything to suggest he has concrete plans to do so before age 65. And, while it 
appears Mr P enquired about when he could take benefits from his PP to pay for his childs 
education, I dont think this shows he would have taken benefits early from BSPS2. 
Ultimately Mr P is in a different position as a result of Beacons advice, so his actions now 
arent evidence of what he wouldve done had he been advised to remain in the DB scheme.
Taking advantage of the rules relating to drawdown PPs  being the ability to take up to 25% 
tax free upon turning 55 without needing to draw an income and leaving the remainder 
invested  isn't something Mr P could have done had he transferred to the BSPS2. If Mr P 
took a PCLS payment at age 55 from this then he would have had to take a regular income 
at the same time, which would be significantly reduced compared to what he could receive at 
65. So I think its unlikely Mr P would have taken a PCLS at age 55 from the BSPS2 had he 
been advised to join it. Mr P was still working then, I havent seen anything to suggest he 
needed another regular income and taking one would have left him worse off in retirement. 
I note Mr P told Beacon at the time of the advice that he wanted to retire at age 60 and take 
benefits from age 55 to repay his mortgage. But most people, when asked, would say they 
would like to retire early. But in reality, this often means a significant drop in income that 
would reduce their spending power and lifestyle choices, so most choose to continue 
working. That seems a more likely prospect for Mr P, given it seems he had a significant 
disposable income to pay down his mortgage in the meantime should he wish. Also, at the 
time of the advice Mr P was around 11 years away from age 60 and 16 away from age 65, 
during which his plans could change. So I don't think he had concrete plans to retire at 60. 
It follows that I think Beacon should compensate Mr P for unsuitable advice, in line with the 
FCAs rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. This should be 
based on Mr P taking benefits from the BSPS2 at age 65. And, when carrying out the 
calculation, I expect Beacon to consult the FCAs calculator user guide and to follow the 
technical report, which explains how it should input the current ongoing adviser charge and 
what amount it should use. 
I understand Mr P is concerned about the time Beacons taken to carry out what he says are 
appropriate redress calculations to date. Hes said this has impacted on him, as its offers 
have reduced as time has gone on. And most recently, the calculations have shown he 
hasnt experienced a loss due to the changes in market conditions, rates and assumptions 
during this time. Mr P said this has worked in Beacons favour. And that it ought to be 
required to carry out a loss calculation using figures relevant in the summer of 2021 and be 
held responsible for maladministration.While I appreciate Mr Ps position and Ive taken into account his comments, redress is 
based on the quarterly assumptions in place at the time the calculation is carried out. And as 
the latest calculation undertaken by Beacon is no longer valid, and Mr P hasnt accepted 
Beacons offers to date, I think its ultimately fair and reasonable that it carries out a new 
calculation using the most recent assumptions. The purpose of the redress method is to put 
Mr P back, as far as possible, into the position he would have been in had he not transferred 
his BSPS benefits. While the outcome of the calculation might be that Mr P hasnt 
experienced a loss, this would essentially mean he hasnt been disadvantaged financially as 
a result of the advice.
I do, however, think that Beacons caused Mr P upset and frustration by, for example, not 
calculating redress in line with FG17/9 from the outset and, once it did, not including ongoing 
adviser charges in this until later. It has most recently offered to pay Mr P £1,000 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to him though and given the above, 
I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances to make up for the impact of 
this matter on him.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Theres no dispute that Mr P 
would have option to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given, so I consider that 
most likely what hed have done. 
Beacon must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Beacon should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
As I've said above, Mr P has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Beacon should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Beacons offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Beacon may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr P 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Beacon should also pay Mr P £1,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Beacon IFA Limited to 
pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Beacon IFA Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Beacon IFA Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely Mr P can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman