DRN-3558212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited unfairly turned down their claim made 
under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have brought their complaint to this service with the assistance of a 
professional representative (SL). At times, were I consider it relevant, Ill refer to SL within 
my decision.  
In April 2014 Mr and Mrs B purchased a timeshare through a timeshare provider (Company 
A). The purchase was funded through the trade-in of their previous timeshare products 
together with a loan provided by Shawbrook. The loan was for £9269.00 and was to be 
repaid over a period of 180 months. Mr and Mrs B paid off the balance of the loan early, 
repaying the full amount in November 2014.
In July 2021 with the assistance of SL, Mr and Mrs B made a claim under s.75 and s.140A of 
the CCA to Shawbrook. They also complained that Shawbrook failed to complete the 
appropriate affordability checks ahead of providing the loan. Shawbrook said the claim had 
been made too late and it relied on the time limits set out within the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
It said the claim was time barred as it was more than six years since the sale of the 
timeshare product and more than six years since the loan to finance it had been closed.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and said he felt Shawbrook had made a 
fair claim decision. He said the claim for s.75 of the CCA needed to be made within six years 
of the date of sale. As the claim wasnt made until July 2021 Shawbrook was entitled to rely 
on the LA when turning down the claim. 
He also felt there was a time limit applicable to the s.140A claim. He said this needed to 
have been made within six years of the date that the credit agreement ended. As the 
agreement ended in November 2014 and no claim was made until July 2021, he felt 
Shawbrook had acted fairly when relying on the LA when turning down the claim. He didnt 
think there was anything to suggest that Shawbrook acted unfairly when the loan was 
offered or that it was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs B at the time of the sale.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said s.32 LA could be applied to extend the limitation 
period. They said the sale of the timeshare by Company A was sold as an investment and 
Mr and Mrs B werent aware of this fact until November 2021 when this service issued a 
decision against another finance provider who financed the same timeshare sold by 
Company A. They also said that s.14A LA should be applied with reference to the above too.
Our investigator explained why he didnt feel this changed the outcome. He explained that 
he didnt think s.32 LA was relevant. And he also explained why he didnt think s.14A LA was 
relevant as he didnt think Company A owed Mr and Mrs B the duty of care needed to give 
rise to a claim under this provision. 
Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to 
me for final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive taken account of the law, regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of good industry practice, when making my decision. I also must think about what is 
material to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. So although Ive considered everything 
thats been provided on this case, Ive only addressed the points I consider relevant to this.
Mr and Mrs B have brought a claim under both s.75 of the CCA and s.140A of the CCA. Ive 
considered each of these in turn and whether Shawbrook has made a fair claim decision.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs B have said the nature of their timeshare and its benefits were misrepresented 
by Company A. However, under s.9 LA, they had to make a claim within six years of when 
they entered into the credit agreement  this was April 2014. This is because this is the point 
in time when they say they would have lost out as a result of relying on false statements of 
fact.
Mr and Mrs B didnt bring their claim until July 2021. This is outside of the time limit set out in 
the LA and because of this, I dont think Shawbrook has made an unfair claim decision when 
it said the claim was brought too late.
The claim under s.140A CC
Although only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, it is 
relevant law and Ive considered this when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
S.9 of the LA also applies to s.140A CCA. This sets out that Mr and Mrs B would need to 
have made a claim within six years of the date when the credit ended. It looks at the fairness 
of the relationship between the debtor and creditor arising from a credit agreement, taken 
with any related agreement. But once the loan is repaid in full, the agreement ends as does 
the relationship with the debtor and creditor (Mr and Mrs B and Shawbrook.)
Although this loan was due to run for 15 years, it was repaid early in November 2014. As the 
claim wasnt made until July 2021, it was outside of the time limit that applies and was 
brought too late.
Could the time limit be extended? 
SL on behalf of Mr and Mrs B have made a number of points which they feel demonstrate 
the limit should be extended for s.140A. Ive considered these in turn below, but I dont think 
there is anything under the provisions quoted or arguments made that demonstrates the time 
limit could be extended under s.140A.
Our investigator considered s.32 of the LA. This states that in the case of fraud, concealment 
or mistake, the limitation period can be extended as the limitation period only starts to run 
from the point when the claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake. He thought Mr and Mrs B would have been aware of any breach of this shortly after the time they went 
ahead with the purchase. And in any event, he didnt believe the problems highlighted could 
amount to fraud, concealment, or mistake.
SL has argued that a recent decision from this service on a similar product to the one Mr and 
Mrs B purchased from Company A is the point in time that they realised the timeshare was 
sold in breach of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (HPREC 2010). This was concealed from them previously by Company A 
and they feel the time limit should be extended from this point. 
I dont agree. Mr and Mrs B with the assistance of SL first raised their claim with Shawbrook 
in July 2021, ahead of the decision now quoted being issued. SL argued a number of points 
which they feel showed the timeshare to have been misrepresented. This included the  
points for the timeshare being considered and sold as an investment. They also highlighted 
that they felt the product had been sold as an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme 
(UCIS) and this in turn was unfair under s.140A CCA. 
Sales documentation and slides from the presentation were provided which show, in the 
opinion of SL and Mr and Mrs B that the timeshare was sold as an investment.  Ive not been 
told that Mr and Mrs B didnt have access to this information at the point of sale or that they 
were advised to disregard what it said. It might be that they didnt fully understand how the 
timeshare worked but I dont think it would be fair to say the details of this were concealed. 
So I dont think s.32 LA is applicable here, or that the time limit prescribed under s.9 LA can 
be extended.
SL also said that it felt s.14A LA was relevant too. Our investigator didnt think this was 
applicable as he didnt believe that Company A owed Mr and Mrs B the duty of care needed 
to give rise a to claim in negligence. I agree Company A did not have this duty of care so I 
dont think s.14A LA is relevant to their claim. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that Shawbrook has made an unfair claim 
decision when it said the claim made under s.75 and s.140A of the CCA are time barred due 
to the LA.
Unaffordable lending complaint
Mr and Mrs B also feel Shawbrook failed to carry out the appropriate checks when the loan 
was taken out. Had it done this it would have realised the loan was unaffordable at the point 
of sale. Ive not been provided with anything to support that further checks would have 
demonstrated that the loan was unaffordable. Mr and Mrs B havent indicated the 
repayments became unsustainable at any point and the total borrowing was repaid within 7 
months of the loan being taken out. So Im not persuaded the loan was unaffordable for Mr 
and Mrs B and I dont think Shawbrook need to do anything else in relation to this element of 
their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman