DRN-2714506
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc made mistakes when setting up payment plans 
for her loan and credit card.
 
What happened
Mrs S has a credit card and loan with Bank of Scotland. Following some financial difficulties, 
Bank of Scotland agreed to set up a plan that meant Mrs S could make reduced payments. 
Mrs S was told the payments due under the plan for her credit card would be collected by 
direct debit. But that was wrong and Mrs S complained. Bank of Scotland apologised and 
paid Mrs S £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. Bank of Scotland also said Mrs 
S could make her payments over the phone, by faster payment or standing order. 
Mrs S had to complain again when a loan payment due under a plan was taken twice in one 
month. Mrs S also complained about messages she received concerning arrears on her 
accounts. Bank of Scotland refunded the additional payment it took. Bank of Scotland issued 
another final response and apologised for taking two payments for Mrs S loan. Bank of 
Scotland also said that the arrears messages were correctly sent because Mrs S payments 
were lower than the normal monthly payment. Bank of Scotland said if felt the original £100 it 
had paid in its previous final response was fair for the issues covered in that letter. But Bank 
of Scotland paid Mrs S £75 to apologise for the way her loan payments were collected and 
£20 to cover her costs. In total, Bank of Scotland paid Mrs S £195 for the issues raised in 
relation to these complaints. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Bank of Scotland had dealt with Mrs S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else or increase the offer. Mrs S asked to appeal and said she has experienced 
months of difficulties with Bank of Scotland. Our investigator responded to say we could only 
consider issued Bank of Scotland had already responded to which meant we were focusing 
on the complaints it dealt with in the above final responses. As Mrs S has asked to appeal, 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs S for her patience while weve been looking into her case. In response to 
the investigators findings, Mrs S explained she wanted us to look at all the issues she has 
experienced with Bank of Scotland over an extended period. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S 
and I understand her frustration. As our investigator has said, we cant consider complaints 
about businesses until theyve had a chance to resolve them directly. In this case Bank of 
Scotland responded to Mrs S concerns about the payments it collected for her credit card 
and loan and thats what I have to focus on when looking at this complaint. However, any 
issues that havent been covered by Bank of Scotlands final responses and the 
investigators findings can be dealt with as a separate case if Mrs S wishes to pursue them 
further.  
Its clear Bank of Scotland made some errors here. Mrs S has told us she was informed she 
could make payments to her credit card under the plan via direct debit. But that information 
was wrong which meant Mrs S had to contact Bank of Scotland and arrange for her 
payments to be made by another method. I agree Bank of Scotland shouldve given Mrs S 
clear guidance concerning how to make payments and can understand that the issues 
raised added to an already difficult situation. So I think its fair that Bank of Scotland pays her 
compensation for the trouble and upset that caused. 
I can also see that two loan payments were collected in one month due to the way payment 
plans were administered by Bank of Scotland. That led to one of the payments having to be 
refunded and I can understand why this wouldve caused Mrs S inconvenience. I agree that 
the way the loan payments were collected wasnt right. 
As I agree Mrs S complaint points should be upheld Ive looked at how Bank of Scotland 
responded and the compensation its paid. Bank of Scotland has paid a total of £175 for the 
trouble and upset caused by the way it administered payments to the credit card and loan 
accounts. And its paid £20 to cover Mrs S costs. Whilst I agree Bank of Scotland made 
mistakes, I think its response and the compensation paid fairly reflects the impacts of the 
issues raised. I understand Mrs S may have further concerns about Bank of Scotlands 
actions. But in relation to the compensation paid in this complaint, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs S has also complained about receiving messages from Bank of Scotland despite 
agreeing payment plans. Bank of Scotland has explained those messages are caused when 
payments fall below the normal monthly payment. As Mrs S was making lower payments 
due to her plans, the messages were sent. I havent found Bank of Scotland made an error 
by sending messages to Mrs S. 
As Im satisfied Bank of Scotland has dealt with the complaint points covered in this case 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Bank of Scotland plc has already 
paid compensation that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman