DRN-3714491
The complaint
Mr R complains Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) failed to renew his 
breakdown cover when his motor insurance policy renewed.
There are several parties and representatives of Brightside involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Brightside.
What happened
Mr R had a motor insurance policy with Brightside and this included breakdown cover.
The policy renewed in November 2021 and the documentation sent to Mr R confirmed the 
breakdown cover had also renewed.
In February 2022 Mr R contacted the breakdown provider because he had an issue with his 
van. He was told that his breakdown policy had expired. 
As the issue with the van was with the electrics and not the engine, Mr R was able to move it 
to a secure location. 
Mr R contacted Brightside the following day. After looking into the issue it eventually found 
that there was a technical issue with a new computer system that had prevented data being 
transmitted to the breakdown provider. This had resulted in the breakdown part of Mr Rs 
policy not being renewed, although it showed on the policy documentation that it was in 
place.
Brightside reimbursed the cost of the breakdown part of Mr Rs cover as a gesture of 
goodwill. The transfer of data issue between Brightside and the breakdown cover provider 
was eventually resolved and breakdown cover was organised for Mr R. 
As Mr R was not happy with Brightside, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said although 
Brightside had refunded the cost of the breakdown they didnt think it had taken into account 
the time stress and frustration this matter had caused Mr R. They said Brightside should also 
pay Mr R an additional £100 compensation.
As Mr R is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R had obtained motor insurance through Brightside for a number of years and this 
automatically renewed each year together with breakdown cover. So I can understand it 
must have been a shock when he contacted the breakdown provider to be told he wasnt 
covered.
In this case Mr R made the call to the breakdown provider at 8pm in the evening. When he 
was told he did not have breakdown cover he was unable to contact Brightside to try and 
sort the issue out a until the next day when it was open again. 
I have seen that when Mr R contacted Brightside the next day it initially confirmed he did 
have breakdown cover. However after looking into the issue Brightside said that it was 
aware of a technical issue that had prevented data being transmitted and said it was trying to 
resolve it as quickly as possible. It accepted this issue meant that Mr Rs breakdown cover 
had not been renewed with the breakdown provider. 
Brightside said Mr R had the option to buy breakdown cover when he contacted the 
breakdown provider and was told he was not covered. It said he would have then been 
reimbursed for this cost once Brightside had spoken to the breakdown provider to confirm 
cover. 
I do not think Mr R had all the information he needed to make an informed decision when he 
made the call for the breakdown assistance as he was not aware of the reasons his policy 
had not been renewed. And I do not think Brightside can assume that Mr R was in a position 
to pay again for cover that he thought he already had.
Mr R contacted Brightside a number of times to sort out the issue. Brightside offered to 
refund the cost of the breakdown cover and said he would still have the benefit of the 
breakdown cover until the expiry date of his motor insurance policy.
Mr R then asked to cancel his motor insurance policy and wanted a full refund. Brightside 
said it would waive the cancellation fee, but it would not offer a full refund as he had 
benefitted from cover since November 2021. I do not think a full refund was appropriate in 
this case.
Brightside refunded the cost of the breakdown cover to Mr R as a gesture of goodwill. 
I have considered if the refund of the cost of the cover is fair and reasonable in this case. 
And although Brightside offered Mr R the benefit of breakdown cover after refunding the 
cost, I still think it should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused for 
the following reasons.
Brightside said that Mr R did have cover, when in fact he didnt when he tried to use it. This 
issue happened due to an error on the part of  Brightside because it did not ensure he was 
covered after taking payment. Mr R had to take time to sort out this issue caused by 
Brightside and went through a period of time not  knowing if he had breakdown cover or not.
As a result of Brightsides error, Mr R did not have breakdown cover when he required it, and 
because of this, the issue with his van was not dealt with by the breakdown provider as it 
would have been if cover was in place, causing him stress and inconvenience . 
I think £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount in this case.
Therefore, for the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Brightside to 
pay £100 compensation. My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr R £100 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman