DRN-3128153
The complaint
Mrs A complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) took funds out of her account without 
her consent.
What happened
Mrs A acquired a car under a 37 month hire purchase agreement with PSA in October 2017. 
The car cost around £25,189. Under the agreement, Mrs A was required to make 36 
payments of £293.57, followed by a final payment of £11,212 if she wanted to keep the car. 
In October 2020, Mrs A ordered a new car from a dealership Ill call G, as her existing 
agreement was due to expire. Mrs A says G told her the car wouldnt be delivered until 
December 2020 or January 2021. So she says she completed paperwork with G to extend 
her existing agreement. 
On 30 November 2020, PSA debited the final payment of £11,212 from Mrs As bank 
account. Mrs A says PSA didnt tell her it was doing this and after making a number of phone 
calls over two days, she was told it was because G hadnt sent PSA the correct information. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs A complained to PSA on 4 December 2020.
On 20 December 2020, PSA issued its response to Mrs As complaint. It said it agreed to 
extend Mrs As original agreement on 5 December 2020 and it had refunded the total final 
payment, less one payment owed under the extension on 14 December 2020. It confirmed it 
would contact the relevant credit reference agencies and ensure no adverse markers would 
be applied. It apologised for causing Mrs A any distress as a result of the service it had 
provided and credited her bank account with £100 in recognition of this.
Unhappy with this, Mrs A referred her complaint to this service. She said she was unhappy 
with the service provided by PSA and said it had now debited a further monthly payment 
from her bank account for this agreement, despite her getting her new car on                      
22 December 2020. Mrs A said she wanted PSA to refund the monthly payment taken in 
error and to pay her £700 compensation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think PSA needed to do anything further. 
She said PSA didnt receive Mrs As extension paperwork until after the final payment had 
been debited. She also said Mrs A had received two refunds for the payment debited in error 
by PSA in December 2020. And because Mrs A had confirmed she hadnt had any financial 
difficulties as a result of the final payment being debited from her account, our investigator 
didnt think PSA needed to make any further compensation payments.
As Mrs A remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Mrs As complain against PSA.
Mrs As hire purchase agreement confirms the final payment will be due in month 37 of the 
agreement  on 29 November 2020. PSA wrote to Mrs A on 1 October 2020 to explain her 
options as the finance agreement was due to end. One of these options would be to keep 
the car and pay a final payment.  
However, G called PSA on behalf of Mrs A on 16 October 2020 and requested the 
agreement was extended. System notes show that PSA advised G to send it the order form 
for the new car and confirmation of how long the agreement needed to be extended by. 
I think its likely G sent this information to PSA, as PSA wrote to Mrs A on 19 October 2020 
outlining that it was happy to let Mrs A have a three month extension and explained shed 
need to pay three additional monthly instalments and the final payment in February 2021. 
The letter said Mrs A would need to sign and return the document to PSA to accept the new 
terms. However, Mrs A says she wasnt told to do this by G and she says she didnt receive 
the letter from PSA - and so she didnt know she would need to sign it and return it. 
In this case, there are no notes from G to confirm what was explained to Mrs A about the 
extension on 16 October 2020 or on the other occasions she said she called them. G called 
PSA to ask whether it would allow an extension on behalf of Mrs A. It was then down to PSA 
to decide whether to grant an extension or not. 
I also accept that COVID-19 may have caused some delay in post being delivered. But I 
need to consider whether PSA made it clear to Mrs A that she would need to sign and return 
the form in order to extend the agreement. And I think it did. The letter it sent was sent to the 
correct address and clearly explained Mrs A would need to contact it to accept the extension 
request. I cant hold PSA liable for Mrs A not receiving her post. And its unfortunate Mrs A 
didnt receive the letter, as I think its more likely than not that she would have contacted 
PSA to accept the extension, as she did on 5 December 2020. 
So, I dont think PSA did anything wrong when it debited the final payment amount from   
Mrs As account on 30 November 2020. After Mrs A accepted the terms of the extension, 
PSA refunded the final payment amount, less one payment owed under the extension, to 
Mrs As account on 14 December 2020. And it gave Mrs A £100. So I dont think it needs to 
do any more here.
Ive also considered that Mrs A said any paperwork should have been given to her by G at 
the time she agreed to take the new car. But, I can see why this might not have been 
possible, as G and PSA are different organisations. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
I know how strongly Mrs A feels about this issue and believes that PSA are at fault for the 
payment being taken from her account. But, its worth pointing out that even if I reached the 
opposite conclusion here and agreed with Mrs A, there would still be little to put right here. I 
say this as PSA put the money back into Mrs As account. And, while I understand the stress 
it must have caused, Mrs A hasnt shown us that this caused her any specific financial 
difficulty or loss. 
Ive gone on to consider the payment PSA debited in error. Mrs As new agreement started 
on 22 December 2020. So PSA shouldnt have debited any further payments from her 
account. PSA accepts it made an error when it debited Mrs As account on 29 December 
2020. So Ive thought about whether PSA needs to do anything to put things right.I can see that after Mrs A complained about this, PSA refunded this amount to Mrs As 
account. The account statement shows this was refunded on 8 January 2021. The statement 
also shows a further refund to Mrs A of the monthly amount on 25 January 2021. So Mrs A 
received the refund twice. 
Overall, I dont think PSA made an error when it collected the final payment in        
November 2020. And theres no dispute it made an error when it collected the payment in 
error in December 2020. But I think the £100 compensation PSA has already paid Mrs A, 
along with it updating her credit record, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. PSA will 
need to contact Mrs A directly to discuss any outstanding amount she owes them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman