DRN-3828833
The complaint
Mr G complains that Telefonica UK Limited, trading as O2, were wrong to report a default on 
his account when the account had already been settled and closed with a zero balance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with our investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
O2 accept that a mistake has been made here. They have explained that a system error 
meant that Mr Gs account was wrongly reported to one credit agency as being in default. 
That happened in November 2021 several years after the account had been settled and 
closed with a zero balance. A notice of default wasnt sent to Mr G as this was a reporting 
error and the account hadnt actually defaulted.
O2 have now offered £150 to Mr G to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration here as it would have been upsetting to realise O2 had 
damaged his credit file through no fault of his own. Ive read that Mr G was looking to finance 
a car deal and had he not been informed through an app of the default being reported I think 
it is likely his car credit application would have been in some difficulty. Fortunately, Mr G was 
able to delay his application. Mr G was also concerned about correspondence sent by O2 to 
him after the complaint was made and the default was removed, and I think that could have 
led him to believe the default may be added again and would have added to his distress. I 
can understand that Mr G would have wanted his complaint to be prioritised and resolved 
quickly and I can see he had to contact O2 regularly because promised call backs werent 
made. 
On the other hand, I dont think theres evidence Mr G was financially disadvantaged to any 
significant degree as he identified the issue early. O2 were reasonably quick to accept 
responsibility and they did resolve matters in about a month which I think was a reasonable 
timescale as they needed to investigate the matter. 
Putting things right
Taking all of the issues into account I agree with the investigator that O2s offer of 
compensation is a fair one and Im not therefore asking them to take any further action other 
than to pay it to Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell O2 to pay Mr G £150 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman