DRN-2672822
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
Mr B has been represented by his wife but for simplicity, and because the finance agreement 
is in his name, I will refer to Mr B throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here 
was around six years old and had already completed about 84,800 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Mr B has provided a report from a franchised garage to show that there are some issues 
with the paint and body alignment on the car. He says he complained to the dealership about 
that within the first couple of months.
I think a reasonable person would expect some work to have been completed on a high 
mileage vehicle such as this and I think its reasonable to suggest that would extend to an 
acceptance that some bodywork repairs could have been completed.
The business carried out an HPI check on the car before it was supplied to Mr B and that 
didnt highlight any issues that they would have needed to report to Mr B such as it being 
written off in an accident. 
Ive not seen supporting evidence that there is anything wrong with the steering or the tyres 
and I can see that the car passed a MOT shortly before Mr B took receipt of it and that 
issues of that kind were not identified.
Overall, Im persuaded that the damage Mr B has reported is most likely due to normal wear 
and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage. 
Mr B has also complained about issues hes had with the Nitrous Oxide sensor on the car. I 
can see the sensor first failed in July 2020 after Mr B had completed about 6,500 miles in the 
car. Im not persuaded he would have been able to complete that amount of mileage in the 
car if the issue had been present or developing at the point of supply. So, I dont think there 
is sufficient evidence to suggest this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied and I think its most likely the Nitrous Oxide sensor failed due to wear and tear.
I therefore dont think it would be fair to ask Black Horse to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman