DRN-1168460
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to send him bank statements after he 
requested them, as well as giving him incorrect information about timeframes for them to be 
sent.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr O called Lloyds to request his bank statements going back to 2012. He told 
the advisor this was to support his visa renewal. Lloyds told him the statements would arrive 
within five working days.
Mr O called Lloyds five working days later as the statements hadn't arrived. He was told the 
statements had been ordered, but the timeframe hed been given previously was wrong. And 
it shouldve told him that statements will take between seven and ten days to arrive. 
The statements didn't arrive within this timeframe, so Mr O complained. He explained the 
delay would cause him to incur extra costs related to his visa renewal. Lloyds agreed it had 
made a mistake and paid him £100 for the extra visa fees he would now need to pay, £14 for 
call costs, and £75 for the inconvenience caused. It also confirmed the statements should 
arrive by 10 June 2019. 
Mr O called Lloyds again on 10 June 2019 as he still hadn't received the statements. He said 
this meant he couldn't complete his visa renewal and the potential impact of this. But Lloyds 
checked its records and said the statements had been sent to him. 
Lloyds went on to pay Mr O an additional £25. But it said this was without any admission of 
liability as it had agreed to this before reviewing what happened and deciding it hadn't made 
a further mistake. Lloyds also highlighted a previous complaint Mr O had made in January 
2019 that related to statements, where it said it had told him its statement delivery timescale 
of seven to ten working days.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Os complaint. She agreed Lloyds had given Mr O incorrect 
information, but it had fairly compensated him for this. And she found Lloyds had sent the 
statements to Mr Os address, and so didn't think it was fair to hold it responsible for any 
issues he may have with receiving post. 
Mr O didn't agree and said he incurred further costs due to the statements not arriving. So, 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr O requested his statements in a phone call with Lloyds. From the evidence I have seen 
Lloyds requested for the statements to be sent to Mr O on that day. This is what Id expect 
Lloyds to do in these circumstances. Having listened to the call recordings its clear Lloyds initially gave Mr O the wrong 
timescales for delivery of his bank statements. Lloyds accepted this and paid him for the 
financial losses he said hed incurred as a result, as well as £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience. Im satisfied this is fair in the circumstances. I say this as the 
miscommunication, while frustrating, didn't delay the delivery of the statements as they were 
still ordered on the first day he called about them.
Mr O has said hes not received the statements. But even if this is the case, I cant see this is 
due to a mistake by Lloyds. Based on Lloyds internal notes and from what I've seen, the 
statements were sent to Mr O after he requested them. And I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Lloyds responsible for potential issues with the post being delivered. 
So while I appreciate Mr Os said his visa renewal was affected by the statements not 
arriving, I dont think this is due to a mistake made by Lloyds. And Im persuaded it has 
already fairly compensated him for the trouble and upset he felt having to wait longer than he 
was initially told. 
Lloyds has also said that it advises customers to contact it at least a month in advance for 
statements when dealing with matters such as a visa application. Given the seriousness of 
an application such as this, this seems like a sensible suggestion.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman