DRN-3057784
The complaint
 Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging him 
excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr P complained to Santander that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his
account when he was vulnerable and in financial difficulty. Santander didnt uphold the 
complaint. And as Mr P was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty by February 2018 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from February 
2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr P was in no position to sustainably 
repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr P was already clearly struggling to manage his existing overdraft limit with 
Santander. For example, Mr P was constantly at his overdraft limit and incurring over the 
limit and returned item fees. In these circumstances, I think that Santander ought to have 
realised that continuing to allow Mr P to use his overdraft in this way wasnt in his best 
interests and there was a significant risk Mr Ps indebtedness would increase unsustainably.
Mr P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr P fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in February 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ps 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman