DRN-1829955
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to record a telephone call between them.
What happened
Mr N says he called Barclays on 15 July 2019 but it says it has no record of that call. Mr N 
says it would have supported his complaint against Barclays and so was important. He says 
Barclays says it records all calls and has breached General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR).
Barclays says it has no record of that call and has searched for it. It has apologised to Mr N 
and paid him £100 compensation. It says it tells customers it may record a call not that it will 
record a call.
Mr N had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought we couldn't look at 
possible GDPR breaches but Barclays ought to have either recorded the call or had a record 
of it. The investigator thought the compensation offer was fair and reasonable and that he 
thought Barclays had carried out searches for the call recording.
Mr N doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr N will be disappointed 
by my decision.
The investigator has explained that it's not our role to decide if there has been a GDPR 
breach, and Mr N will need to contact the Information Commissioners' Office about that.
I agree with the investigator that there ought to have been a recording of that call or at least 
a note of the contents. So I appreciate Mr N's frustration in these circumstances. But I'm 
satisfied that Barclays has searched for the call and has paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation as well as apologising for what's happened.
I know that Mr N thinks the call would have provided significant support for a separate 
complaint. I have made clear that I don't think that was the case for reasons I have explained 
elsewhere. So overall I'm satisfied the compensation is appropriate and I can't fairly require 
Barclays to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and so I don't uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman