DRN-4161106
The complaint
Mr E has complained about his car insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) in 
respect of a renewal premium charged when he changed his car.
RSAs trade name in the contract it has with Mr E is different. But RSA underwrites the policy 
and so is responsible for everything that happened at renewal. So my decision will refer only 
to RSA.
What happened
Mr E had cover with RSA for car A. It was due to renew on 20 July 2022. On 2 July 2022, 
Mr E called RSA and said he had a new car, car B. RSA charged Mr E £19.42 to change the 
car on the current policy. What would happen at renewal wasnt clarified.
Mr E accesses his policy details on RSAs web portal. Around the time the policy was due to 
renew Mr E checked his policy documents. He noted a renewal for car A, where the overall 
premium had increased only slightly on the year before but the monthly payment had 
doubled. Mr E was concerned that RSA was looking to cover both cars, generating the 
increased monthly premium, and believed that the total premium detailed for the year in the 
renewal letter must reflect only that due for car B. He complained.
RSA initially responded to Mr Es complaint in a phone call. RSAs advisor said that during 
the call in July Mr E had been told that there would be an additional premium for car B  and 
that sum was in line with the increased monthly payments. The advisor said Mr E could 
cancel and close the complaint. Mr E said he would like to cancel. But he was unhappy as 
he didnt think that was a satisfactory resolution to the complaint. He remained unconvinced 
about what car/cars RSA was covering and the costs detailed by it. He asked for a written 
response. The advisor said he wasnt sure he could do that, certainly not right away.
By letter in October 2022 RSA issued a final response to Mr E. RSA assured it had not 
charged for cover for both cars  that cover for car B was merely more expensive as that car 
presented a higher risk. It said the renewal document, showing car B, had been uploaded to 
the portal on 2 July 2022. But it had then also uploaded documents on 4 July 2022 that 
referred to car A. It acknowledged a failure by it to clearly advise about the renewal premium 
in July and that uploading incorrect documents on 4 July 2022 had caused confusion. RSA 
said it couldnt offer cover for car B at a reduced price but would pay £100 compensation.
Mr E complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator noted that RSA had 
caused confusion. But she was satisfied that only one car was being covered and that RSA 
had given Mr E the chance to cancel the renewed policy if he had wanted to. So she felt 
£100 compensation, in the circumstances, was fair and reasonable. 
Mr E was unhappy. He still felt the policy documents did not make sense  unless it was 
accepted that the documents uploaded on 4 July 2022 merely included the wrong 
registration details (those for car A and not car B). And he was adamant that no documents 
regarding car B had been placed on the portal. He didnt think it was fair for him to have to 
pay in line with sums not communicated to him, and said if hed been told the correct total 
amount  then hed have cancelled, seeking cover elsewhere. His complaint was passed for 
an Ombudsmans review.
I felt RSA had caused Mr E confusion and frustration, and that a total of £250 compensation 
should be paid to make up for that. But I wasnt minded to require RSA to amend the cost of 
cover for car B, which I was satisfied was the higher sum in line with which Mr E had been 
making payment. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Having seen the documents and heard the calls on 2 July and August 2022, I can see why 
Mr E was confused and frustrated with RSA. I also think the final response really fails to 
adequately accept the shortcomings of the renewal documents issued. 
Mr E says he did not receive the documents RSA says it uploaded on to the portal on 2 July 
 these showed a cost of £1,338.37 for cover for car B for the year, with a cost of £110.04 
added for paying monthly, making the total payable £1,492.41 (where there would be 
11 monthly payments of £124.37 and one of £124.34). But I note that these documents did 
not have a cover letter with them setting out that these formed the renewal documents for 
the policy. And in the call on 2 July 2022 it was left that renewal on the basis of car B being 
covered wouldnt be progressed at that time. Im also not sure  if they were available to 
Mr E on the portal, what exactly he would have seen. In any event, RSA then uploaded 
further renewal documents to the portal on 4 July 2022. These were very clearly renewal 
documents and came with a covering letter. It is entirely reasonable, in respect of renewal, 
for both parties to rely on the documents most recently issued as being those which apply.  
The 4 July 2022 documents are unclear. Im not really sure how RSA managed to create a 
set of policy documents that contained such inconsistent/incorrect premium detail. In short 
the documents set out monthly payments (£124.37) in line with the total cost for cover in the 
2 July documents for car B, whilst saying it is the renewal for car A and, in places, referring 
to a yearly figure of £641.52. That figure simply doesnt make mathematical sense against 
the monthly payment amount detailed. The figure of £641.52 is more in line with the previous 
charge for car A, which was just under £600 the year before. Coincidentally, I think, the sum 
of £641.52 is also similar to an additional cost for covering car B mentioned in the call on 
2 July 2022 (£659.06). And if those two sums are added together, they are not far away from 
the total cost of cover set out in the finance part of the 4 July documents (£1,338.37). So, 
I think that higher figure of £1,338.37 is likely the total cost of cover charged by RSA for 
car B. But what RSA has done in these 4 July documents to express that is far from clear.  
However, Im satisfied the total premium, taking into account the monthly payments along 
with the charge for credit, as detailed on the payment plan (£1,492.41) is correct for cover for 
car B. The total, in my view, does not seem to be a reflection of RSA charging Mr E a 
premium for both cars. Although it could be expressed as the cost for car A plus an 
additional sum to make up the total cost of cover for car B. To me the documents do not 
suggest that the cost of cover for car B is or was intended to be in-line with what had been 
charged previously for car A. If Mr E had kept car A and renewed it, then that renewal would 
likely, I think, have cost £641.52 in total. But Mr E changed his car, to car B. And the cost for 
RSA to cover car B was £1,338.37. Thats quite a lot more than the cost for car A. But I think 
its fair to say that car B is more of a luxury car than car A. So it doesnt seem unreasonable 
to me that RSA would see it as a higher risk, not least as any necessary repair/replacement 
would likely cost more. And Im not persuaded that RSA would be alone in viewing car B as 
a higher insurance risk, for which a higher premium is charged. So it doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me that RSA would charge a higher premium for car B. 
But its really unfortunate that RSA wasnt able to communicate that simple price difference 
and policy change to Mr E, either verbally, in its phone calls with him, or in its policy 
documents. The final response RSA issued references that it was a mistake for it to upload the 
documents it did on 4 July 2022 and that this caused confusion. But it doesnt recognise that 
Mr E reasonably relied on them  or at least the total figure of £641.52. The final response 
also doesnt recognise the mistakes within those documents and the lack of clarity they 
caused. And the response also did not offer Mr E any further chance to cancel his cover. 
RSA had offered that to Mr E in August 2022. At that time, he was still within his cooling off 
period. But, at that time, RSA made the option to cancel conditional on Mr E accepting that it 
allowing him to cancel meant it had also satisfactorily answered his complaint. Im not 
persuaded it was reasonable for RSA to do that. And Im mindful that when it offered to 
cancel the cover, before it added the caveat about that resolving the complaint, Mr E did tell 
it that was what he wanted to do. 
However, I cant reasonably focus in on Mr Es initial request to cancel whilst ignoring what 
he has expressed as his desired outcome for the complaint. In that respect, Im mindful that 
Mr E is adamant that RSA should only be charging him £641.52 for cover for car B. And he 
is equally adamant that is what he wants in redress  cover for car B from RSA at that price, 
with his payments over and above that reimbursed (because hes been paying £124.37 each 
month for more than five months). So Im not persuaded that even if RSA had been clearer 
with Mr E about his options  that he could cancel the policy whilst still complaining, or 
continue with the policy at the confirmed correct premium  that he would have opted for the 
cancellation. If he had done then he could have sought cover at, what for him, would have 
been a more agreeable rate, via another insurer. And as all insurers view risk differently to 
set premiums and some even use technology to keep the cost of cover down, he may well 
have been able to find a suitable price. But, as I said, I dont think RSA having been clearer 
with him about his options  and I do think that those were the reasonable options he should 
have been given  would have actually caused him to cancel with it and shop elsewhere. As 
such whilst RSA failed Mr E by not being clear with him, I dont think its failure has materially 
affected the position Mr E has ended up in  paying £124.37 each month for cover with it for 
car B. Therefore, I cant reasonably require RSA to reimburse him for what he sees as the 
additional costs hes been paying with it for cover since renewal in July 2022. 
Clearly though this has been frustrating for Mr E. Not least as I dont think hes ever really 
had a clear explanation about things. Certainly not one which reflects what he saw in the 
policy documents issued. And he has had a loss of opportunity by not being able to freely 
look elsewhere for cover. I can also see that it was frustrating for him having to wait for a 
written reply from RSA. In saying that Im mindful that RSA could have done more during the 
call, as Ive said, to resolve this complaint. But also because RSA knew that whilst the 
complaint was on-going, Mr E was having to keep paying it the disputed premium sums. 
I dont doubt that each month the payment was made, whilst the complaint response was 
also outstanding, Mr E was further upset by it all. So I think RSA should pay Mr E a total of 
£250 compensation in full and final settlement of this matter.
RSA said it had paid £100 compensation already. Mr E indicated he was disappointed with 
my findings. He said that he wants the premium for car B to be £641.52 for the whole year  
if hed known it would be so much more, hed have cancelled and found cover elsewhere. He 
cant afford RSAs price for cover and he could have found lower cost cover elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr E is unhappy with the price RSA charged. And that he feels he could 
have found cover elsewhere at a price agreeable to him. But I was aware of that when considering and making my provisional findings. In my provisional findings I explained what 
unfair and unreasonable actions I felt RSA had taken and what was needed, in my view, to 
make up for that. Ive seen nothing new since to make me revise my views on the complaint. 
As such, my provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require RSA to pay Mr E a total of £250 compensation. If £100 has been paid already, then 
it only needs to pay the £150 outstanding.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman