DRN-4312387
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Astrenska Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under his motor breakdown insurance policy and the poor service he 
received.  
What happened
Mr S car broke down on a very busy road and he called Astrenska for assistance. As Mr S 
was in a vulnerable position with his wife he expected to be prioritised especially given his 
and his wifes poor health. The conditions were too cold for Mr S and his wife to stay away 
from the car in a position of safety for long, so he returned to his vehicle. Although he felt 
very unsafe in the car Mr S felt he had no choice.
As Mr S still wasnt recovered after a period of over seven hours, feeling unwell, having 
already got separate transport for his wife who was suffering with her own health to get her 
home safely and with little in the way of updates from Astrenska he decided to leave his car 
overnight. He made arrangements for the collection of his car the following day but 
unfortunately it was stolen from where he had left it at the side of the road.
When Mr S complained to Astrenska about this it apologised for the delay and offered £75 
by way of compensation. But as Mr S remained unhappy he brought his complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and upheld his complaint. He thought 
Astrenskas offer of compensation wasnt enough to cover the stress, worry and 
inconvenience caused leading up to the theft of his car so he thought the compensation level 
should be lifted to £350. 
As Astrenska didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr S was left in a very vulnerable position at the side of a busy main 
road with his wife in freezing conditions for a prolonged period of over seven hours. And so, 
my focus in this complaint is purely about the level of compensation Mr S should be awarded 
for the position he was left in. 
Astrenska seems to accept it got things wrong here and that Mr S should be compensated 
for this. It just feels that the level of compensation suggested by the investigator is too high. 
It has pointed to other complaints considered by this Service which it feels supports its offer 
of £75 compensation. 
However, as our investigator pointed out each case is judged on its merits as opposed to 
adopting a general position and particular attention is paid to the circumstances each 
consumer is left in when considering compensation in cases like this. And Ive looked at the 
cases it has highlighted in support of its position but there are a few key differences. Indeed, 
some of the cases it has highlighted have offered more in compensation than Astrenska and 
given it has put these cases forward in support of its position I would have expected its initial 
offer to be higher.
I note one of the cases it has highlighted has offered double the amount of compensation 
Astrenska offered here when I would suggest that the consumer hasnt faced the same level 
of stress and inconvenience as Mr S. And yet it hasnt offered more to Mr S while 
questioning the level our investigator suggested which is surprising. Generally, in the cases 
it has highlighted people have been left stranded and in difficult circumstances at the side of 
the road like Mr S. But, in addition, Mr S wife had to get a taxi back given her own health 
concerns and the freezing condition they were in and he had to wait on his own for hours 
while managing his own poor health. Indeed, Mr S was very unwell in the weeks after being 
left stranded at the side of the road because of the cold and damp conditions he was left in.
Finally, although Astrenska cant be held responsible for the theft of Mr S car it was far less 
likely to have been stolen if the car had been recovered as it should have been when he 
broke down. And it must have been extremely stressful for Mr S to have realised his car had 
been stolen having already faced the difficulties the day before when his car should have 
been recovered.
Given all of this I think it would be fair for Astrenska to pay Mr S £350 compensation. I say 
this as Mr S and his wife were left in a very stressful and difficult position at the side of the 
road in very cold and dangerous conditions for over seven hours. And this was on top of 
their poor health and Mr S further subsequent health problems which were linked to being 
left in the cold for so long without food and drink. Plus, the extreme stress of having to leave 
his car which was subsequently stolen must have been additionally traumatic.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
S £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman