DRN-2291821
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs H says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs H took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in October 1999 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs H in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It cost 1p per £1 of the amount owed on her card each month. It 
paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs H was off work until she either 
returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs H mainly told us that she wouldnt have bought the policy if she had understood 
insurance was being added on as she had no need for the policy. Mrs H mentioned having 
savings and being able to rely on benefits provided by her employer and on family help if 
necessary.
Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive no doubt that Mrs H feels certain about everything shes told us. But what Mrs H says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just based on the way she 
says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think 
is most likely. 
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Hs store card application.
At the top of the application form that Mrs H signed when she took out her store card theres 
a section in bold type and block capitals headed ACCOUNT COVER. 
Mrs H has signed here, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. 
I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said to Mrs H about the PPI. But I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs H to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs H signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs H wouldve first read through 
anything she was asked to sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to 
me that by signing the form Mrs H was indicating that she agreed with the information on the 
form at the time.  
So, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs H aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI 
and that she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs H. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs H enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs H wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Mrs H was entitled to 3 - 6 months sick pay from her employer. But this policy couldve paid 
a benefit for as long as Mrs H was off work sick or disabled. So it couldve paid out for longer 
than Mrs H was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared her card balance if she 
wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs H with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Mrs H in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So the PPI offered Mrs H significantly better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs H if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mrs H told us she had some savings. But I havent seen any details about this. And it was up 
to Mrs H to decide if she wanted to have the benefits the policy offered, knowing what her 
financial situation was at the time. So this information makes no difference to the outcome of 
this complaint. Based on what shes told us, it still looks to me like the policy offered Mrs H 
useful benefits in her particular situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mrs H. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs H off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs H clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form 
and there was an indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. So it looks 
like Mrs H was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly 
premium when she filled in the application form.
It seems to have been affordable for her when she took it out and Mrs H couldve cancelled 
the policy at any time at no extra cost if she decided it wasnt something she wanted to pay 
for each month.
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs H, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she still 
wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs H has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman