DRN-3382358
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer Finance UK Plc 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. Within a few days of getting the car, Mr M discovered that it had been 
modified and that the engine had been remapped. He complained to Santander and asked 
to reject the car.
Santander contacted the manufacturer who confirmed that the car had been modified and 
that this would void the warranty. The car was restored to its factory settings. Santander 
rejected the complaint, saying that the car was of satisfactory quality.
Mr M complained to this service. I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the 
complaint. I found that the modifications had voided the warranty and that the warranty 
would no longer cover engine components, even though the car had been restored to factory 
settings. I found that this made the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied and said that 
because Mr M had exercised his short term right to reject, Santander should allow him to 
reject the car. I said that Santander should refund 50% of Mr Ms monthly payments, 
because although Mr M had used the car for 10 months, if his request to reject had been 
accepted when it should have been, he wouldnt have had to use the car for as long as he 
did.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Santander replied and said it had nothing further to add. Mr M replied and said he still didnt 
think it was fair that he should have to miss out on a refund of 50% of his monthly payments. 
He said he hadnt enjoyed owning the car and he was always worried about the risk of a fault 
developing which wouldnt be covered by the warranty, as a result of the previous 
modifications. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the further points that Mr M has made. I appreciate that he feels very 
strongly that he should receive a refund of all his monthly payments. But I remain of the view 
that there should be a deduction for usage. Mr M covered significant mileage in the car 
during the time that it was in his possession, and whilst I appreciate that he was worried 
about potential faults, fortunately no faults occurred. I remain of the view that its fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to refund 50% of Mr Ms payments.
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander Consumer UK Plc must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr M refund the deposit of £250 plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund 50% of payments made by Mr M plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file ion relation to the agreement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer UK Plc must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman