DRN-3657073
The complaint
Company A complains about HSBCs decision to review and block its account.
What happened
In August 2020, company A sold goods to a third-party customer for around £3,800. The 
money was transferred to company As account, and the goods were delivered the next day.
On 5 September 2020, HSBC received an alert from the third-party bank saying their 
customer hadnt received the goods. So, HSBC blocked company As account to carry out a 
review.
HSBC asked company A to provide evidence relating to the sale and delivery of the goods. 
Mr I, on company As behalf, provided evidence on 9 September 2020 and further evidence 
on 29 September 2020.
HSBC didnt think the evidence Mr I provided was sufficient, so company As account 
remained blocked. In January 2021, HSBC removed the block from company As account.
Mr I said the time the account was blocked caused company A to lose out on sales, and 
meant it couldnt pay its salaries or bills. Mr I, as an individual, said he spent hours in the 
branch and on telephone calls trying to sort out the issues.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
based on the evidence company A had provided, it was reasonable to assume the goods 
had been delivered  and it seemed the dispute was regarding the quality of the goods. 
Because of that, our investigator thought it was reasonable for HSBC to have removed the 
block on 29 September 2020  when the final piece of evidence to show the goods were 
delivered was supplied by company A. She asked HSBC to pay £200 compensation.
HSBC accepted our investigators recommendations  but company A didnt. In summary, it 
thought it was entitled to more as it had lost significant money. Company A wanted 
compensation nearer to £10,000 to fairly reflect the financial loss and inconvenience to it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
In July 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. The terms of the account also allow HSBC to take actions such as 
restricting the account if they become aware it was as a result of fraud. Due to the 
notification HSBC received from the third-party bank, I consider they were entitled to block 
the account while they carried out a review.
Im pleased to see HSBC asked company A for evidence of the sale so they could 
investigate things fully; and Im pleased company A collaborated with their request for further 
information. Company A provided evidence to HSBC in September 2020. While HSBC are 
entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely manner and without 
undue delay. Im aware HSBC reviewed things and didnt think the evidence company A 
provided was sufficient; and the account remained blocked until January 2021. I havent 
seen any evidence to satisfy me of the actions HSBC took between September 2020 and 
January 2021 and therefore I consider there were unreasonable delays on HSBCs part.
Mr I, on behalf of company A, has sent our service the documentation he sent to HSBC. Im 
satisfied, based on what Mr I sent us, that what company A provided shows the goods were 
delivered. Im not satisfied of the reasons HSBC provided as to why they didnt feel the 
evidence showed the goods were delivered. And if they needed additional information from 
company A, Id have expected them to be more proactive and be in touch with Mr I with 
details of the further information which was outstanding. 
I dont doubt being without its money for four months would have had a significant impact on 
company As business. Especially as it has explained that September is usually a busy 
month because of the industry it operates in. However, I havent seen any evidence of the 
financial impact and therefore I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay company A £10,000 as it 
has requested.
I do however consider that HSBC should pay interest on the amount which was withheld 
from company A. I find HSBCs actions to be reasonable with the initial block and review, but 
I consider after the final piece of evidence was received on 29 September 2020, they should 
have released the account and the money in it. I also consider a compensation payment of 
£200 should be paid to company A to recognise the inconvenience.
Ive thought about the time Mr I as an individual spent trying to resolve things, but as 
company A is HSBCs customer, I cant consider any impact to Mr I  because he is a 
separate legal entity to company A. So, while Im sorry to hear of the impact this has on Mr I 
as an individual, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on, or make an award 
because of it.
So, I thought HSBC should pay company A £200 compensation and 8% interest on the 
amount they withheld from it.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. Company A didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented any additional evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. 
In summary, I consider HSBC were entitled to block company As account and carry out a 
review. However, I do find they caused unnecessary delays and therefore think they need to 
do something to put things right. 
Putting things right
I consider HSBC should pay 8% simple interest on the amount they withheld from 
company A and they should pay £200 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. To 
put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc should:Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from company A. 
They should calculate this from the date they received enough information to 
evidence the goods were delivered (29 September 2020) up to the date company A 
had access to the money.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to withhold income tax from the above-
mentioned interest. HSBC should give company A a certificate showing how much 
tax is taken off if it asks for one.
Pay £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman