DRN-4335485
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Ms K holds with Santander UK Plc. There are several 
elements to Ms Ks complaint  Ill detail them below  which relate primarily to how 
Santander has treated her during an extended period of arrears.
What happened
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 22 May 2023, I set out the individual strands of 
Ms Ks complaint, and our remit to consider them. These were:
We can consider if Santander has wrongly reported to credit references agencies that a 
payment arrangement ordered by a court in 2014 had been broken, but only since 
24 August 2020. 
We can consider interest charged on arrears not being detailed separately in statements 
and quarterly arrears letters, but only since 18 February 2021.
We can consider Santander sending a letter in December 2021 containing an incorrect 
phone number and referring to a recent conversation, where no conversation had taken 
place.
We can consider Santanders refusal to capitalise the arrears on Ms Ks mortgage 
because the mortgaged property isnt Ms Ks primary residence, but only since 
6 April 2020.
We can consider how Santander has reported Ms Ks adherence to a court-determined 
payment arrangement to credit reference agencies, but only since 1 April 2016.
We can consider if the interest amount for the beginning of 2022 was unclear. 
We can consider if overpayments werent taken off the capital balance when they should 
have been, but only since 1 April 2016.
We can consider if there have been further occurrences since 20 January 2022 of 
incorrect data being reported with credit reference agencies.
We can consider if it is fair that Ms K is unable to view her mortgage online, due to it 
being a legacy mortgage Santander acquired when it took over another lender, but only 
since 18 August 2016.
Since then, one of our investigators has given his view of the case on its merits. In addition 
to those issues listed above, he also made a finding about a letter Santander sent Ms K in 
January 2022 saying shed missed that months payment. Overall, he wasnt persuaded 
Santander had treated Ms K unfairly or unreasonably. Ms K asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Santander has wrongly reported to credit references agencies that a payment arrangement 
ordered by a court in 2014 had been broken since 24 August 2020. 
During the period I am able to consider, Ms K has kept to her payment arrangement, and 
according to the copy of her credit file Ms K has provided, this is what Santander has 
reported. Accordingly, I dont find that Santander has done anything wrong.
Interest charged on arrears has not been detailed separately in statements and quarterly 
arrears letters, since 18 February 2021.
Santander did this for Ms K on one occasion in 2020, prior to the period I am able to 
consider. But its not something the regulator requires lenders to do generally, and 
Santander isnt treating Ms K unfairly  or differently from other borrowers in broadly similar 
circumstances  by not doing so routinely. 
Santander sent a letter in December 2021 containing an incorrect phone number and 
referring to a recent conversation, where no conversation had taken place.
This was a mistake and whilst it caused Ms K some irritation, theres nothing in the available 
evidence to suggest it caused her any detriment. The apology that Santander offered is 
sufficient remedy.
Since 6 April 2020, Santander has refused to capitalise the arrears on Ms Ks mortgage 
because the mortgaged property isnt Ms Ks primary residence.
The starting point here is that the mortgage that is the subject of this complaint is a 
residential mortgage secured on what, at the outset, Santander understood would be Ms Ks 
home. However, for some time, going back well before the period Im able to consider, Ms K 
was living elsewhere and letting out the mortgaged property. 
During the period, I am able to consider, she was doing so without Santanders consent. 
That meant she was in breach of the mortgage contract. I note that Ms K told us on 
2 August 2023 that shed provide proof shed always paid the fee for consent to let, but on 
reviewing the case file I cant see that she has done so, despite a further seven weeks 
having elapsed. On the basis of the evidence I have in front of me, I find it more likely than 
not Santanders position that Ms K did not have consent to let during the period under 
consideration is correct.
I dont find it to have been unfair or unreasonable of Santander to have declined to consider 
capitalising the arrears whilst Ms K was in breach of contract and not responding to 
Santanders requests that she pay the fee for consent to let. Ms K knew that consent to let 
was outstanding, and whilst she might not have realised that was a barrier to capitalisation, 
she shouldnt have needed to. Knowing she was in breach of contract should have been sufficient incentive for her to pay 
the consent to let fee. Ms K did eventually pay the fee, and consent was granted. Soon after 
that, the arrears were cleared, so the point became moot. 
Santander has reported Ms Ks adherence to a court-determined payment arrangement to 
credit reference agencies since 1 April 2016.
The account statements show that Ms K met all her payment obligations in full during 2019, 
2020, 2021 and 2022. According to the copy of her credit file Ms K has provided, that is what 
Santander has reported. On six occasions between 2016 and 2019 where the payment was 
either made late or didnt meet the courts requirements. I cant make a finding on whether 
these were accurately reported, as the credit file we have doesnt show payment data before 
2019. Overall, I dont find Santander has done anything wrong here.
The interest amount for the beginning of 2022 was unclear. 
This links to the head of complaint above, about interest on arrears not being listed 
separately from arrears on the core debt. The total interest on the total balance was shown 
in arrears letters and the annual statements issued in 2022. Thats consistent with Santander 
legal and regulatory requirements. Accordingly, I dont find that Santander has done 
anything wrong.
Overpayments made since 1 April 2016 havent been taken off the capital balance when 
they should have been.
The mortgage terms and conditions distinguish how overpayments will be treated depending 
on whether they are for up to or more than £500. Only those of £500 or above are removed 
immediately from the calculating capital; that is, the balance that forms the basis of the 
monthly payment calculation.
There were occasions in the period I can look at where the total amount Ms K made in a 
month exceeded the contractual amount due by more than £500, but in some cases, that 
was the cumulative result of several payments in the month rather than just one. That aside, 
where a recalculation of the monthly instalment takers place, the new figure doesnt just 
reflect the overpayment that triggered it. It has to take account of other events since the last 
recalculation, such as late payment interest, fees and in some cases interest rate changes. 
The outcome from all of that might not be what a borrower is expecting from just an 
overpayment. 
Its not our role to audit mortgage account forensically. If Ms K believes Santander hasnt 
reset her monthly instalment correctly each time shes overpaid by enough to trigger a 
recalculation, she could commission a suitably-qualified third party to audit her mortgage 
account. Shed have to meet the cost of an audit initially, but if it revealed errors to her 
detriment, Ms K could then present the result to Santander in support of a new complaint, 
and claim the cost of the audit as part of the redress. But there isnt enough evidence here 
for me to find that Santander has wrongly calculated the monthly instalments on Ms Ks 
mortgage.
There have been further occurrences since 20 January 2022 of incorrect data being reported 
with a credit reference agencies.
During the period I am able to consider, and according to the copy of her credit file Ms K has 
provided, Santander appears to have reported Ms Ks payments accurately. Accordingly, I 
dont find that Santander has done anything wrong.Whether it is fair that since 18 August 2016, Ms K is unable to view her mortgage online, due 
to it being a legacy mortgage Santander acquired when it took over another lender.
Having no regulatory function means its not within my remit to tell Santander what services 
it should provide, or how it should deliver them. As I understand it, Santander is gradually 
migrating legacy mortgages onto a platform that will allow online access. That seems fair 
and reasonable to me.
Santanders letter of 9 January 2022 wrongly stated that months payment hadnt been made 
in full.
Ms K paid January 2022s instalment in two stages, four days apart. Santander sent the 
letter during the interval between the two. That was unfortunate, but not something that I 
consider justifies an award of compensation, especially as the credit file reporting for that 
month was that the payment had been made in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Santander UK Plc.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman