DRN-1504902
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2006 in connection with a credit card. Miss A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Miss A said she didn't know she had PPI attached to her credit card. Our adjudicator thought 
the complaint should be rejected. Miss A disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked for 
the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the PPI application form that Miss A didnt 
have to take out the PPI and, by signing the form, she chose to take it out and 
consented to have it added to her credit card account  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
Having seen a copy of the information on the Demands and Needs statement, I think 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss A so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. I note that 
she told us about her health insurance from her employer, but Miss A has produced 
information about a more recent policy. So as there isnt any information about the 
health insurance policy she says she had in 2006, I cant effectively compare it with 
the PPI cover in my decision.   
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss A.
 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss A about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell Miss A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said - including everything she told us about her 
health insurance. But these points don't change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss A any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman