DRN-2966758
The complaint
Mr C and Mr Cs son complain about the sale of two investment bonds, now operated by 
Forester Life Limited (Foresters). They are unhappy with the performance of the bonds, 
which both returned less than invested when they were surrendered. Mr C and his son feel 
the product literature issued by Foresters misled them into expecting a better performance 
and the inadequate management of the funds led to the poor returns. 
What happened
Mr C took advice from a third party financial adviser, following which he opened a Youngster 
Bond for his son in late 2009 and a Friendly Bond for himself in early 2010. The bonds were 
originally operated by Tunbridge Wells Equitable Friendly Society (TWEFS) trading as The 
Childrens Mutual but were taken over by Foresters in 2013. 
Mr Cs bond had a ten year term, a minimum guaranteed value of £2,604 and a monthly 
contribution of £25. Mr Cs sons bond also had a £25 monthly contribution, with a 14 year 
term and a minimum guaranteed value of £3,738. They operated as with-profits endowment 
savings policies investing in the TWEFS with-profits life and endowment fund. 
Mr C and his son surrendered their bonds in January 2020 after two other bonds held by 
family members only returned their guaranteed payments. In a letter dated 13 January 2020 
he explained the performance had been appalling, without any prospect of recovery.  
Foresters treated Mr Cs concerns as a complaint. On 21 January 2020, it issued a final 
response regarding both bonds to Mr C explaining that it rejected the complaint. It said the 
bonds did not provide guarantees in respect of the performance, but the policy 
documentation supplied by TWEFS had made clear that the only guaranteed value at the 
end of the respective policy terms were the minimum sums assured given at the outset. 
Foresters also explained that it acquired TWEFS business in 2013. It said it wasnt liable for 
the actions of TWEFS before that date. Since it had taken over the bonds, it had 
considerably reduced the annual management charges that had previously applied to the 
bonds, as well as paying a £53m cash injection into the TWEFS fund. 
It said it did so with the aim of improving the investment prospects and security of benefits 
for policyholders such as Mr C. It confirmed the annual management charge for the bonds 
had been 1.25% since 2017, one of the lowest in the current market for bonds of this type. 
Mr C said they remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint. Mr C referred the 
complaint about both bonds to this service on his and his sons behalf. He said, in summary:
their complaint is that The Childrens Mutual trading as TWEFS gave forecasts that it 
claimed was achievable, but the performance fell way short of what was set out;
TWEFS paid annual bonuses in 2009 and 2010 but no further bonuses were made 
during the next ten-year term of Mr Cs policy;
though they do accept the annual bonuses were not guaranteed, the literature led 
them to believe that a bonus would be paid most years;
the financial markets were stable in the years the policies were held;
they would have cashed in the policies earlier but the encouraging financial climate 
and the hope of bonuses stopped them from doing so;
an external published report from an institute of actuaries confirmed that after 
TWEFS fund was acquired by Foresters, it would likely require a period of seven 
years before any bonuses could be paid to policyholders;
this must indicate they were misadvised in the first place to take out the bonds, as 
TWEFS must have had major problems with the underlying fund for many years.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He felt the 
policy documentation contained clear warnings and explained that the confirmed guaranteed 
sum assured was the only guaranteed amount payable at the end of the policy term. There 
was a risk the amount payable at maturity could be less than the total amount paid into the 
bonds.
Also, he considered the documentation fairly explained that the illustrations were only 
examples and not guaranteed returns; the maturity value of the bonds would depend on the 
performance of the investments. He therefore didnt think Foresters had acted unfairly.  
Mr C and his son requested for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. They 
provided a further detailed letter setting out their objections. Im not going to repeat these 
here in full, but I have considered the comments in their entirety. In summary, Mr C and his 
son said:
 
they had previously experienced a satisfactory outcome with other with-profits 
endowment TWEFS investments;
they had also had a shortfall with other policies of this nature;
however, the two policies complained of now experienced a larger scale of loss, and 
this prompted their complaints about both the advice and the information given;
they felt the fact the fund hadnt achieved its aim of paying annual bonuses in the 
most years was disappointing;
Foresters made reductions in the fees and a one-off payment into the fund for each 
policy but these were insufficient to result in annual bonuses being paid;
that Foresters was able to make these reductions suggests to them that its level of 
fees previously charged was unjustified;
it has been suggested that the poor performance was due to the banking crisis of 
2008 however, this predated the investments;
they expected the performance of the fund to roughly reflect market conditions, 
however the funds underperformance contrasts with the record bull run experienced 
by the equity markets over the ten year period of their investments;
on that basis, they believe the performance of the fund managers to have fallen well 
below acceptable levels and compensation for that is appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I note that a separate complaint has been pursued by Mr C in respect of the 
financial advice given recommending the investments. I wont be considering that here. This 
complaint is restricted to the actions or inactions of TWEFS, for which Foresters takes 
responsibility and thereafter, Foresters operation of the policy. Foresters says it isnt liable for what TWEFS set out at the outset, and it believes its liability 
is from 2013 onwards, when it agreed to take over the operation of the bonds and the 
underlying TWEFS fund. 
Be that as it may, having looked at what was set out in 2009 and 2010 I dont believe that 
aspect of the complaint should succeed against Foresters in any event. The majority of the 
complaint points that Mr C makes now relate to what was recommended at the outset, and 
that relates to the advice received by the third party financial adviser  which is the subject of 
the separate complaint at this service.  
In those circumstances, TWEFS had no responsibility to make sure the policies were 
suitable for Mr C or his son - that fell under the remit of the financial adviser. It did, however, 
have a responsibility to ensure the documentation it provided about the bonds was clear and 
not misleading.
For each bond, the documentation clearly states the guaranteed minimum amount Mr C and 
his son would receive. And this amount was lower than the total premiums to be paid if the 
policies ran to their full terms. Any amount paid in excess of the guaranteed values would 
depend on bonuses added to each policy, long term investment performance and the effect 
of the deduction of charges in the fund. The illustration included projected returns using 
assumed growth rates approved by the industry regulator, but explained these were not 
guaranteed and were not minimum or maximum amounts.
Each illustration noted:
These figures are only examples and not guaranteed - they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What [you/the child] will get back depends on how your 
investments grow and on the tax treatment of the investment. [You/the child] could 
get back more or less than this. Dont forget that inflation would reduce what could be 
bought in the future with the amounts shown. If [you/the child] have made all the 
payments due under the plan, [you/the child] are guaranteed to receive at least the 
minimum sum assured when it ends.
I recognise that TWEFS went on to experience serious financial difficulties, it was for this 
reason that the fund was taken over by Foresters in 2013. But I cant hold Foresters liable for 
that. Decisions on the additions and amounts of bonuses was a matter for TWEFS to decide 
at its own discretion  and the prevailing circumstances meant it did not add bonuses after 
2010. At that time, Foresters also closed the fund to any further with-profits policies. 
This service has specific rules around what types of complaints fall within our jurisdiction. 
Those rules say we can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a business 
in carrying on a number of regulated activities. Investment performance isnt, of itself, a 
regulated activity; however, concerns with an investment may arise from an activity that is 
included, such as advice about an investment or other ancillary activities including providing 
information about an investment.
I do understand Mr Cs dissatisfaction at the lack of financial return that he and his son had 
hoped for, but I have not seen sufficient evidence to conclude the information provided about 
the policies was misleading or breached any regulatory guidelines applying at the time such 
that I could hold Foresters liable for any consequential loss of expectation now. 
By the time Foresters took over the operation of the policies, it did take steps to bring about 
improvements to the fund, by making both a capital investment and later in 2016 by 
appointing a third party fund management firm. From that date onwards, there has been a 
continually positive fund growth.  Foresters has shown that it did reduce annual management charges for TWEFS policies in 
the fund. However, as Mr C is aware, Foresters has not been able to award bonuses on 
policies within the TWEFS fund for many years, in order to stabilise the fund. I dont find 
Foresters to have acted unreasonably in taking that step, when it is not obliged under the 
terms of the respective bonds it took over in 2013 to add bonuses. 
My final decision
Though I know this decision will not be what Mr C and his son have hoped for, I am unable 
to uphold their complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman