DRN-2113050
The complaint
Mrs I complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs I took out in July 1997. 
It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs I disagreed, but 
neither she nor her representative provided any further information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs I's case.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs I's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs I aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. I've seen a copy of the application form Mrs I signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section headed "Payment and Purchase Protection. The form does not specifically say that 
PPI is optional, but I consider it is reasonably clear, from the need to tick a box, that it was 
not a requirement of applying for the credit card.
Its possible that the form was pre-completed by the member of staff and that Mrs I was just 
asked to sign it. If this was the case, Im not persuaded that Mrs I wouldn't have been able to 
check through the application before she signed it. The form, and the section about PPI, was 
quite brief, so I think she would have had time to read this, even though she was in a store.
So, overall and on balance, I think AXA did enough to make it clear to Mrs I that she had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that she chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs I, so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs I got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs I about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Is circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. As she could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things would have affected her decision take out PPI.
Mrs I told us she wouldnt have received any pay from her employer if she couldnt work due 
to sickness or an accident. The PPI would have covered her payments until she returned to 
work, or the balance was repaid. It also covered her if shed become unemployed. So it 
could have been a useful benefit for her in her circumstances and given her peace of mind 
that her payments would be covered. 
Shes mentioned she had a valuable car. But the policy would have meant she didnt have to 
sell that just to meet her store card repayments. And shes told us she had private health 
care insurance, but I find it unlikely that this would have duplicated the PPI policy benefits.
It looks like the PPI was affordable and Mrs I could have cancelled it at any time.
Overall, I dont think Mrs I has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman