DRN-3484381
The complaint
Mr S complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his 
claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S had been a loyal customer, taking out a home emergency policy with RSA for five 
consecutive years.  Mr S said, when my boiler was leaking I asked for assistance but was 
told I had to pay a call out [charge of] £250 and pay for repairs [of] up to £500. Mr S was 
unhappy with what he was told, so raised a complaint and he appointed his own contractor 
to carry out the repair. Mr S has asked for all his monies back.
RSA said you advised there was an issue with your boiler. During the claim assessment, 
you advised us that your boiler had not been serviced for around four years. Therefore, we 
explained that we would need to withhold funds from you prior to sending an engineer to 
your property as your boiler had not been maintained and serviced in line with your policy 
requirements.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said Mr S hadnt had his boiler 
serviced in the four years leading up to the claim. He thought RSA had acted fairly in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy by asking Mr S to reserve an amount upfront 
which would be payable if the damage was caused due to a lack of maintenance. Mr S 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to disappoint Mr S, as I am not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
RSA asked Mr S to reserve an amount upfront which would be payable if the damage was 
caused due to a lack of maintenance. It did this as it said Mr S hadnt had his boiler serviced 
in the four years leading up to the claim which it said meant Mr S hadnt met the 
requirements of his policy.
I have checked the call Mr S had with RSAs call agent when he made his claim. From the 
dialogue they had, I think RSA was reasonable to determine that Mr S hadnt had his boiler 
serviced for at least four years.
So, I have checked the policy to see whether RSA has acted fairly. In section 7 primary 
heating system, the policy lists some exclusions which includes lack of maintenance or 
neglect by you (you may be asked to reserve funds if your boiler has not been serviced in 
line with the manufacturers instructions). I think the average, reasonable person would tend 
to have their boiler serviced annually. Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to suggest why he 
didnt need his boiler serviced regularly  such as manufacturers instructions setting out a 
less frequent servicing requirement. I can see Mr S hadnt taken out the additional cover to 
get RSA to arrange his annual boiler service, so Mr S wouldve needed to arrange this 
privately with a qualified gas engineer.
As there wasnt evidence of regular servicing of the boiler, I think RSA has been reasonable 
in assuming that the issue with the boiler could possibly have been caused by a lack of 
maintenance. Therefore, I think RSA were fair to set out the right expectations on the call 
that Mr S may end up paying for the costs of the repair if the fault was proven to be due to a 
lack of maintenance. So, it asked for Mr S to reserve the funds ahead of its visit. I think this 
was fair and consistent with the terms and conditions. If the fault didnt turn out to be due to 
a lack of maintenance, then I dont have any reason to doubt that RSA wouldve covered the 
claim.
Mr S said he would think about this and would get back to RSA, but he never did. So, I cant 
see that RSA has done anything wrong. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman