DRN-3964835
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
247 Money Group Limited, trading as 247 Money.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I dont think 247 Money need to take any action here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then 247 Money, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was eight 
years old and had already completed about 59,860 miles. So, I think some wear and tear 
could be expected and that the car wouldnt be in perfect condition as would perhaps be the 
case with a new car.
247 Money are only responsible for faults that are present or developing in the car when it is 
supplied. 
The inspection completed on 7 July 2022 at a main dealer didnt identify any faults with the 
car. The first time faults with the struts or engine mountings were noted was in September 
2022 and by that time Mr F had completed over 7,300 miles in the vehicle.
I understand Mr F says he noticed the grinding noise from the struts as soon as he drove 
away from the dealership with his new car in June 2022. Hes also provided information from 
an internet search he did a few days later on those sort of noises. Ive thought about whether 
that demonstrates there was a problem from the beginning, but I dont think theres sufficient 
information to persuade me that was likely to be the case. I think its likely a main dealer 
would have noted any problems, especially as the diagnostic included an inspection of the 
steering and suspension. And, by the time the fault was diagnosed, Mr F had completed 
over 7,000 miles in the car, and I think its unlikely he would have been able to do that if the 
problems had been developing from inception of the agreement.
So, I am not persuaded that there was a problem developing or present with the struts or 
engine mounting brackets when the car was supplied.
Im also not persuaded there was a fault with the infotainment system or the speakers when 
the car was supplied. Thats because no issue was identified in the July 2022 inspection and 
also because I think electrical problems tend to happen quickly. So, if there was a problem 
developing at the point of supply I think it would have been noticeable much earlier. 
Mr F has explained that there was also an engine leak on the car when he picked it up. 247 
Money havent provided their view on that issue and its not something that was identified in 
the quotations received from the BMW specialist in October 2022. The comments on those 
quotes related to engine mountings and not to any leak. If Mr F wants 247 Money to 
consider a complaint about an engine leak hell need to raise that issue with them first and 
provide them with evidence of the problem.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman