DRN-3130161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim for 
a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has been brought to us by a representative but, for ease, Ive 
referred only to Mr and Mrs B in my final decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV, on 17 
September 2020. They were due to travel abroad the following day, 18 September 2020, on 
a holiday which had been booked in January 2020. 
On 16 September 2020, the government announced that restrictions on movement would be 
implemented in the area where Mr and Mrs B live because of the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. This prevented them leaving the area without a reasonable excuse from 6pm on 
17 September 2020.  
Mr and Mrs B therefore cancelled their holiday and made a claim for their irrecoverable flight 
costs under their policy with URV.
URV said Mr and Mrs Bs policy didnt cover cancellation of a trip due to Covid-19 or 
government restrictions, so it refused to pay their claim. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to URV before bringing their complaint to the attention 
of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think URV had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. 
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. URVs obligations under 
its contract with Mr and Mrs B are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions set out 
within their insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides for URV to pay for a policyholders irrecoverable costs if a 
holiday is cancelled for one of a list of specific, insured reasons. These are:
you or anyone insured on this policy, became ill with an infectious disease within 14 
days of your trip starting (including contracting Covid-19);
you, a travel companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill (excluding contracting Covid-19), was injured 
or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you, or a travel companion were called for jury service or required as a witness in a 
court of law;
you, or a travel companion were made redundant;
you, or a travel companion had leave withdrawn and are in the armed forces 
(including reserves and territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing 
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of the government;
as a result of fire, earthquake, storm, flood, riot or civil unrest; the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or comparable prohibitive regulations by the 
government of the country you were due to visit and within 50 miles of your chosen 
destination, change the travel advice to advise against all or all but essential travel;
your passport, or the passport of a travel companion, being stolen during the seven 
days before your booked date of departure.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy goes on to specifically state that cancellation claims arising from the 
following are not covered;
due to FCO, government or local authority advice relating to any infectious disease 
including Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cancelled because of government advice/restrictions relating to 
Covid-19 which were imposed in the area they lived. So, their claim isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy. 
There might be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCO advice, I might think it would 
be fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the 
policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
ask URV to do so here. 
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy, which Ive outlined, above clearly set out the limits of the cover provided. 
Ive also considered the Insurance Product Information Document, which would have been 
provided to Mr and Mrs B at the time the policy was sold. This clearly says, at page one, 
under the heading What is not insured?:There is no cover if you are claiming due to FCO, government or local authority 
advice relating to any infectious disease including Covid-19.
I understand Mr and Mrs B would have been breaking the law if theyd gone ahead and 
travelled on their holiday regardless. However, the situation they found themselves in simply 
isnt one thats covered under the insurance policy which they held, and there arent any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman