DRN-4251328
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited only agreed to pay a 
proportionate settlement of a claim made under their travel insurance policy. Theyre also
unhappy with the overall service they received whilst abroad including unreasonable delays.
All references to Admiral include its medical assistance team.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by
Admiral (the policy). They travelled abroad in May 2022. Unfortunately, whilst away, Mrs P
became unwell. She was hospitalised and received urgent medical care.
After receiving a report from Mrs Ps GP, Admiral agreed to cover 80% of the expenses
incurred. Thats because it says Mrs P didnt declare some medical conditions when taking
out the policy  so made a qualifying misrepresentation. If these conditions had been
declared, Admiral says it wouldve charged more for the policy  so it decided to
proportionately settle the claim.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to Admiral. They also raised concerns about the service
received by Admiral whilst abroad, after it was notified that Mrs P needed medical attention 
including delays.
Admiral partially upheld their complaint. It accepted that there were service failings,
apologised for this and offered Mr and Mrs P £300 compensation in recognition of the
distress and inconvenience caused. However, Admiral maintained its decision to
proportionately settle the complaint.
Mr and Mrs P referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator
looked into what happened. She didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and didnt
recommend Admiral do anything more in this case. Mr and Mrs P disagreed. So, their
complaint was referred to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2023 setting out my reasons why I was intending to 
partially uphold this complaint  an extract of which is set out below. 

At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr and
Mrs P have, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues
here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an
informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because
Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to
be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Proportionately settling the claim
When considering whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably, Ive taken into account
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as I think its
relevant here. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (so in this case, Admiral) has to show it would
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Its Admirals position that when taking out the policy and answering the medical questions,
Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So, it only agreed to
cover 80% of the claimed costs. For the reasons set out below, Im satisfied Admirals
decision to only cover a percentage of the claim is, in principle, fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P applied for the policy online. Ive been provided with the sales process journey
they followed when applying for the policy, including the questions they were asked at the
time. The questions included:
Have you, or anyone to be named on the policy, ever been diagnosed with or treated
for any:
Psychological conditions such as stress, anxiety, depression, or eating disorders?
And:
Within the last 2 years, have you or anyone to be named on the policy:
Been prescribed medication, or attended any type of medical facility such as a
medical practitioners surgery? Or attended a hospital as an out-patient or in-patient?
Im satisfied these questions are clear.
If any of these questions were answered yes, Im satisfied that the applicants are then
asked to input the medical conditions and theyre asked further, specific questions about
these.
Its accepted that Mrs P declared mild depression and anxiety and depression. And Admiral
has taken no issue with the way in which she answered the follow up questions relating to
those conditions.
However, the completed GP report dated 30 May 2022 also lists other psychological
conditions which Mrs P had been diagnosed with in 2007 and 2014. The report also reflects
that Mrs P had either been prescribed medication, received treatment or had a consultation
with a doctor for other medical conditions not disclosed when taking out the policy. I think
Admiral was entitled to rely on the contents of the GP report when determining whether Mrs
P had answered questions about her medical conditions with reasonable care.
And, having done so, Im satisfied that Admiral has fairly concluded that Mrs P didntdisclose all her medical conditions as she ought to have in response to the questions asked.
And, because of this, Im satisfied that Admiral has fairly concluded that she made a
qualifying disclosure as she acted carelessly.
Admiral says had Mrs P declared the other conditions, the policy wouldve still been offered
but Mr and Mrs P wouldve paid around £22 more for the annual premium. And its provided
evidence showing how its reached that conclusion. Im satisfied that Admiral has accurately
rescreened Mrs Ps medical conditions by answering the follow up questions she wouldve
been asked if shed declared her other medical conditions in the way most favourable to her.
And that this resulted in a higher weighting being applied to the premium resulting in the
increase in premium.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P only paid around 80% of the correct premium. And I dont think, in
principle and subject to my provisional findings further below, Admiral has acted unfairly by
offering to proportionately settle the claim made on the policy and paying 80% of the claimed
expenses.
Admiral has confirmed that the claim totalled approximately £24,600 and its agreed to pay
80% of that amount in the region of £19,400.
Mr and Mrs P personally paid around £5,200 (including ambulance fees, a hospital room for
Mr P and return flights to the UK)  which Admiral hasnt taken issue with and seems to
accept the sums as claimed on the claim form. And as thats more than 20% of the total
expenses, Admiral has also agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs P around £280. I think thats
fair and reasonable.
Looking at the amount of around £5,200 claimed by Mr and Mrs P on their claim form, this
includes the amount Mr P initially contributed to the ambulance for Mrs P. Weve also
received a remittance advice from Admiral showing its contribution was paid in mid-February
2023. So, whilst I know Mr and Mrs P raised concerns in February 2023 that they were being
chased for payment for the ambulance costs, based on what Ive seen, I think this has now
been settled.
The service received by Admiral
Admiral has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. And it must handle insurance
claims fairly and promptly. It agrees it shouldve provided Mr and Mrs P with better service.
In its final response letter dated July 2022, it accepts that:
- there were delays in providing Mr and Mrs P with consent forms to enable it to
contact Mrs Ps GP to obtain a medical report.
- it didnt explain to Mr and Mrs P that it was still carrying out checks to verify whether
cover was in place. And that it wouldnt be able to take over payment of costs or
begin arrangements to repatriate them back to the UK until this was done.
-  it failed to manage Mr and Mrs Ps expectations in relation to the checks which had
been completed and still outstanding.
- it wasnt proactive in providing Mr and Mrs P with updates, resulting in them having to
chase Admiral for information on numerous occasions.
- it provided Mr and Mrs P with inconsistent information about whether the guarantee
of payment had been accepted by the treating hospital  including for Mr Ps stay
there.- there hadnt been a seamless transfer between case handlers, meaning Mr and Mrs 
P had to repeat themselves during calls.
Its offered £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs P to reflect the distress and inconvenience
they experienced as a result. For the reasons set out below, Im intending to find that isnt
fair and reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs P in this case.
I know Admiral initially agreed to provide cover for initial medical costs and issued the
hospital with a guarantee of payment. But after it was notified that Mrs P needed to be
transferred to another hospital for scans and to see a neurologist, I dont think it unfairly
sought an updated medical report before agreeing to further coverage. It then promptly
agreed for this to be covered under the existing guarantee of payment.
Further, once it became clear that Mrs Ps condition may have been more serious than first
thought, with Mrs P having been transferred to the intensive care unit and an updated
guarantee of payment requested for $9,000, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly by seeking to
verify cover. Particularly as an updated medical report from the treating doctor at the time set
out pre-existing medical conditions which Mrs P hadnt disclosed when taking out the policy.
And whilst Mr and Mrs P says that Admiral agreed to initially cover the cost of first
ambulance and Mr Ps room at the hospital, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it
was unfair of Admiral to later conclude that it needed verify cover for these to be considered.
Ive seen reference to Mr and Mrs P saying that Mrs P wouldnt have continued with
treatment if theyd known at the outset that costs might not be covered. But given Mrs Ps
condition and the medical advice being received, on the balance of probabilities, I dont think
thats likely. And even before Mr P had contacted Admiral for assistance, hed already
arranged for an ambulance to take Mrs P to hospital.
I dont think Admiral acted unfairly by awaiting the medical report from the treating doctor
and then wanting to obtain a medical report from Mrs Ps GP to validate cover. This is also
standard industry practice. When requesting medical assistance, its not unusual for insurers
to want to check whether those insured under the policy correctly answered questions about
their medical history when applying for the policy before validating cover.
However, having carefully considered the available information, Im satisfied on the balance
of probabilities that there were delays caused by Admiral in obtaining Mrs Ps medical report
which ultimately resulted in a delay to Mr and Mrs Ps repatriation. Thats because:
The treating doctor advised in a medical report dated 26 May 2022 (local time) /
27 May 2022 (GMT) that Mrs P was fit to fly on a commercial airline. She and Mr P
ended up departing the country they were staying in for the UK on 31 May 2022
(local time).
Admiral hadnt yet formally retro screened Mrs Ps undisclosed medical conditions by
the time Mr and Mrs P departed the country they were staying in. However, if it had
acted promptly and without unreasonable delay, Im satisfied on the balance of
probabilities that its likely Admiral wouldve been in receipt of Mrs Ps GP report -
and a retro screening of her undisclosed medical conditions wouldve been carried
out - by around the time the treating doctor advised that she was fit to fly.
Admiral accepts it delayed sending Mrs P a consent form to obtain a GP report and it
ought to have been sent on 23 May 2022. Ive got no reason to think that the consent
form wouldnt have been promptly completed by, or on behalf of, Mrs P and returned
to Admiral as it had been after it was eventually sent to her four days after it ought tohave been.
Mrs Ps GP surgery was able to return the completed GP report to Admiral a day
after it was requested. Admiral has said that it can take up to 30 days. That may be
the case but here the GP surgery efficiently dealt with the request as it was urgent
and theres no compelling reason why it wouldnt have done so if the request for the
GP report had been made earlier on 23 or 24 May 2022. So, at the latest, Im
satisfied that the GP report wouldve been sent to Admiral by 25 May 2022.
Admiral was able to promptly refer the medical report to its underwriters to carry out a
retrospective medical screening based on Mrs Ps undisclosed medical conditions
and receive confirmation that the policy wouldve still been offered to Mr and Mrs P at
an additional cost within 48 hours.
I can see no compelling reason why a similar turnaround time wouldnt have
been met if Admirals underwriter had received the information a few days earlier
than it did. And this being the case, Im satisfied that Admiral wouldve been able to
confirm to Mr and Mrs P that there was cover under the policy  albeit with Mr and
Mrs P being responsible for 20% of the costs  around the same time the treating
doctor confirmed that Mrs P was fit to fly.
In my experience, its standard industry practice for the insurers medical assistance
team to require its own medical team to consider the treating doctors
recommendation about whether the patient is fit to fly. In this case, there are notes
made by Admirals medical team recommending a medical escort on the flight home
as there hadnt been a formal diagnosis of what caused Mrs P to become
hospitalised. But its also reflected that Mrs P could fly home without a medical escort
but it wouldnt be liable if shed had any problems during the flight.
The medical reports from the treating doctor form around that time suggest that there
had been no deterioration in health, and Mrs P was still able to make a trip back to
her home country. Given the situation Mr and Mrs P found themselves in, the advice
of the treating doctor and their clear desire to want to get back to the UK, I think its
likely that they wouldve travelled back to the UK as soon as they could, even if that
meant not waiting for a medical escort to be flown out to them to be escorted back to
the UK. Afterall, Mr and Mrs P received the same advice from Admiral before they
ended up flying back to the UK at the end of May 2022 and it didnt deter them.
So, I think its likely that had Admiral not caused unreasonable delays here, Mrs P
wouldve been ready to be repatriated at some time by 27 / 28 May 2022.
However, there wouldve still been many variables to consider including the
availability of flights and obtaining clearance from the airline to repatriate Mr and Mrs
P home. Given the frequency of flights between the city in the UK to which they were
travelling back to and the nearest local airport to them in the country they were
residing, I think its likely that they wouldve been able to have secured flights back to
the UK by the end of 28 May 2022.
So, Im satisfied Admiral caused Mr and Mrs Ps repatriation to be delayed by around three 
days and that this ended up causing them additional and unnecessary expenses (having had 
to contribute 20% to claimed expenses incurred between 29 and 31 May 2022 inclusive). 
Theres no way of me knowing whether the cost of the flights back to the UK wouldve been 
more or less expensive if theyd been repatriated on 28 May instead of 31 May 2022. Given that it was a similar time of year and bookings close to the departure date are usually more 
expensive, and unless Im provided any more information to the contrary, I think its fair and
reasonable to assume that flight costs would be similar.
I am, however, satisfied that being back in the UK three days earlier, without the uncertainty
of whether the claim was covered, and not knowing when theyd be able to leave the hospital
to be repatriated to the UK, wouldve prevented Mr and Mrs P a significant amount of
distress and inconvenience.
The GP report reflects that Mrs P lives with anxiety and depression and I accept that this
wouldve been exacerbated by the delays, not knowing what was happening and not
receiving call backs from Admiral as promised. This wouldve also added to Mr Ps worry.
Mr and Mrs P had to rely on family members to book their flights back to the UK on 31 May
2022 as Admiral hadnt verified their claim by this stage. Other family members were also
understandably worried about what was happening to Mr and Mrs P. Those family members
arent eligible complainants to this complaint because they arent named on the schedule of
insurance so theres no contract of insurance between them and Admiral. So, I cant award
compensation for any distress and inconvenience they wouldve personally experienced.
However, Im satisfied that their concern wouldve impacted the distress Mr and Mrs P was
feeling  having to rely on family to arrange flights back to the UK rather than Admiral.
Mr and Mrs P told Admiral that there were security personnel at the hospital preventing Mr P
leaving. Ive got no reason to doubt what they say about that and as such he had no clean
clothes and says he was running out of medication he brought with him. So, some of this
worry wouldve also been alleviated if Mr and Mrs P had been repatriated sooner, as I think
they reasonably ought to have been. That includes Mr and Mrs P having to provide an
indemnity confirming that they would be responsible for hospital expenses, which wouldnt
have been required if the GP report had been requested when it reasonably ought to have
been, resulting in the retro screening being undertaken more quickly.
Its also likely that Mr and Mrs P wouldve received more proactive assistance because they
say  and it looks like Admiral accepts  that they were left to deal with the hospital
themselves even though staff spoke little English. This wouldve also unnecessarily
exacerbated their worry, stress and inconvenience. Along with the other service failings
already accepted by Admiral which Im satisfied wouldve cumulated to make an already
difficult situation much worse than it needed to be for Mr and Mrs P. The call notes provided
by Admiral show that Mr and Mrs P were becoming increasingly frustrated and on 29 and 30
May 2022, its reflected that Mr P was feeling desperate and at his wits end. I can
understand why given  as Admiral already accepts  Mr and Mrs P werent being kept up to
date or being told what was happening and the information they were still waiting on.
Putting things right
I intend to direct Admiral to:
- reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the 20% share of the costs they contributed to medical
and hospital costs incurred for the period 29  31 May 2022 inclusive.
- pay Mr and Mrs P £900 for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a
result of the poor serviced received by Admiral and unreasonable delays. Admiral
can deduct from this amount the £300 it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs P in its final
response letter if this has already been paid..
I invited both parties to provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs P replied asking how much theyd be receiving from Admiral in monetary terms. 
Without knowing, they said they were unable to accept the provisional decision. However, 
they were willing to accept £900 as compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator contacted Admiral, asking it to confirm Mr and Mrs Ps contribution to 
hospital and medical costs for the period 29 - 31 May 2022 (inclusive), in monetary terms. 
Admiral hasnt responded or provided any comments in response to my provisional decision. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral hasnt responded to my provisional decision and Mr and Mrs P havent provided 
any substantive comments about my provisional findings, Im satisfied theres no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. 
Because of this, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set 
out above and forms part of my provisional decision), I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
I know Mr and Mrs P would like to know the exact amount theyd be receiving from Admiral, 
but Admiral hasnt confirmed this to our Service. However, I dont think this prevents me from 
making a final determination in this complaint. 
As the parties will see, I have, however, set out below a further direction for Admiral to 
provide a breakdown of the payment it will be reimbursing to Mr and Mrs P for the period 29 
 31 May 2022 inclusive. 
Putting things right
I direct Admiral to:
A. reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the 20% share of the costs they contributed to medical
and hospital costs incurred for the period 29  31 May 2022 inclusive.
B. provide Mr and Mrs P a written breakdown of how the amount in A. above has been 
calculated.
C. pay Mr and Mrs P £900 for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a 
result of the poor serviced received by Admiral and unreasonable delays. Admiral 
can deduct from this amount the £300 it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs P in its final 
response letter if this has already been paid.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and intend to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)
Limited to put things right in the manner set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman