DRN-4136214
The complaint
Mr B complains that he the compensation he has been offered by The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) for its provision of inappropriate advice, or 
insufficient information, about making some additional pension contributions, is unfair.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company. But in 
this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as if it were with, and from, 
Mr B himself.
In 1990 Mr B was provided with advice and/or information by the Co-operative Insurance 
Society (CIS). That firm is now the responsibility of Royal London, so it is Royal London 
that needs to deal with this complaint. In this decision, again for ease, I will simply refer to 
Royal London as the business that Mr B has dealt with.
The advice and/or information that was provided to Mr B was regarding making some 
additional pension contributions. Mr B was already a member of his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) and so essentially had the choice to make free-standing additional 
voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a plan provided by Royal London, or instead he could 
make additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) to a scheme offered by his OPS. Mr B 
accepted Royal Londons advice and started paying FSAVCs in July 1990.
Royal London says that during the 1990s, the financial services industrys regulators had 
concerns that some people who were advised to pay into a private FSAVC policy rather than 
join their employers in-house AVC scheme may have been incorrectly advised. 
Consequently, the financial services industry was instructed to open a review process for 
customers who expressed concerns regarding this. It says that during the review it accepted 
that the advice it had provided to customers such as Mr B might have been faulty, and so it 
offered redress to affected consumers in line with the regulators scheme. It appears that 
Mr B did not participate in that review exercise. 
So Royal London has asked its preferred outsourcer to calculate whether Mr B lost out as a 
result of the advice he was given by the firm. Royal London provided its outsourcer with the 
basis on which the calculations should be made, including an assumption that the charges 
Mr B would need to have paid on his AVC plan would amount to 1.3% per annum. The 
results of the calculation suggested that Mr B hadnt lost out as a result of being advised to 
pay FSAVCs, rather than AVCs to the OPS.
Mr B didnt agree with the basis on which the calculation had been performed. He said that 
the estimated charges of 1.3% should only be used when accurate data was unavailable. He 
said that for his scheme Royal London could have obtained the actual charges that would 
have needed to be paid. So he asked Royal London to update its calculation. Since 
Royal London declined to do so, he brought his complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He was given some 
information by Mr B about the likely charges that would have applied if he had paid AVCs. 
The investigator thought that information was reasonable, and asked Royal London to 
recalculate whether Mr B should be paid any compensation.
Royal London then approached the AVC provider directly for further information on the 
charges that Mr B would have needed to pay. It agreed that information suggested the 
charges were less than the default rate it had previously used when looking at whether Mr B 
had lost out. But Mr B pointed out that the new information Royal London had used wasnt 
entirely applicable to the type of investments he held in his FSAVC plan.
The investigator agreed. He asked Royal London to request more relevant charges 
information from the AVC provider and use it to recalculate whether Mr B had lost out. And 
he said that Royal London should pay Mr B £500 for the inconvenience hed been caused. 
Royal London hasnt responded to that last assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Royal London hasnt contested Mr Bs complaint that the advice, or information, he was 
given when he was sold the FSAVC plan failed to meet the regulators requirements. So 
I dont need to consider what happened at the time. Instead, in this decision, I need to 
decide what would be fair and reasonable for Royal London to do in order to put things right 
for Mr B.
In circumstances such as these I would generally think it fair and reasonable that a business 
should pay compensation in line with the guidance issued by the regulator when it ordered a 
review of FSAVC sales in the late 1990s. The FSAVC review guidance was not intended to 
compensate consumers for losses arising solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC 
funds. Any loss found relates to the higher charges paid in comparison to an AVC. So any 
loss is calculated by using the same benchmark to model the growth of both the AVC and 
FSAVC funds, each net of their specific charges  and working out the difference in value.
So to accurately complete that assessment, it is necessary to establish, or estimate, the 
charges that would have been paid had a consumer taken made AVC payments instead. 
The guidance published in May 2000 said the following that I think is relevant here;6.16.2 Where there is a choice of in-house AVC funds firms should assume that 
the investor would have invested in the fund that most closely relates to 
their FSAVC fund choice. If the investor has switched FSAVC funds then 
Finns should use the fund which the investor has invested in for the 
longest period of time.
6.17 Firms should establish the charges that the investor would have incurred in 
the in-house AVC arrangement and those incurred on the FSAVC.
6.17.1 The full history of the charges that the investor would have incurred in the 
in-house AVC arrangements should be collected if possible.
6.17.2 There may be some in-house AVC arrangements which have no explicit 
charges at all (i.e. there are no explicit charges met by employer or 
investor), perhaps because they offer only a with-profit fund. In these 
cases the total charges borne by the investor on the in-house AVC 
arrangement should be assumed for the purposes of loss assessment to 
be equivalent to an annual management charge of 1.3% per annum. 
(Although the FSA expects firms normally to use this assumption, they may 
use an alternative assumption if there is demonstrable evidence that this 
would be appropriate.)
6.17.6 If firms have used the default assumption for charges they should explain 
this to investors when informing them of the outcome of their review.
When it carried out the loss assessment on Mr Bs FSAVC plan, Royal London told him that 
it had instructed the outsourcer to allow for charges of 1.3% pa on the in-house AVC 
arrangement. But it didnt explain whether this was based on actual information, or the use of 
the default assumption.
Since that calculation was completed Mr B independently gathered some information from 
the AVC provider. That appeared to indicate that the actual charges he would have paid 
would have been much lower than the 1.3% pa that Royal London used in its calculations. 
And since our investigators assessment, Royal London appears to have contacted the AVC 
provider to also obtain some further information about charges.
The information that Royal London was sent by the AVC provider gave information about the 
charges that would have been paid on a with-profits plan. But Mr Bs FSAVC investments 
were held in a unit-linked plan. So in line with section 6.16.2 of the regulators guidance 
shown above, it would seem reasonable that some further information might be required 
from the AVC provider in order to complete the fair assessment, that I set out below, of any 
loss Mr B has suffered.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Royal London made any reasonable attempts, 
when first considering Mr Bs complaint, to obtain information about the charges he would 
have needed to pay on his AVC. Instead it seems that Royal London simply used the default 
rate offered by the regulations, for where the required charges information might be 
unavailable. I can understand why that has caused great disappointment to Mr B. What 
might have been a relatively simple matter to resolve, and for him to understand whether any 
compensation might be due, has been prolonged, and left Mr B needing to undertake 
additional work to identify the charges that would have applied. That shouldnt have been 
necessary, and should have been something that Royal London did on his behalf.So, like our investigator, I think that Royal London should pay Mr B some additional 
compensation for the inconvenience he has been caused here. I think a payment of £500 
would fairly represent the inconvenience Mr B was caused.
Putting things right
Royal London should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.  In 
line with the guidance, Royal London should establish, from the AVC provider, the charges 
that would likely have been paid by Mr B on investments similar to those he held in his 
FSAVC plan. Royal London should provide Mr B with copies of the charges information it 
receives from the AVC provider for his records.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Royal London should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Royal London should additionally pay Mr B £500 for the inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman