DRN-2685357
Complaint
Mr S has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable guarantor loan.  
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mr S with a guarantor loan in September 2013. The loan was for 
£3,500.00, secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 59.7% 
and due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £153.94. The total amount to be repaid was 
£9,236.40, which included interest and broker administration and lender fees totalling 
£5,736.40.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr S complaint. He told TFS Loans that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr S with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
such checks would have shown Mr S wasnt in a position to sustainably make the 
repayments. So he thought TFS Loans shouldnt have provided Mr S with this loan and 
upheld the complaint. 
TFS Loans disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that relevant to my determination of Mr S complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time TFS Loans lent to Mr S required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. TFS Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had 
to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr S. The existence of a guarantee and the 
potential for TFS Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr S, for the loan payments 
doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TFS Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS Loans has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S. 
During this assessment, Mr S confirmed that he received around £1,000.00 a month. TFS 
Loans says Mr S was living and home with parents and had no living expenses it has also 
said it carried out credit check on Mr S and allocated amounts to cover these commitments. The credit check showed that Mr S had defaulted on eight separate accounts including two 
in the calendar year leading up to this application. However, Mr S confirmed that these 
issues were in the past as he was now in full time employment and able to afford these 
monthly payments.
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check TFS Loans carried out and the content of its discussions with Mr S 
indicated Mr S had had significant difficulties with credit in the past. In these circumstances, I 
think that TFS Loans ought to have taken steps to verify Mr S monthly expenditure. In my 
view, the information on Mr S credit file suggested he may have been in financial difficulty. 
And bearing in mind just how many accounts had defaulted, I dont think that Mr S 
explanation that he would be able to afford this loan as he was now employed was in any 
way plausible and enough to address any affordability concerns. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
I accept that TFS Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Mr S guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made. But I dont think that these factors meant that Mr S would be able to sustainably 
make the payments given what the credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing signs of 
strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of time and 
there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make payments, I think 
its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and 
contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what TFS Loans had 
seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr S financial position in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he 
was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr S about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that TFS 
Loans needed to verify what Mr S said about his expenditure, like it did for his income. It 
could have done this by asking for information such as bank statements or copies of bills. 
And when it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr S 
did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that TFS Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr S to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr S with this loan.
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So Id usually need to go to decide whether it 
is more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mr S 
wouldve been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
But I dont think that it is necessary for me to do that here because as well as assessing the 
circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mr S by TFS Loans, I also think it is 
fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during the 
course of Mr S lending history with TFS Loans. And I think that when it provided this loan, 
TFS Loans ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Mr S financial position was such 
that further loans were simply unsustainable for him.
I say this because TFS Loans was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in any event, 
had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from the 
guarantor. 
Mr S defaulted accounts demonstrated that hed been having difficulty meeting his existing 
commitments for an extended period of time. Coupled with this the loan purpose recorded 
for this loan suggested Mr S would be using the proceeds from this loan to settle debts. So I 
think that TFS Loans ought to have realised that there was a strong possibility Mr S would 
either borrow further to repay this loan, or worse still default on it in the way hed done on 
eight previous occasions. And, in these circumstances, I dont see how TFS Loans didnt see 
that it would be increasing Mr S indebtedness in a way that was likely to be unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that TFS Loans failed to take account of Mr S 
circumstances suggesting that providing this loan would increase his indebtedness in a way 
that was always likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful for him. 
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some 
other way.  
So I find that TFS Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.  
Did Mr S lose out as a result of TFS Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr S indebtedness. This loan wasnt 
cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and he ended up paying interest 
and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Mr S lost out because TFS Loans unfairly provided him with this loan.  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr SIve carefully thought about what TFS Loans should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr S 
complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
refunding the interest, fees and charges (including any broker or loan 
administration fees) Mr S paid on his guarantor loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. TFS Loans Limited should pay 
compensation in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman