DRN-3580106
The complaint
Mrs Z has complained about Lloyds Bank PLC, saying that after she left the country 
someone opened a savings account in her name and used her other accounts.
What happened
In May 2013, Mrs Z opened a current and savings account with Lloyds in branch, and 
registered her driving licence as ID. She visited the branch a number of times in the months 
that followed.
In November 2013, a second savings account was opened, in the same branch. Mrs Zs 
accounts then got blocked, but were unblocked after someone visited the branch with 
Mrs Zs driving licence, and were recognised by the staff as being her.
In 2021, Mrs Z wrote to Lloyds asking about the status of her accounts, and declaring that if 
thered been any activity since she left the UK then it was fraud. Mrs Z says that she left the 
UK in August 2013 and never returned, and that she never opened the second savings 
account. She also disputes all the transactions on her accounts since then, the vast majority 
of which were in 2013 to 2015, the last being a deposit into her account in 2019. She feels 
her accounts were used fraudulently.
Lloyds explained that Mrs Z had disputed the transactions too late. They also found nothing 
to substantiate that the second savings account was fraudulent.
Mrs Z came to our service. She wanted Lloyds to give her details about the people and 
businesses whod paid money into her accounts or received money from her over the years.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs Z 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations, Mrs Z had 13 months from the date of each payment to 
report them to Lloyds as fraudulent. This was also set out in the terms and conditions for her 
accounts. So Lloyds didnt have to investigate any disputed payments that were raised more 
than 13 months after the fact.
I can see that the first time Mrs Z spoke to Lloyds about potential fraud was in 2021. And Im 
afraid that was too late. The vast bulk of the disputed payments were in 2013 to 2015, with 
the last being in 2019. Of course, I do acknowledge that Mrs Z was abroad. But she still had 
some responsibility to keep track of her own accounts. And the time between when the 
payments were made and when Mrs Z first disputed them was excessive  between six to 
eight years for the most part. So I dont think I have a good enough reason to set aside the 
time limits here. Its also worth bearing in mind that because of all the time thats passed, the 
information thats still available is more limited.
With that said, there also does not appear to have been fraud here. I understand that Mrs Z 
doesnt recall opening the second savings account or unblocking her accounts. But this was 
done by someone who looked and sounded like her, so much so that the branch staff  
whod met Mrs Z a number of times before  recognised them as being her. More 
importantly, they had Mrs Zs driving licence  the same one she used to identify herself 
when she first opened her current account. And they matched the photo on the licence. 
Mrs Z now says she lost that licence some time between opening her current account and 
leaving the country. But it is extremely unlikely that someone either stole or happened to find 
her licence who also happened to look and sound just like Mrs Z, such that they both 
matched her ID and that people who already knew Mrs Z recognised them as her.
The person using Mrs Zs account also had her genuine debit card, and the correct PIN, 
which they needed to make a number of the disputed payments. Its unlikely that someone 
would have been able to take Mrs Zs card without her noticing for eight years. And I dont 
know how they learned her PIN without her permission.
Further, there was no benefit to a fraudster opening a second savings account for Mrs Z. It 
didnt have an overdraft or any other facilities a fraudster could abuse, it was really just there 
to help Mrs Z increase her savings. And Mrs Z already had a savings account they couldve 
used instead of going through the effort of opening a new one. Its also important to note that 
in order to use the savings account, they had to deposit money into it  and its difficult to 
see why a fraudster would want to pay their victim money or help them save.
Indeed, Mrs Zs accounts received frequent large deposits over the years. And while most of 
them were eventually spent, they were often left in her accounts for significant amounts of 
time. I dont see why a fraudster would wait to pass such money on, as every day they 
waited theyd risk the accountholder discovering what had happened and the money getting 
frozen. Further, many hundreds of pounds worth of the deposits were not spent and were 
simply left in Mrs Zs possession. The very last transaction was a deposit into Mrs Zs 
savings. And again, I really dont see why a fraudster would pay their victim money. 
Whats more, Mrs Z had a very large amount of her own money saved in her first savings 
account. But this went untouched for nearly two years. If someone were trying to defraud 
Mrs Z, it is not plausible that they would leave such substantial sums of money for so long.
The transactions were frequently carried out in the same area as Mrs Zs previous genuine 
activity, such as at the same branch and cash machine and so on that she used before she 
says she left the country. And there does not seem to have been an overall pattern of fraud.I do understand that Mrs Z says she was abroad from August 2013. She has provided a 
boarding pass and flight details, though this does not have a year on it. She also provided a 
stamped passport, but this was from 2015 not 2013. Though even if I accept she did move 
abroad, its still plausible that she did so later than she recalls, or that she came back for a 
time, or that she had a representative who handled her UK accounts for her, and so on.
Taking everything into account, I have not found good reason to conclude that the second 
savings account was fraudulent or that there was fraud on Mrs Zs accounts in general.
I do appreciate that Mrs Z would really like more information about the individuals and 
businesses who paid her money or received money from her over the years. But Lloyds are 
just a bank, who act on the payment instructions theyre given. They cannot know the full 
reasons for every single payment in and out of every single customers account over the 
years. They are not the police, so they are not able to carry out investigations into people in 
the way Mrs Z might like. And they only keep data for so long and are required to dispose of 
old data, so the available information is much more limited after so much time. And again, 
Mrs Z disputed the payments too far after the 13-month deadline for Lloyds to investigate.
So while I know this wont be the answer Mrs Z was hoping for, I dont think there is really 
anything more for Lloyds to do in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman