DRN-3023447
The complaint
Miss L complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) changed her account from a graduate 
account to a current account without telling her which resulted her incurring overdraft 
charges.
 
What happened
Miss L had a student account with Santander which changed to a graduate account when 
she finished her studies in 2018. The 1/2/3 Graduate Current Account gave her an interest 
free overdraft of £500.
Miss L had understood that the graduate account would last for three years after graduation, 
but after two years, in July 2020, Santander changed it to an Everyday Current Account, 
which incurred overdraft charges, and they began charging her for the facility. 
Miss L rang Santander in 2020 about her overdraft and was told that her graduate account 
had expired. She was surprised as she thought it would last for three years. The call handler 
also thought that was the case and advised Miss L to take her student certificates into a 
branch they would sort it out. This information was incorrect, and Miss L was subsequently 
advised that her graduate account had correctly expired after two years. 
Miss L complained to Santander about the expiry of her graduate account. They issued their 
final response in September 2020 in which they said that in May 2017 they had given notice 
of a change to their account terms and conditions, which was that for those graduating after 
26 June 2017, the 1/2/3 Graduate Current Account would only be available for two years 
following graduation. They said that they would have sent Miss L the new terms and 
conditions at the time that the account moved to a graduate account in 2018. Although they 
were unable to offer an extension to the interest free overdraft, they accepted that she had 
been given incorrect information over the phone and waived two months worth of fees of 
£85.95 and also awarded £75 by way of an apology. Miss L was unhappy with this as she 
wanted reinstatement of her interest free overdraft for the additional year, and so she 
brought her complaint to us.  
Our investigator looked into Miss Ls complaint. She thought that Santander had acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and that the offer made to her was 
fair.   
Miss L has asked for an ombudsmans decision and so it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
I have looked at the information that was provided to Miss L at the time of opening her 
student account and also at the time it was changed to a graduate account.  
The Key Facts Document for the 1/2/3 Student Current Account which was provided to Miss 
L when she opened her student account says that unless a different facility is agreed at the 
end of her course, your 1/2/3/Student Account will automatically be transferred to our 1/2/3 
Graduate Current Account and the Specific Conditions for the 1/2/3 Graduate Current 
Account will apply. It doesnt specifically say that a three-year overdraft is available, 
although at the time Miss L took her student account out, I understand that the graduate 
account did have a three year overdraft facility.   
I think the above information makes it clear that whatever the terms and conditions of the 
graduate account are at the time of the transfer, those will apply. 
So, I then looked at what the conditions of the graduate account were in 2018, at the time 
that Miss L graduated. In 2017 Santander had changed the terms and conditions of the 1/2/3 
Graduate Current Account and reduced the availability of the account to two years following 
graduation.
 
The Key Facts Document for the graduate account from 4 April 2018 state, For any 1/2/3 
Graduate Current Account opened on or after 26 June 2017, the account will last up to 2 
years before it automatically transfers to an appropriate current account. If your 1/2/3 
Graduate Current Account was opened prior to this date, it will last up to 3 years.. 
Again, I think this information is clear that the account is only available for two years. 
Santander say this Key Information Document was sent to Miss L when the account was 
transferred to the graduate account in 2018.  I appreciate that Miss L says she didnt receive 
this information, and also that at the time she opened her student account in 2015 the terms 
and conditions were different, but Santander are entitled to change the terms and conditions 
of an account provided that they give sufficient notice to the customer. They have told us 
that they sent the new terms and conditions when Miss Ls account was opened in 2018, 
and they were also available online. Although they can no longer provide the records to 
show that information was sent due to the passage of time, I have no reason to think that 
they didnt send them.  
 
I therefore cant fairly say that Santander have done anything wrong in changing Miss Ls 
account to an Everyday Current Account two years after graduation. 
I can see that Miss L was given incorrect information on the phone when she rang up about 
her overdraft. I appreciate that this will have been frustrating, especially at a time when she 
was experiencing financial worries due to the pandemic, but I think that Santanders offer to 
waive the fees for two months and pay £75 for the incorrect telephone advice is a fair offer. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint about 
Santander UK Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman