DRN-2543632
The complaint
Mr C complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with an international transaction paid 
into his account.
What happened
Mr C says he tried to transfer money into his account on 12 March 2020 and agreed an 
exchange rate. He says there was a delay in processing the transaction and so he attended 
a branch on 20 March 2020. Mr C says the exchange rate had changed in his favour and 
was told by HSBC that it would authorise the transaction at that days exchange rate. He 
says he later found out the rate used was that of 12 March 2020 and says that mistake 
resulted in a loss of over £7,680.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake by telling Mr C that it would use the 20 March 2020 rate 
and has apologised as well as paying £100 compensation. It says Mr C agreed the 
transaction on 12 March 2020 and the exchange rate. HSBC says the transaction could not 
have been cancelled as per the agreement terms and conditions and it held the transaction 
back for security reasons.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation was fair and 
reasonable and didnt think it fair to tell HSBC to honour a mistake. The investigator thought 
the transaction could not have been cancelled.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says there was a legally binding contract and would like 
his loss paid for by HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied Mr C asked HSBC to transfer the money into his account and that he agreed the 
exchange rate of that day. I appreciate the transaction was delayed for security reasons, but 
I dont think HSBC made a mistake by doing so and Im sure Mr C accepts that transactions 
like this can be subject to further checks. I find that if the transaction had been processed on 
12 March 2020 then Mr C would not have made a complaint and would not have suffered 
any actual or possible loss.
There is no dispute here that when Mr C attended a HSBC branch, he was given incorrect 
information about the exchange rate. But Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for 
the incorrect information and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation 
amount. I dont think Mr C, for the reasons I will explain suffered any financial loss, and I 
dont think he suffered any significant distress and inconvenience.
I have looked at Mr Cs account terms and conditions and Im satisfied that they make clear 
that a transaction couldnt have been cancelled and so I dont think Mr C ever could have 
cancelled his transaction and taken advantage of more favourable exchange rates. I also 
think that even if HSBC had allowed a cancellation that Mr C would have been liable for an 
exchange rate loss as HSBC would have needed to sell the currency and would have done 
so at a different rate to it buying rate.
So, it follows that I dont think Mr C even if he had had been given the correct information 
could have cancelled the transaction or taken advantage of the later exchange rate. I dont 
think HSBCs mistake amounted to, as Mr C says, a legally binding contract and think in any 
event it would be for a court to determine that. I also dont think Mr C suffered any loss here 
as he never had the money in the first place.
Overall, I find that HSBC has paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation and I cant 
fairly order it to pay Mr C any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman