DRN-2818122
The complaint
Mr D complains about RAC Insurance Limiteds refusal to pay for his claim after his car 
suffered two punctures.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ds breakdown policy provides tyre replacement cover with a limit of £150 per 
tyre. However, this section of cover only applies to a specific vehicle declared to RAC 
when the policy was taken out. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ds policy schedule, and this 
shows the tyre replacement cover didnt apply to the car hes claimed for. This means 
Mr D was never entitled to have RAC cover the costs of replacing the punctured tyres 
of the car this complaint concerns.
I would have expected RAC to have identified Mr D wasnt able to claim under this 
section of cover when he first contacted them about his punctures. However, they 
didnt do this, and their mistake led Mr D to believe RAC could do more for him than 
they could. So, I can understand why Mr D was frustrated when he later found out he 
wouldnt be reimbursed for the cost of his new tyres.
I cant agree RAC should cover the full cost of Mr Ds new tyres because he was 
never entitled to this under his policy. So, even if RAC hadnt made a mistake, he 
always would have needed to pay for new tyres. However, RAC has acknowledged 
their mistake and offered to reimburse 50% of the cost of Mr Ds new tyres. I consider 
this offer fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr D experienced while trying to work with 
RAC, over several hours, to find somewhere to replace his tyres when he believed he 
was covered. It also acknowledges the disappointment he experienced when he later 
found out his claim wasnt covered. So, I wont be asking RAC to increase this offer.
Im aware Mr D also had to take time off work following his punctures and would like 
to be reimbursed for his loss of wages. I understand it would have been concerning 
and frustrating for Mr D to miss work. However, experiencing a breakdown comes 
with inevitable inconveniences. And given the fact Mr D was far away from home 
when his tyres were punctured, I cant safely say he would have been able to make it 
back in time for work if RAC hadnt made their mistake. In fact, while there were 
problems finding somewhere to replace Mr Ds tyres, he did still benefit from RACs 
support, during this time which may not have happened had they realised sooner he 
wasnt covered.
I know this outcome will be disappointing for Mr D. But, considering the above, I wont be 
asking RAC to do anything further to put things right.
RAC has confirmed their offer to reimburse 50% of the costs still stands. So, if Mr D would 
like this, he should contact them to arrange payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman