DRN-2060149
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nucleus Financial Services Ltd doesnt accept cash payments directly 
from him for the charges it levies on the investments he holds on its platform. As a result it is 
selling his assets to cover the charges without his permission.
What happened
Mr C joined Nucleus through his financial adviser in 2011. Towards the end of 2017, Mr Cs 
financial adviser was taken over by a different firm, which Ill call A. A sent Mr C new terms 
and conditions to sign and complete  Mr C disputes receiving these documents, and 
therefore never signed these new terms.  
In February 2019 Mr C sent a payment of £250 to Nucleus in order to avoid Nucleus selling 
some of his investments when the cash balance in his account fell below 0.17% of the 
account value. Nucleus had this policy in place in order to ensure there was always sufficient 
cash to cover any fees. 
Nucleus has explained that it does not accept top-ups directly from consumers  these need 
to be made through an adviser. So when it received Mr Cs £250, it contacted A and asked it 
to complete an application in order for the payment to be credited to Mr Cs account. 
However, as Mr C hadnt signed any updated terms or provided A with any authority, it was 
unable to do what Nucleus asked. So Nucleus returned the £250 to Mr C. Shortly after, it 
proceeded to sell some of his Mr Cs investments to ensure there was sufficient cash in the 
account to pay the fees that were due. 
Mr C complained to A and to Nucleus. Nucleus considered Mr Cs complaint, but concluded 
it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint, but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He considered that Nucleuss terms made it clear that the majority of its services are 
provided to advisers  not to consumers directly. Where a consumer no longer has an 
adviser, Nucleus provides a limited service which includes monitoring the account, placing 
trades or withdrawing any funds  but crucially it doesnt allow consumers who arent being 
represented by a financial adviser to open an account, transfer in from elsewhere or to top 
the account up with cash. This means that when Mr C sent Nucleus a cheque for £250 
without instructions from an adviser, Nucleus couldnt accept the payment without breaching 
its own terms. 
In addition, the investigator found the terms also explained the possibility of holdings being 
sold to cover any fees  he considered it was fair and reasonable for Nucleus to rely on that 
term in Mr Cs case. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said:
His former advisor told him that Nucleus had changed its terms and conditions in 
2018 and that was why it had started to sell his assets and refuse his cash payments. 
He said he hadnt been informed of such a change and didnt agree to it. 
Whilst Nucleus doesnt allow customers to fully use its platform without advisor 
support, he had no wish to use it in that way or to trade. He simply wanted to 
continue holding his assets on it and pay the required fees for that to happen. 
His original agreement in 2011 said that he accepted Nucleus would normally 
correspond with his advisor. But as he no longer had an advisor, the situation was 
not normal and therefore Nucleus ought to have corresponded with him directly to resolve the issue. Mr C said he never signed a document to the effect that Nucleus 
would never deal with him directly. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im afraid I have very little to add to what the investigator 
has already told him. I understand that Mr C considers Nucleuss terms unreasonable in 
relation to not accepting top-ups directly from consumers and negligent when selecting 
funds to be sold to cover the cash balance without consulting him. 
I should say firstly that Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account, and Im 
satisfied they give Nucleus the right to sell assets in order to ensure that the account has the 
minimum cash balance required. I dont think the terms are ambiguous. I also think they 
clearly stipulate that a certain level of cash is required at all times in the account. 
And based on Mr Cs own timeline of events, its clear to me that he was aware of this from 
September 2017. He has explained that in September 2017 he had still not received the 
paperwork from A about transferring over, and Nucleus had begun selling an arbitrary 
selection of his assets as the cash in his account had fallen below the required level. Mr C 
says that in January 2018 he asked Nucleus if he could set up a direct debit to top up his 
account, and he says Nucleus referred him to A  but he never received a reply from A. He 
said that if he had been told at that point that all top-ups needed to go through his adviser, 
the subsequent dispute would not have arisen. Im not sure if Mr C means he wouldve 
gone somewhere else, or if he means he wouldve signed the required documents to appoint 
A as his adviser. 
But either way, I think at this point Mr C had enough information to know that he would not 
be able to add cash to his account on his own  and if he didnt, he also knew what Nucleus 
would do. I say this because while I appreciate Mr Cs point of view, it was his (and 
potentially his advisers) responsibility to understand the terms of his account with Nucleus.
When in February 2019 Nucleus received Mr Cs £250, it followed its process by contacting 
A  as that payment needed to come through it and, as far as Nucleus was concerned, A 
was the last firm it had on its file as Mr Cs adviser. However, as Mr C hadnt signed the 
relevant terms of service with A, it wasnt in fact acting on his instructions, and therefore the 
payment was returned to Mr C. Shortly after, Nucleus proceeded to sell some of his assets 
to generate the required cash. 
Im not persuaded theres more Nucleus couldve done at this point. As Ive said above, Im 
satisfied Nucleuss terms were clear about the requirement for a certain amount of cash in 
the account, and the consequences of having insufficient cash. And in my view, it was 
Mr Cs responsibility to ensure he either had an adviser representing him, or to decide to 
move to a different provider should he no longer wish to have one acting on his behalf. 
Whilst I acknowledge why Mr C doesnt agree with Nucleuss policy around this, nor does he 
agree that he should be required to have an adviser, its not my role to set Nucleuss policy 
or to tell it who it should do business with. Nucleus has clearly, and I think consistently, 
explained that it is an adviser-centric platform and so consumers have a restricted ability to 
manage their account without one. Crucially, the ability to withdraw money or to transfer to a 
different provider isnt restricted  so if Mr C was unhappy with this arrangement, hes had ample opportunity to find an alternative provider. 
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C. But for all these 
reasons, Im satisfied he hasnt been treated unfairly and theres nothing further that Nucleus 
needs to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman